Q4 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Thank you for standing by. My name is Jual and I will be your conference operator today. At this
time I would like to welcome everyone to the Mettler-Toledo Fourth Quarter 2024 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers'
remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions)
I would now like to turn the conference over to `Adam Uhlman, Head of Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations. You
may begin.
`Adam Uhlman, Head of Investor Relations `
Hey, thanks, Jual, and good morning, everybody. Thanks for joining us this morning. On the call
with me today is `Patrick Kaltenbach, Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Executive Officer, and `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer, our Chief
Financial Officer.
Let me cover some administrative matters. This call is being webcast and is available for replay
on our website at mt.com. A copy of the press release and the presentation that we will refer to
today is available on our website. This call will include forward-looking statements within the
meaning of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 and the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These
statements involve risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results,
financial condition, performance, and achievements to be materially different from those
expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements.
For a discussion of these risks and uncertainties, please see our annual report on Form 10-K and
quarterly and current reports filed with the SEC. The company disclaims any obligation or
undertaking to provide any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements except as
required by law.On today's call, we may use non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP
financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is provided in the 8-K and is
available on our website.
Let me now turn the call over to Patrick.
`Patrick Kaltenbach, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Adam, and good morning, everyone. We appreciate you joining our call today. Last night,
we reported our fourth quarter financial results, the details of which are outlined for you on Page
3 of our presentation. We had a strong finish to the year and we capitalized on very good
customer demand for Laboratory products, especially in Europe.
Strong sales growth and solid execution of our margin improvement initiatives contributed to
excellent adjusted EPS and cash flow. Reflecting on our achievements in 2024, we delivered good
results despite soft market conditions and continue to benefit from our strong culture of
execution and continuous improvement. At the same time, we stay focused on our long-term
strategy of delivering innovative solutions and extending our market leadership.
Looking ahead, driving growth is our top priority in 2025, and we will continue to build on our
competitive strength and take advantage of opportunities in automation, digitalization, and high-
growth areas to further expand our market share and deliver good earnings growth.
Let me now turn the call over to Shawn to cover the financial results and our guidance, and then I
will come back with some additional commentary on the business and our outlook. Shawn?
`Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Patrick, and good morning, everyone. Sales in the quarter were $1.045 billion, which
represented an increase in local currency and in U.S. dollars of 12%. On Slide number 4, we show
sales growth by region. Local currency sales grew 7 % in the Americas, 19% in Europe, and grew
14% in Asia/Rest of the World. Local currency sales increased 4% in China in the quarter. Excluding
the impact of shipping delays in the fourth quarter of 2023, local currency sales grew 6%,
including 3% in the Americas, 8% growth in Europe, and 10% in Asia/Rest of the World, including
2% growth in China.
On Slide number 5, we show sales growth by region for the full-year 2024. Local currency sales
increased 3%, with 3% growth in the Americas, 8% growth in Europe, and a 1% decline in
Asia/Rest of the World. Local currency sales decreased 11% in China for the full year. Excluding the
impact of shipping delays, local currency sales in 2024 were flat, including 1% growth in the
Americas, 2% in Europe, and a 3% decline in Asia/Rest of the World, including a 12% decline in
China.
On Slide number 6, we summarize local currency sales growth by product area. For the quarter,
Laboratory sales increased 18%, and Industrial grew 8%, with core Industrial up 5%, and product
inspection up 12%. Food Retail declined 14% in the quarter. Excluding the impact of the shipping
delays, we estimate our Laboratory sales grew 10%, Industrial grew 5%, with core Industrial up 1%,
and product inspection up 12%, and Food Retail declined 21%. Service sales increased 8% in local
currency in the fourth quarter.
The next slide shows local currency sales growth by product area for the full year, 2024.
Laboratory sales increased 6%, and Industrial increased 1%, with core Industrial down 1%, and
product inspection up 4%. Food Retail decreased 14%. Excluding the impact of the shippingdown 3%, and product inspection up 4%. And Food Retail declined 17%. Service sales increased
7% in local currency for the full year.
Let me now move to the rest of the P&L, which is summarized on Slide number 8. Gross margin
was 61.2% in the quarter, an increase of 220 basis points due to higher volume, positive price
realization, and benefits from our productivity initiatives. R&D amounted to $50.1 million in the
quarter, which is a 7% increase in local currency over the prior period. SG&A amounted to $237.3
million, a 6% increase in local currency over the prior year, and includes higher variable
compensation. Adjusted operating profit amounted to $351.9 million in the quarter, up 25% from
the prior year. Adjusted operating margin was 33.7%, which represents an increase of 360 basis
points over the prior year. A couple of final comments on the P&L.
Amortization amounted to $18.2 million in the quarter. Interest expense was $17.9 million, and
adjusted other income amounted to $1.1 million. Our effective tax rate was 19% in the quarter. This
rate is before discrete items and is adjusted for the timing of stock option exercises. Fully diluted
shares amounted to 21.1 million, which is approximately a 3% decline from the prior year. Adjusted
EPS for the quarter was $12.41, a 32% increase over the prior year. On a reported basis in the
quarter, EPS was $11.96, as compared to $8.52 in the prior year. Reported EPS in the quarter
included $0.24 of purchased intangible amortization, $0.09 of restructuring and other costs, and a
$0.12 headwind from the timing of stock option exercises.
The next slide illustrates our full-year 2024 results. Local currency sales grew 3%. Adjusted
operating income increased 4%, or 6%, excluding unfavorable foreign currency. And our adjusted
operating margin grew 60 basis points. Adjusted EPS grew 8% for the full year and grew 10%,
excluding unfavorable currency. That covers the P&L. And let me now comment on adjusted free
cash flow, which amounted to $900.6 million in 2024, a 2% increase on a per share basis from
2023, and just over 100% of adjusted net income. DSO was 36 days, while ITO was 4.2x.
Let me now turn to our guidance for the first quarter and for the full year 2025. As you review our
guidance, please keep in mind the following factors. First, uncertainty remains across many of our
core markets in the global economy. Geopolitical tensions remain elevated and include the
potential for new tariffs that we have not factored into our guidance. Secondly, we expect market
conditions to gradually improve throughout 2025. We also expect to continue to benefit from
customer trends in automation, digitalization, and on and nearshoring. Third, we assume foreign
currency at current rates, which is a headwind to sales, and adjusted EPS growth of approximately
2% for the quarter and year.
Finally, please keep in mind that our third-party logistics provider delays negatively impacted our
Q4 2023 results by approximately $58 million, nearly all of which was recovered in our Q1 2024
results. This will be a headwind to our Q1 2025 sales growth of approximately 6% and will
negatively impact our year-over-year operating margin change by approximately 260 basis points
and adjusted EPS growth by approximately 18%. For the full year, this will reduce our sales growth
by 1.5% and is a headwind to operating margin expansion of approximately 60 basis points and a
headwind to adjusted EPS growth of approximately 4%.
Now turning to our guidance, for the first quarter of 2025, we expect local currency sales to
decline by approximately 3% to 4%, representing growth of 2% to 3%, excluding the prior year
shipping delays. Operating margin is expected to decline 220 basis points at the midpoint of our
range or growth of 30 basis points, excluding the shipping delays. We expect adjusted EPS to be
in the range of $7.75 to $7.95, down 11% to 13%, or a growth rate of 7% to 9%, excluding the
shipping delays and unfavorable foreign currency.For the full year 2025, our local currency sales growth forecast is unchanged at approximately 3%
or up 4.5%, excluding the shipping delays. Operating margin is forecast to be flattish at the
midpoint of our range or up approximately 60 basis points, excluding the shipping delay. We
expect full-year adjusted EPS to be in the range of $42.35 to $43, up $0.50 from our prior range,
which reflects EPS growth of 3% to 5% or 9% to 10%, excluding the shipping delays and
unfavorable currency.
Lastly, I would like to share a few other details on our 2025 guidance to help you as you update
your models. We expect total amortization, including purchased intangible amortization, to be
approximately $73 million. Purchased intangible amortization is excluded from adjusted EPS and is
estimated at $25 million on a pre-tax basis or $0.93 per share. Interest expense is forecast at $74
million for the year, down from our prior forecast due to lower interest rates on our revolver and
our strong free cash flow in 2024.
Other income is estimated at approximately $7 million. We expect our tax rate before discrete
items will remain at 19% in 2025. Free cash flow is still expected to be approximately $860 million
in 2025, and share repurchases are expected to be approximately $875 million. That's it from my
side, and I'll now turn it back to Patrick.
`Patrick Kaltenbach, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Shawn. Let me start with some comments on our operating businesses, which will
exclude the impact from last year's shipping delays. I will start with Lab, which had a very strong
performance in the quarter. We had excellent growth across most of the portfolio, including very
strong growth across Process Analytics and Analytical Instruments, especially with pharma and
biopharma customers. We continue to receive very positive feedback from the market on our
innovative portfolio and on our service solutions, which we believe is contributing to market share
gains.
Shifting now to our Industrial business, our underlying sales growth was led by our product
inspection business, which has gained momentum as the year unfolded. Our growth initiatives
and new products targeting the mid-market are delivering market share gains, and we have also
benefited from growing adoption of x-ray inspection technology as customers look to increase
product safety by detecting a wider range of physical contaminants. Our X2 X-ray platform has
allowed us to offer differentiated solutions at attractive price points across a wide range of
applications, and also provides valuable features that simplify maintenance and cleaning.
The strong wins we have had with our X-ray platform are helping mitigate weak underlying
demand from the food manufacturing industry, which continues to face challenges and longer
investment cycles.
Switching over to our core Industrial business, our underlying sales growth this quarter was
modest as market headwinds persisted, especially in China. While customer demand in some
market segments like pharma and biopharma have improved recently, general industry and
chemical sector have remained soft. Lastly, Food Retail declined against very significant project-
related growth in the prior year.
Now let me make some additional comments by geography, which will also exclude the impact of
last year's shipping delay. Starting in the Americas, our underlying sales growth was led by our
Process Analytics business that continues to benefit from recovery in bioprocessing. And we also
had good growth in our Laboratory products and our product inspection business. This growth
was offset by a significant decline in Food Retail, following very large project-related growth in theNow shifting to Europe, we had excellent underlying sales growth this quarter that included very
strong growth across both Laboratory and core Industrial. Our pharma and biopharma customers
have led our growth over the past year, as we have benefited from our innovative portfolio and
our unique direct sales and marketing strategies.
And finally, our Asia/Rest of the World results were also better than expected, with strong results
throughout the region outside of China. We have significant growth opportunities across the Asia
Pacific region and have accelerated growth plans in various countries such as Japan and India to
expand our market share. Our results in China were in line with our expectations with modest
underlying growth, as improved Lab demand was partially offset by weaker industrial sales.
Market conditions in China remain subdued, and we expect low single-digit growth in 2025. As
we have mentioned in the past, trends in China can change quickly, and our team remains
focused on taking advantage of growth opportunities.
In summary, again, we are very pleased with the successful close to 2024, and we are optimistic
that market conditions will gradually improve as we move throughout 2025, and many important
growth investments we have made in the recent years have further enhanced our market
leadership and will support above market growth and margin expansion well into the future.
As we enter 2025, we will remain focused on implementing our new strategies and techniques
with Spinnaker 6, which include big data analytics efforts for our lead generation and sales force
guidance programs, and new digital solutions that enhance our customer experience. We will also
make further progress with our Blue Ocean program, which is a critical backbone for many of our
corporate programs such as Spinnaker and SternDrive.
Blue Ocean is our global process harmonization initiative built on a single instance of SAP, and it
provides us valuable real-time business intelligence insights that allow us to react quickly to
changes in the business and operating environment.
We are also very pleased with the growth in service sales over the past year, and our team is
focused on continuing to drive strong growth over the coming years. We are making important
investments to support our service growth initiatives, which includes additional resources to help
us address a larger proportion of our installed base that we do not service today. We also have
dedicated initiatives underway to help increase our sales of service contracts at the point of new
instrument sale.
We will also continue to sustain important investments in innovation over the coming year.
Innovation empowers our customers to generate new insights, improve and digitalize their
workflows, and make their results more precise and reliable. Innovation is an important -- is also
important as it helps stimulate replacement cycles, support our market share gains, and enhance
our value proposition that reinforces our pricing. Over the past several years, we have launched
many important enhancements to our portfolio, and we will have many exciting innovations to be
introduced over the coming years as well.
Now, lastly, in 2025, we will look to capture additional benefits from new tools in our SternDrive
program, which aims to drive operational excellence in our manufacturing facilities and our global
supply chain. As a reminder, we are on the third wave of SternDrive, which is focused on smart
automation and digitalization technologies to drive productivity and capture material cost savings.
The Mettler-Toledo franchise is stronger than ever, and we remain focused on the things that we
can control through the different execution of our initiatives -- sorry, through the diligentexecution of our initiatives. We are well-positioned and continue to implement strategies with a
good balance of initiatives focused on growth, innovation, and operational excellence.
This concludes our prepared remarks. Operator, I'd now like to open the line to questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. The floor is now open for questions. (Operator Instructions) Your first question comes
from the line of `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI of Evercore. Your line is open.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI `
Hi, guys. Good morning, and thank you for taking my question. Congrats on a nice print here.
Patrick, maybe my first one on, if you look at the Q4 performance here, headline 12%, excluding
the shipping comp, the underlying is 6%. Wouldn't that imply like if that's your exit rate, shouldn't
your underlying be in that mid-single digit rate for Q1, was there any one-offs in Q4 in the sense
that customers pre-buy ahead of a potential tariff in geopolitical risks?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, Chief Executive Officer `
Hey, thanks, Vijay, and good morning. That's a very good question. Of course, we are extremely
proud of our strong finish to 2024 and a strong Q4. As you said, 6% underlying growth, if you
exclude the shipping delays, has been a very strong result. It has been especially strong in Lab, as
we said, and in Europe, but also across the entire portfolio, we have been really, really pleased
with the results.
Now looking at what drives the growth, I think a lot of that is driven by, of course, a lot of
innovation that we pushed in the market last year, I mean, customer CV, the strength of our
portfolio. We probably have seen a little bit of a budget flush in Europe. It's always hard to
quantify that, but if we have indications of what contributed to a higher growth than we potentially
would have expected, there was probably a bit of a budget flush in Europe.
Regarding your point whether there had been pull-ins because of the tariffs, so we have actually
no real indications that triggered the strong results. I think it's more really our really exceptional
portfolio that we have out there, our strong go-to-market strategies, being close to customers
when they have been ready to spend money. And as I said, in Europe, specifically, we had, I would
say, some releases of budget flush that we have not seen the year before.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, I think, too, Vijay, if you kind of look at the sequentials, we feel like it makes sense. If you look
at kind of like a longer-term CAGR for Q1, we also think it makes sense. And we still kind of stand
by the comments we made last quarter where we do expect the beginning of the year in 2025 to
start off a little bit slower and then things gradually improve throughout the year. With all the
different uncertainties in the world, we wouldn't be surprised if our end markets start off a little
bit more cautiously this year.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI `Understood. And that sort of segues into my follow-up on the macro-geopolitical situation. I know
the guide isn't contemplating, any risk in China for low single growth. Maybe if you can talk about,
what is your competitive landscape in China? Do you have local competition? And how should we
think about potential risks related to China? I know one of your peers was put on a list. Is there
any risk for that spreading broader to life science companies?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Vijay, look, we have been in China for over 30 years and there always has been local
competition, right? And we have a very strong team in China, R&D team, manufacturing team,
very strong sales team. I think we are competing very effectively in China. We also have a very
broad portfolio that you couldn't point to one single competitor that we are competing against.
It's really a very fragmented space across Lab and Industrial and product inspection. Again, none
of the competitors, none of the competitors would have the same portfolio we have.
And again, since we are manufacturing in China and sourcing in China's products and R&D teams
actually are developing also solutions in China for China. I mean, I would say there's I would never
say there's no risk, but I would say there's probably a more limited risk for a company like ours
who has been in China and is serving the local market with local solutions.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. As Patrick says, we clearly benefit from our diversity there as well too.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI `
Understood. Thank you, guys.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Arias of Stifel. Your line is open.
Q - `Daniel Arias, Stifel Nicolaus and Company, Inc. `
Hey, good morning, guys. Thanks for the questions. Shawn, on the Industrial business there and
following up on those comments, is there any change in the way that you're feeling about
Industrial this year? I mean, to Patrick's point, it does seem like there's some good overall
momentum in product inspection. I think you have been picking low singles for both core Industrial
and PI, if I remember correctly.
So, is it fair to assume that that's still the view or you may be tracking a little bit differently at this
point?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, I mean, we're -- in terms of guidance, we're still a little more cautious on the core Industrial
side. If we look at, the different businesses, we were very pleased with the quarter overall, but
clearly, in terms of core Industrial, there's still some more challenges in that marketplace,
especially when you peel it back and look at, our Chinese business as an example.
But for Product Inspection, we were extremely pleased with the quarter, certainly better than
what we expected, with 12% growth in the quarter, and then as we kind of like look towards the
full year here, we're still thinking like mid-single digit, but we -- for Product Inspection, but we
expect to get off to a better start in that business. I think some of the momentum in ProductInspection will carry forward into the first quarter and we'd expect to be more like high single digit
in that business in Q1.
And when you kind of like look at that business, it's kind of interesting because the end markets
are challenged, but we are also competing really well. The new products that we've talked a lot
about, even in the prepared remarks, are being really well received by the marketplace and our
teams are executing really well.
Q - `Daniel Arias, Stifel Nicolaus and Company, Inc. `
Yes, okay. And then maybe just sort of a similar idea on Lab. I just want to understand the
assumptions on biopharma, which looks like it's gradually recovering here. So on the low to mid-
singles growth that you had penciled in for that business, is the simple way to think about it just
that low singles is modest improvement and mid-singles is better improvement? Or was there
not a lot that was baked in? I mean, Patrick, last quarter, you had expressed some optimism
there, but it was early, so I wasn't sure whether that was translating to the outlook. We just love to
sort of get your view there at this point as we're a couple of months into the year, at least a
month and a half in the year.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, I mean, for Labs -- so for Labs, for the year for '25, I mean, of course, we had a very strong
quarter. I can let Patrick comment when I finish, but I mean, it was very broad throughout the
portfolio, but when you kind of look at certain categories like analytical instruments did
exceptionally well, Process Analytics did extremely well, so it was just really nice to see some of
the trends that we saw in Q3, kind of carrying into Q4 with, I'd say, even somewhat better results.
And Patrick kind of talked about it already, like a bit of a budget flush in Europe, which was
certainly more than what we were expecting. As we kind of look at the full year for 2025, our
guidance is, I think, similar to last time. On a reported basis, up low to mid-single digit for Lab, but
for excluding this shipping delay effect, we would be up mid to high single digit. But similar to my
comment before about, the sequencing of the year, we do expect things to start off a little bit
more moderate in the first quarter. On a reported basis, we would expect our Lab business to be
down low single digit, but then excluding the shipping delay, we'd expect to be up mid-single
digit.
Q - `Daniel Arias, Stifel Nicolaus and Company, Inc. `
Okay. And Shawn, just to maybe drive home the point, so there is some level of improvement
that you have assumed in the biopharma environment, so to speak, that kind of underpinned that
growth rate that you're talking about there?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, I mean, the guidance hasn't changed, but for biopharma, like particularly bioprocessing, we
certainly saw market conditions improving in the fourth quarter. But keep in mind, our guidance
for '25 was always that things would gradually improve throughout the year in 2025.
But certainly, yes, we saw some affirmation in the fourth quarter. Maybe the one thing that still
hasn't come back yet is maybe the other part of biopharma, which is the biotech side. We're still
seeing, mixed conditions when it comes to liquid handling, pipettes, and small biotech. So,
Q - `Daniel Arias, Stifel Nicolaus and Company, Inc. `Yes. Okay, very good. Thank you, guys.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Jack Meehan, Nephron Research of Nephron Research. Your line is open.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Nephron Research `
Thank you, and good morning. First question is on the core Industrial piece of the business. I was
just curious what your latest take is on some of the macro factors. You saw the PMI go over 50 for
the first time in a while on Monday for the U.S. I was curious if you feel like there's a little bit more
wind in the sails entering the year potential for that business to improve.
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, good morning, Jack. A really good question. Look, with core Industrial, I mean, as we also
said in the past, we are not directly linking that to PMIs. I mean, a lot of our products go into
automation and digitalization efforts across many industries. When you look at our projected
growth for industry, and Shawn can give you a breakdown afterwards. I mean a lot of that is
depending also on the fact that a big part of the business in comparison also to the growth we
have seen in China in the past years which is now still slow.
The investment on the industrial side in China particularly is still subdued. We don't see the
momentum to have been, we had strong growth in, for example, the battery segment before,
which is now definitely there's not the same demand, so these customers are not invested in the
same area.
So, I would say don't link it directly to the PMIs. Of course, I mean, we are counting on the fact
that our customers and there is strong interest in our digitalization automation solutions that will
continue, but it's not forecast to grow at the same rate as Lab or Product Inspection in 2025.
Shawn, do you want to break it down in terms of the growth rate?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, I mean in terms of, how we're thinking for the full year for, I think we might have mentioned it
already, but the core Industrial, we were expecting low single-digit growth for the full year in 2025
on a reported and adjusted basis. And, as Patrick says, that business, we've kind of estimated
and talked in the past about 60% of that business is a combination of pharma, food, and
chemical, which for us is largely specialty chem. So, and then you have like these hooks into
automation and digitalization.
But, certainly the economy, we're not immune to it and when it's up, it certainly doesn't hurt. And
so, but at the same time, I think there is an element of, how do customers respond to some of
the uncertainty in the world right now and, and that kind of maybe fits into the pacing of the year
a little bit. But nonetheless, it was nice to see above 50 PMIs for the first time in a while.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Nephron Research `
Yes, agreed. And then just one housekeeping one, the raise to the 2025 EPS forecast, is that just
a function of 4Q coming in a little bit better or were there any other changes to the assumptions
that drove that?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `Yes, so I mean, a lot of it was the beat in Q4, but then we had kind of like two things kind of not
offsetting, but kind of going in opposite directions. On one hand, we had a lot of negative foreign
currency since the last time we reported. I think everybody has certainly seen the strengthening
of the dollar, but , with our exposure, we're also sensitive to the strengthening of the Swiss franc
versus the euro. And, as a reminder, every 1% change there is like about a $2.5 million hit or
increase to operating profit or change in operating profit.
And then we have a similar sized exposure with the renminbi, Chinese renminbi versus the dollar.
So every 1% change there has like about a 2.5% -- $2.5 million or so impact to operating profit.
But then kind of going the other way is we had a couple of benefits kind of below operating
profit. We had, when you kind of have a chance to update your model, you'll see that interest
expense came down a little bit, benefiting from a little bit lower interest rates and the strong
cash flow we had in the fourth quarter. And then other income benefited a little bit just from
updating like actuarial assumptions with pensions and things like that.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Nephron Research `
Sounds good. Thanks, Shawn.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, you're welcome.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Sykes of Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
Q - `Matthew Sykes, Goldman Sachs `
Hi, good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. I just want to go back to the strength that you
cited in Europe, particularly in Lab. I know you mentioned there was some element of a budget
flush there, but can we extrapolate sort of that improving demand among that customer
segment in Europe into other developed market regions like the U.S.? I mean, does this
encourage kind of your view as to what Lab globally could do, maybe ex-China could do?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, look, for me, it's first and foremost an encouragement of how well our portfolio is received
by the market. And we have spent a lot of focus on driving innovation to the markets. We spent a
lot of growth initiative money over the last few years. We launched a lot of new platforms, and
those resonate really well. And I think probably in Europe, we have maybe in some areas, maybe
a quarter launch advantage of that. But I'm definitely positive that what we have seen in Europe,
people will hopefully also see in the U.S.
That strong uptick of the market. And then remember, there's a lot of our business is a
replacement business. And these newly launched products will also help trigger replacement
cycles. So yes, I'm actually positive seeing that we compete so well in a very difficult environment
like Europe. This is sort of how the economy in Europe is doing at the moment.
But our growth rates are really speaking to the strength of both our platform, but also go-to-
market strategies. We really go very quickly to the growth initiatives that we're seeing out there.
Our sales force guidance works extremely well. And I'm confident that if the market uncertaintymaintains reasonable in the U.S., then we will also see hopefully better momentum as the U.S.,
evolves.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, Matthew. And when you look at the fourth quarter, I mean, Europe did better than the U.S.,
but the U.S. still did very well also. Even if you exclude the shipping delay effect, I think we're up
high single digit. And by the way, China did very well in Lab as well, too. They were up high teens.
And so kind of as expected, Lab was going to have a much better quarter than industrial in China.
So Lab globally was good, but Europe was clearly the leader. Yes.
Q - `Matthew Sykes, Goldman Sachs `
Got it. Thank you. And just going back to tariffs for a second, just specifically on Mexico, I know
there's been a delay in that. But you do have a manufacturing footprint there. Could you maybe
remind us what your exposure is in terms of revenue shipped out of Mexico? And then you've
often been very flexible in your manufacturing footprint. If these tariffs were to go through, like
what would be the duration and what would be the decision behind maybe flexing that
manufacturing to another region? And what is your capability of doing that?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Maybe I'll start if Patrick wants to comment. So maybe I'll back up a little bit, Matthew, too. Just to
be clear, we've built in the recent tariff on the incremental 10% in China into our guidance. We've
mentioned in the past in China, we have less than $100 million of imports into the U.S. or exports
to the U.S., so the new tariff is less than $10 million. And we're confident we'll be able to mitigate
that with our various programs. And we built that into the guidance.
We've also mentioned in the past that our Mexico exports to the U.S. is less than China. And so
we'll kind of see how things play out there. But we also feel like we've looked at different
scenarios, we're monitoring closely, and we're prepared to react if we need to. And it will be a
combination of maybe there's some supply chain topics, but there's also things we can look at
pricing side -- on the pricing side as well.
In terms of like a market itself, Mexico is probably about 2% of our sales. And by the way, so is
Canada. And but we don't export a lot from the U.S. to those markets in terms of like direct
product sourcing in the U.S. So, we've looked at that scenario, and we also feel like we should be
able to manage that if we got into like this retaliatory topic in North America.
Q - `Matthew Sykes, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you very much.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
You're welcome.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Rachel Vatnsdal, JP Morgan of JP Morgan. Your line is open.
Q - `Rachel Vatnsdal, JP Morgan `
Perfect. Hi, good morning. Thank you so much for taking the question. First, with housekeeping, Isegment for the first quarter, including and excluding that shipping comp across segments and
then geographies as well?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, sure, Rachel. So I'm just going to go top to bottom. And I'll cover things even if I already
mentioned them just to make sure we're complete. So, for Lab, for Q1, for '25, our guidance is
down low single digit on a reported basis and up mid-single digit on an adjusted basis, adjusting
for this shipping delay topic from last year in Q1.
Total industrial would be down low single digit. Our guidance is in Q1 and adjusting for the
shipping delay it would be flat and then within that you have core Industrial down high single-
digits on a reported basis and down mid-single-digit on an adjusted basis and then you have
product inspection up high single-digit on both a reported and adjusted basis.
And then in terms of the geographies the Americas our guidance for Q1 is to be down low single-
digit and for on an adjusted basis for the shipping delay it would be up low single digit. Europe
would be down high single-digit on a reported basis and it would be up low single-digit on an
adjusted basis. And then China would be up low single-digit on a reported basis and a adjusted
basis.
And do you want the full year too or do you is Q1 good?
Q - `Rachel Vatnsdal, JP Morgan `
Sure. Yes, if anything changes on the full year, that would be helpful as well.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, okay so apologies if this is repeating. So, Lab on a reported up low to mid-single- digit on an
adjusted basis up mid to high single-digit. Total industrial up low single-digit on a both reported
and adjusted basis. Core industrial up low single-digit on both a reported and adjusted basis.
Product Inspection up mid-single-digit on both a reported and adjusted basis. Retail flattish on a
reported basis and up low single-digit on an adjusted basis.
And then if we look at the regions Americas up low to mid single-digit on a reported basis and up
mid-single-digit on an adjusted basis. Europe up low single-digit on a reported basis and up mid
single-digit on an adjusted basis. And then China up low single-digit on both a reported and
adjusted basis. And that was all for the full year.
Q - `Rachel Vatnsdal, JP Morgan `
Great that's super helpful. If I could just squeeze in my follow-up then just on sticking on that topic
of China you guys pointed towards low single-digit growth for the year, which was also your prior
assumption. So, have you seen any impact regarding some of this equipment stimulus to date
yet?
And is anything embedded for stimulus within that full number? And also just breakdown for us,
obviously, we have some of this equipment specific stimulus that some of your peers have called
out. What about the broader economic and monetary policy that we're seeing on China on a
stimulus impact? Should that be more of the driver for you guys than the equipment stuff? Just
unpack that for us. Thank you.
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, Chief Executive Officer `Yes, very good. Thanks Rachel and I'll take that and let Shawn chime in as well. So, we have
actually not participated a lot of our portfolio in the current or last stimulus package and those
were more targeted towards high-end research products. We of course had some deals where
we bundled instruments together to qualify for the stimulus amount and the thresholds.
But it was -- it didn't really move the needle for us in Q4. We also have not included any
projection of the stimulus in our 2025 guidance. If there is a broader-based stimulus, that would
definitely help us to probably be ahead of what we are forecasting now for 2025 in China, but it
remains to be seen.
Again, we took a cautious stand here and said we'll go with the current market conditions as they
are. Again, if it's a broad-market stimulus that goes across the industries, we will benefit definitely
more. If it's another very targeted, high-end research instrument, front-end research stimulus,
maybe not so much. And again, the outlook will remain unchanged.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Right, and I think we talked about a little bit in the past, for us, one of the topics is broader
stimulus obviously is bigger. We're implying a broader fiscal stimulus, more similar to what they've
done in the past, where they're really doing stuff to support economic development. But of
course, when they do that, it also increases confidence in the country.
And I just think the more that they can send strong signals to increase confidence in the business
community so that people will start pulling the trigger on capital expenditures, et cetera, or just
spending and investing in general, that would be very positive.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Josh Waldman of Cleveland Research. Your line is
open.
Q - `Joshua Waldman, Cleveland Research
Hey, good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. I mean, it sounds like the strength in Europe,
maybe even the U.S., was focused within biopharma. I guess, is that right? And I mean do you --
or did you see an uptick in other markets? And then, I guess, how do you interpret the strength in
the fourth quarter as it relates to confidence of customers to return to normal growth and
spending going forward? And I'm curious what you're hearing from customers as it relates to
their desire to spend on more replacement type purchases in 2025. Any change there?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thanks, Josh. Again, when we talk about the growth and the particular growth in terms of end
market segments, you have pharma, biopharma was a contributor, but so was also the Food
industry. And you have also heard about the numbers that we have, for example, in product
inspection. So I would say it was, in Q4 specifically, was across a broader part of the markets.
They're not just pharma, biopharma, but we clearly see the strongest demand coming out of
pharma, biopharma.
And that is also affecting probably more the Lab business and the Process Analytics business,
especially when you think about biopharma process, which is exactly driving the growth that
you've seen in process analytics.Now, looking forward, is the Q4 for us a good indicator that the market will fully recover to normal
levels? We are still cautious there, and we are looking at 2025 as also a transitory year still, as we
said, we guide the first half lower than the second half. I mean, the 3% growth and ex of shipping
delays, the 4.5% growth, is still not back to what we would consider a normal year, so to speak.
But we are hoping that the market will continue to pick up. Again, our portfolio competes really
well.
And in terms of the replacement cycles, yes, the last two years have been probably a bit
subdued in terms of product replacement, and once the budgets become available, we have an
opportunity to capture also more growth coming from replacement.
Q - `Joshua Waldman, Cleveland Research
Got it, okay. And then, Shawn, a question on tariffs may be asked another way. I mean, it sounds
like the updated guide contemplates potential impacts in tariffs. Any way to frame up how you're
thinking about offsetting the cost impact? I mean, do you think more of the offset will come from
price, or is it more weighted towards supply chain levers?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, I mean, I think it will be similar to last time we dealt with the topic. I mean, clearly, it will be a
combination of both. I mean, we're clearly looking at the different scenarios. We're clearly looking
at pricing opportunities in the portfolio. We do it in a very differentiated way, and so we've done
that analysis. And then we also look at some of the processes within supply chain and whether we
can make tweaks here or there.
But, of course, pricing is the more agile topic than supply chain. Sometimes supply chain can take
a little bit more time.
Q - `Joshua Waldman, Cleveland Research
Okay, thanks, guys.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Patrick Donnelly, Citi of Citi. Your line is open.
Q - `Patrick Donnelly, Citi `
Hey, guys, thanks for taking the questions. Shawn, maybe just to pick up right where you left off
there on the margin front. Can you just talk about the margin build this year? It's always helpful to
hear about the price contribution, the moving pieces, both 1Q and for the year would be helpful
just to think about the margin side.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, so, of course, we were really happy with our margin expansion in the fourth quarter. Just
really strong. I mean, if you put it into perspective, the, our gross margin expanded 220 basis
points. And if you exclude all this noise from the shipping delay, it was still up by 160 basis points.
And what we saw in the quarter was getting back to volume growth, volume growth was clearly
stood out for us in our numbers and it was really great to see.
Pricing kind of came in as we expected, kind of in this 2%, range. And so we're very pleased with
the execution, actually had a very strong finish to the year in our global pricing program. And then,we continue to benefit from some of the other things we're working on, whether it's like
programs within the SternDrive umbrella about productivity and cost reduction in certain
categories. And then we were able to still invest in the business like in our service organization. So
really great finish to the quarter on a full year basis. It drove actually also, very good results on a
full year basis.
And if we kind of then skip to more of your question with the first quarter, the first quarter is --
we're expecting pricing to kind of start out at 2%. We're expecting that also for on a full year
basis as well, too. Hey, I acknowledge, there could be some upside to that number depending on
how the tariff situation evolves. We'll see how that goes and we'll update accordingly next quarter
as we kind of learn more about how the tariffs unfold.
But right now we're assuming 2%. And then, I think it will be a similar thing. I think in the first half of
the year, we'll have less volume than the second half of the year. If we kind of like look at the
actual quarters themselves, you'd see that the first quarter would be, from an operating margin
perspective would be down by about 220 bps. And I think in the prepared remarks, I said
excluding the shipping delay was up by 30, but it's probably more like up like 40. And then on a
full year basis, our operating margin would be flattish, maybe up slightly. But the shipping delay
had an impact of about 60 bps on an operating margin.
And then if we kind of jump up to the gross margin, on a reported basis, our gross margin would
be down probably in the 40 bps kind of a range because of the shipping delay volume topic. But
on a reported basis, and that's kind of like apples to apples, comparing apples to apples. But
then on a reported basis, it would be up by about 20 bps. So the shipping delay had the effect of
reducing our gross margin by about 60 bps. And then for the full year, it would be flattish, maybe
up slightly on a reported basis. But again, if you exclude the shipping delay from last year and do
apples to apples, it would be up probably about 20 bps.
Q - `Patrick Donnelly, Citi `
That's really helpful, helpful details. Thanks, Shawn. And then Patrick, maybe one for you, I think on
one of the earlier questions, on the exit rates, you kind of said you wouldn't be surprised if end
markets started a little more cautious this year. Just listening to the call, I mean, it sounds like
product inspection momentum's picking up, pharma seems better. Just curious if that was more
conservatism or something you're seeing to start the year in specific markets? I mean, it sounds
like most of these markets are picking up, but just wanted to clean that up if you could. Thank you
so much.
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, sure. I mean, when you look at product inspection, for example, there's also, of course, a
project business with longer cycle times. And when we look at the sales projection for Q1, these
are also, unlike a lot of our other portfolio where we have very fast turnaround times in terms of
inventory, here we have longer cycles and then also have a longer view in terms of the sales
volume on the incoming orders.
But yes, pharma, biopharma is having good momentum at the moment. The food industry, as we
said, specifically for us in the product inspection area, we see that our product portfolio
resonates extremely well, that we're getting into new market segments that we didn't serve
before. In the mid-market, it opens a lot of new doors, a lot of new deals we have actually with
new customers that we didn't serve before. But we remain -- we have a little bit of cautious stand
here on the outlook because we also want to see how these uncertainties around tariffs, etimportant that we follow the leads very quickly, that we have a strong lead generation engine,
that we turn them around into orders.
And we have been -- we have demonstrated in the past, we can be very -- that we are very
effective on this. And I'm counting on the team on the continued execution excellence to drive
every potential order home also in Q1. But there is some uncertainty out there, and we cannot
neglect that. It's still on China. It's also in some of the mature markets with, again, with these
potential tariffs. We need to see how that plays out. So I think it's, we are well advised to take a
bit of conservative stand at the moment.
Q - `Patrick Donnelly, Citi `
Yes, makes a lot of sense. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Catherine Schulte, Robert W. Baird & Company of Baird. Your line is open.
Q - `Catherine Schulte, Robert W. Baird & Company `
Hey, guys, thanks for the question. Maybe first on your services business, I think this was the
second consecutive quarter of high single-digit growth there. And I believe your guide is in mid to
high single digits for '25. Do the results this quarter make you confident in hitting the high end of
that range?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, actually, it does. And we had, in service, we had a very strong 2024 overall with 7% growth.
The first half was, I think, about 6%. Q3 was 9%. Q4 was 8%. And we're really looking forward to
continued growth in service. We have launched a growth acceleration program also last year for
services where we invest more into service capacity. We have also developed a broader set of --
in our service portfolio and making sure that we address a bigger part of the installed base that
we have out there that currently is not under service from-- with Mettler-Toledo.
So I think we have a good opportunity to reach that growth rate that we projected for service.
Q - `Catherine Schulte, Robert W. Baird & Company `
All right, great. And maybe just on the new administration, I know you don't have much NIH
exposure, but are there any other policies more broadly that you think could either disrupt or
benefit you other than the tariff piece that you've already talked about?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, Chief Executive Officer `
I don't think so. I mean, I think that's the biggest impact probably on the business. There could be
tariffs. Again, it creates uncertainty in the market. But in these, I would say, rather turbulent times,
we also have demonstrated in the past that Mettler-Toledo is really a company that is very agile
and captures opportunity. Of course, uncertainties are never good for the market, but it's also for
companies like Mettler with a global footprint who can react quickly in terms of how we can serve
our customers. We have demonstrated it also during COVID. It's an opportunity to gain market
share.
So I look at it also as an opportunity. It's also the story I tell to my team here. We have to see this
as an opportunity to continue to serve our customers in the best possible way. We havetremendous customer trust as a supplier, and that should benefit us as well.
Q - `Catherine Schulte, Robert W. Baird & Company `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Tycho Peterson, Jefferies & Company of Jefferies. Your line is open.
Q - `Tycho Peterson, Jefferies & Company `
Hey, thanks. You guys noted accelerating growth in India. I mean, I feel like it's been a while since
you've called that out. Just curious what secular trends you're seeing there that warrant increased
investments?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, Chief Executive Officer `
I think we have not really I think spoken in detail about accelerated growth in India. We said we
have growth acceleration plans in countries also outside of China and one of the areas one of the
countries was Japan, the other one was India that we highlighted but we have also other regions
that we where we have developed over the last, let's say, two years dedicated growth
acceleration plans. India actually was doing well for us throughout 2024.
Shawn do you have the final number?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, I do. I mean, we did have actually a very strong quarter. Now, I don't know how much of it the
shipping delay topic would have played into it, but it was a very, very strong double-digit number.
And for the full year, we were up high single-digit there. So, we did well in India, and we see it as
a market that should outgrow other markets going forward.
Q - `Tycho Peterson, Jefferies & Company `
Okay. And then two quick follow-ups. Shawn, I appreciate your commentary on pricing 2% for the
quarter and first quarter for the year. How high could you take that if you needed to in an
inflationary environment? Is there kind of a natural ceiling on where you think you could take it?
And then, maybe totally separately, you talked about process analytics strength. Is that more
greenfield or are you taking kind of share there in bioproduction? Thanks.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Hey, so in terms of pricing, Tycho, it all depends really on the environment. Like, we kind of
saw that when inflation really increased a few years ago. I think we were able to do more. Like,
that ceiling was higher because inflation was higher, right? And I think that the environment of
tariffs could, could lead to a higher inflationary environment or it could lead to an environment
where our market is just going to raise prices higher. But it will very much be dependent on, what
the tariffs are, what countries are hit or not hit, how broad it is or not.
So, we'll play it out. I mean, I think for us, I think we are well positioned because we feel like we
have invested a lot in our value proposition. We feel like that very much resonates with our
customers. I think our sales organization around the world does a really great job of articulating
that. And fortunately, because we sell most of the time directly and we're often selling it to theAnd then as you know, our average price of our products is less than $10,000. So, when we start
talking about 1%, , dollar-wise, it's not like a significant dollar increase. So, I wouldn't want to put a
ceiling on it, but we do feel like we're pretty well positioned going into it.
In terms of process analytics, Patrick, did you want to comment on that?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure, I can. So, I think we are well positioned with our portfolio as we also have they have
launched a lot of new products over the last two years. And that's resonating well with customers,
both in pharma, biopharma, but also, for example, in the semiconductor industry for ultra-pure
water applications, where we have a strong portfolio. So, we see also in that portfolio good
growth. I mean, it's always hard to take market share. I'm proud of our portfolio. I'm proud of our
team of how they execute on the go-to-market strategy.
So, yes, I would say potentially yes, but they don't have any absolute numbers. Again, the
portfolio is strong. The customers love our portfolio. They love our service. And that's where we
need to be to also continue that growth.
Q - `Tycho Peterson, Jefferies & Company `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
Our last question comes from the line of `Michael Ryskin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch of Bank of America. Your line is open.
Q - `Michael Ryskin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great. Thanks for squeezing me in, guys. I'm sort of scratching the bottom of the barrel for
questions. Almost everything's been asked by one of the other analysts, but maybe just a couple
of miscellaneous cleanups. You alluded to this earlier, Shawn, on the EPS bridge for '25, the $0.50
increase. You may be talked about interest rates, and FX in terms of the Swiss franc have an
impact? Any chance you could just give us the numbers? I'm sure we could do the math, but
those will be more precise in terms of, how much each contributed.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, hey, Mike, I mean, I think the math is probably pretty clear. I mean, I think, you can see the
beat and then we updated the interest in the other numbers and then, the FX and the other
probably, squeezes out together and then, the high 50s or something.
Q - `Michael Ryskin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay, all right, fair enough. And then just on the margins, to an earlier question, you talked
through the margin, gross margin versus op margin for the year, but in my notes, I had you guys
having gross margin up a little bit previously. I think the repeat that you expect gross margins up
30 Bps to 40 Bps. Now it seems like it's a little bit less than that. Is that FX having an issue or is
there anything else in terms of moving pieces there?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, no, I think, I mean, I think, we ended a little bit, I think the absolute number that we ended
this year is going to be, like, I think the number that we have for next year is the same. It's justa reported basis. And then if you exclude the shipping delay topic, it's probably up, probably,
what did I say? 30 basis points, so.
Q - `Michael Ryskin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Got it. Okay, that works. All right, thanks so much.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, thanks.
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
That concludes our Q&A session. I will now turn the conference back over to Adam for closing
remarks.
A - `Adam Uhlman, Head of Investor Relations `
Okay, great. Hey, thanks everybody for joining us on the call this morning. If you have any follow-
up questions, please feel free to reach out to me. That will be all for the great weekend, we will
talk to you soon.
Operator
This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.