Q4 2025 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. My name is Jericho, and I'll be your your
conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Mettler-Toledo
Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent
any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over to `Adam Uhlman, Head of Investor Relations, Head of
Investor Relations. You may begin.
`Adam Uhlman, Head of Investor Relations `
Hey, thanks, Jericho, and good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us. On the call with me
today is `Patrick Kaltenbach, President & Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Executive Officer; and `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Financial
Officer.
Let me cover some administrative matters. This call is being webcast and is available for replay
on our website at mt.com. A copy of the press release and the presentation that we will refer to
on today's call is also available on our website. This call will include forward-looking statements
within the meaning of the US Securities Act of 1933 and the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
These statements involve risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results,
financial condition, performance, and achievements to be materially different from those
expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements.
For a discussion of these risks and uncertainties, see our recent annual report on Form 10-K and
quarterly and current reports filed with the SEC. The company disclaims any obligation or
undertaking to provide any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement, except as
required by law. On today's call, we will use non-GAAP financial measures, and a reconciliation ofthese non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly-comparable GAAP measure is provided
in the 8-K and is available on our website. Let me now turn the call over to Patrick.
`Patrick Kaltenbach, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Adam, and good morning, everyone. We appreciate you joining our call today. Last
night, we reported our fourth quarter financial results, the details of which are outlined for you on
page 3 of our presentation. We had a great finish to the year with broad-based growth by
geography and product category. Our team continues to execute very well in a challenging
environment, and delivered strong adjusted EPS growth for the quarter with excellent free cash
flow conversion for the year.
I'm very proud of our organization's resilience and agility over the past year, as we successfully
navigated challenges posed by global trade disputes and soft market conditions, and we remain
agile in this dynamic environment. Looking ahead, we are very well positioned to drive growth
with our Spinnaker sales and marketing program and innovative product portfolio, while
capitalizing on opportunities related to automation, digitalization, and onshoring investments
around the world. Our strategic initiatives and strong culture of innovation and operational
excellence are deeply embedded in the organization, and will help us continue to gain share and
deliver strong financial performance.
Let me now turn the call over to Shawn to cover the financial results and our guidance, and then I
will come back with some additional commentary on the business and our outlook. Shawn?
`Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Patrick, and good morning, everyone. Sales in the quarter were $1.1 billion, which
represented an increase in local currency of 5% or 4%, excluding previously communicated
acquisitions. On a US dollar reported basis, sales increased 8%. On slide number 4, we show
sales growth by region. Local currency sales increased 7% in the Americas, which included a 3%
benefit from acquisitions, and increased 4% in Europe and 4% in Asia/rest of the world. Local
currency sales in China increased 3% during the quarter.
Slide number 5 shows local currency sales growth by region for the full year 2025. On slide
number 6, we summarized local currency sales growth by product area. For the quarter,
laboratory sales increased 3%, while industrial increased 7% and included a 3% benefit from
recent acquisitions. Excluding acquisitions, core industrial grew 2% and product inspection grew
7%. Food retail grew 19% in the quarter. Lastly, service revenue grew 8% in the quarter, including a
2% benefit from acquisitions. Slide number 7 summarizes our local currency sales growth by
product area for the full year 2025.
Let me now move to the rest of the P&L, which is summarized on slide number 8. Gross margin
was 59.8% in the quarter, a decrease of 140 basis points, and included unfavorable foreign
currency of 70 basis points in acquisition mix. Our organic gross margin declined 20 basis points
excluding foreign currency, and was impacted by incremental gross tariff costs of 190 basis
points. R&D amounted to $52.6 million in the quarter and was flat on a local currency basis over
the prior period.
SG&A amounted to $259.8 million, a 6% increase in local currency over the prior year, and
includes sales and marketing investments. Adjusted operating profit amounted to $363 million in
the quarter, up 3% versus the prior year. Adjusted operating margin was 32.1%, a decrease of 160
basis points versus the prior year. Unfavorable currency was a 100 basis-point headwind tooperating margin in the quarter. We estimate the gross impact of tariffs reduced our operating
profit by 7%, and was a 190 basis-point headwind to our operating margin.
A couple of final comments on the P&L. Amortization amounted to $19.7 million in the quarter,
interest expense was $17.4 million and adjusted operating income amounted to $4.1 million. Our
effective tax rate was 19% in the quarter. This rate is before discrete items, and is adjusted for
the timing of stock option exercises. This also excludes a $19.5 million discrete tax benefit related
to the settlement of a tax audit. Fully diluted shares amounted to $20.4 million, which is
approximately a 3% decline from the prior year.
Adjusted EPS for the quarter was $13.36, an 8% increase over the prior year. Incremental tariff
costs were a gross headwind to EPS of 7%. On a reported basis in the quarter, EPS was $13.98 as
compared to $11.96 in the prior year. Reported EPS in the quarter included $0.28 of purchased
intangible amortization, $0.18 of restructuring costs, a $0.14 net benefit from acquisition related
items, a $0.01 tax headwind related to the timing of stock option exercises, and a $0.95 discrete
tax benefit.
Slide number 9 summarizes our full-year 2025 results. Local currency sales increased 3% for the
year, adjusted operating profit declined 1%, and our operating margin attracted 140 basis points.
Adjusted EPS increased 4%. Excluding the impact of 2023 shipping delays that benefited 2024
results, we estimate local currency sales grew 4% in 2025, operating margin declined 80 basis
points and adjusted EPS grew 8%.
Unfavorable foreign currency negatively impacted our operating margin by 50 basis points in
2025. Gross incremental tariff costs was a headwind to operating profit by $50 million, operating
margin by 130 basis points, and EPS growth by 5% in 2025. That covers the P&L, and let me now
comment on adjusted free cash flow, which amounted to $878 million in 2025, a conversion ratio
of 99% of our adjusted net income. DSO was 35 days, while IPO was 4.2 times.
Let me now turn to our guidance for the first quarter and the full year 2026. As you review our
guidance, please keep in mind the following factors. First, our guidance assumes US import
tariffs, as well as the impact of retaliatory tariffs from other countries will remain in effect at
current levels. Second, while we acknowledge that headlines from some end-markets like Life
Sciences have been more favorable recently, geopolitical tensions remain elevated, and we
assume customers are more cautious with their investments to start the year with gradual
improvements throughout the year. However, on a full-year basis, our forecast does not assume
a significant improvement in market conditions in 2026 versus last year.
Third, we feel very confident in our ability to exclude -- to execute on our growth and productivity
initiatives, and believe we are well positioned to gain market share regardless of the
macroenvironment.
Now turning to our guidance. For the full-year 2026, our local currency sales growth forecast is
unchanged at approximately 4% or approximately 3.5% excluding our previously announced
acquisitions. Our operating margin is expected to be up 60 basis points to 70 basis points,
excluding the impact of currency, which is flattish to up slightly on a reported basis. Adjusted EPS
is forecast to be in the range of $46.05 to $46.70, which represents a growth rate of 8% to 9%.
At recent spot rates, foreign exchange is estimated to be a 1% benefit to sales growth and a
slight headwind to EPS. For the first quarter of 2026, we expect local currency sales to grow
approximately 3%. Operating margin is expected to decrease approximately 100 basis points at
the midpoint of our range or flat excluding unfavorable currency. We expect adjusted EPS to be inrates would benefit first quarter sales by approximately 4%, and would be neutral to adjusted
EPS.
Some further comments on our 2026 guidance. We expect total amortization, including
purchased intangible amortization, to be approximately $78 million. Purchased intangible
amortization is excluded from adjusted EPS, and is estimated at $27 million on a pre-tax basis or
approximately $1.04. Interest expense is forecasted $70 million for the year. Other income is
estimated at approximately $19 million, which is up from our previous guidance and is due to
updated pension accounting that is partly offset by higher pension costs that are now -- that are
included in operating profit. We expect our tax rate before discrete items will remain at 19% in
2026.
Free cash flow is expected to be approximately $900 million in 2026, which is an increase of 5%
on a per share basis, with the first quarter approximately $100 million, which is impacted by the
timing of tax payments. Share repurchases are expected to be in the range of $825 million to
$875 million. That's it from my side, and I'll now turn it back to Patrick.
`Patrick Kaltenbach, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Shawn. Let me start with some comments on our operating businesses, starting with Lab,
which had modest growth in the quarter, again, strong growth in the prior year, and good
underlying organic sales growth for the full year. Our results reflect robust bioprocessing growth,
especially with single-use consumables, which was offset in part by softer demand from biotech,
academia, and the chemical sector.
While headlines for pharma and Life Sciences markets have been more favorable recently, we
expect customers to still be cautious with their investments to start the year. Our unique go-to-
market strategies will ensure that we are very well positioned to capitalize on our customers'
growing needs for equipment replacement going forward.
Our innovative portfolio remains an important competitive advantage, and we continue to invest
to further differentiate ourselves from the competition. For example, we recently launched an
entirely new electronic pipette called Vero, that is lightweight and has a very compact design. It
has an exceptionally long battery life, and can complete 2,800 pipetting cycles on a single
charge. It is also unique in that it allows scientists to adjust flow rates, which is very helpful when
working with delicate cells or nucleic acids, for example. Our Vero introduction complements the
many exciting lab innovations we have brought to market in recent years, and we have a deep
pipeline for the future.
Turning to industrial, we had modest growth in our core industrial business this quarter, including
strong growth in China against easy comparisons. Given the soft market conditions over the past
year, we are pleased with the good sales growth core industrial delivered in 2025. However,
market demand in most geographies remain subdued, and we have maintained our full-year
forecast for modest growth. Our teams remain active in identifying new growth opportunities,
and we believe we are well positioned to capitalize on investments in automation, digitalization,
replacement demand, and onshoring in the future.
Our industrial portfolio is in excellent shape. And to support growing demand for automation
applications, we recently introduced new high-speed data communication features and protocols
across our smart automation weighing indicators that ensure the compatibility of our devices with
our customers' IT and OT ecosystems. We have partnered with leading MES providers to enable
seamless integration of our intelligent weighing devices through standardized interfaces intointuitive operator applications, helping customers increase efficiency and reduce errors as IT and
OT environments continue to converge.
Turning to product inspection, sales growth in the fourth quarter was very strong, as we have
capitalized on our excellent portfolio, and we believe our organic sales growth in 2025 was well
ahead of market growth. We continue to enhance our portfolio, and recently introduced our new
X3 Series of X-ray solutions for end-of-line inspections of loose products like prescription tablets
and pills, or food items -- for food items like nuts, fruits, and grains. The X3 Series offers both
single and dual energy capabilities, and is very differentiated in the market. Lastly, food retail
sales grew strongly against easy year-ago comparisons. While our food retail business tends to
be lumpy, we were very happy with its growth in 2025.
Now, let me make some additional comments by geography, starting in the Americas, which had
good growth across most of the portfolio, especially with our industrial and retail solutions.
Growth in our laboratory business was good and included very strong bioprocessing growth.
Turning to Europe, our fourth quarter results were better than expected due to very strong
performance from our product inspection business. For the year, our European market
organizations delivered good results despite soft economic conditions in some Western
European countries, as we continue to benefit from our Spinnaker sales and marketing initiatives
and innovative portfolio. However, economic conditions in Europe are mixed, and we do not
expect significant improvement in market demand in 2026.
Finally, Asia/rest of the world had good growth in the fourth quarter, and was largely in line with
our expectations. Our business in China grew 3%, led by good demand for industrial products
from biopharma customers. Lab products were flattish, and our team remains very engaged with
helping customers to help them address new China Pharmacopoeia regulations, including stricter
minimum weighing standards and quality monitoring of ultra-pure water among others. Market
conditions in China have recently been more steady, but as we know, from the past, things can
change quickly.
In markets outside of China, we had very good growth against difficult comparisons in the fourth
quarter. Emerging markets outside of China were 18% of our sales in 2025, and grew above our
company average due to our dedicated resources and growth initiatives in these countries.
Emerging markets are an important component of our growth strategy, and we expect above-
average sales growth over the coming years.
In summary, we delivered another year of solid growth despite ongoing market headwinds, as
our team leveraged our sophisticated go-to-market strategies and strong product and service
offering. Our team's resilience and agility in our pricing, supply-chain productivity, and cost-saving
initiatives were pivotal in navigating tariff challenges and government policy uncertainties
throughout 2025.
We are squarely focused on driving growth in 2026. We will continue to benefit from our strong
global leadership positions, diversified customer base, innovative product offering and significant
installed base. Service and faster-growing emerging markets will remain tailwinds, and we have
accelerated our digital capabilities to identify and pursue growth opportunities, increasing the
effectiveness of our global sales, increasing the effectiveness of our global sales organization.
Our market-leading solutions and innovative portfolio uniquely positions us to meet increasing
customer demand for automation and digitalization solutions as well as faster-growing segments.
We also look forward to capitalizing on future growth opportunities with customer replacementNow this concludes our prepared remarks. Operator, I'd like to open the line now for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) We do
request, for today's session, that you please limit to one question and one follow-up. Our first
question comes from `Patrick Donnelly, Analyst, Citigroup from Citi. Please go ahead.
Q - `Patrick Donnelly, Analyst, Citigroup `
Hey, guys. Thank you for taking the questions. Maybe on the 1Q commentary, Patrick, you talked
about baking in that customers in spite of some positive headlines to your point on pharma and
life sci customers, you're baking in a little more cost at the start of the year. Is that something
you're hearing through the first month and change here, or is it just obviously there's a typical
network conservatism. Just wondering if that's something you're picking up in the market or more
just, you don't want to bake in any improvement just yet. Let's see how it plays out. So it would be
helpful to just talk through that 1Q guide.
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Patrick. And I'll let Shawn comment on this as well. But maybe to my comment on
the headlines, again, headlines have been still pretty volatile while they have been better on the
pharma and life sciences side. We all appreciate there's still more uncertainty in the market out
there. And this also, across the broader portfolio and the broader markets we serve, still leads to
longer deal cycles, et cetera. So as we said also in our Q3 call and also at the J.P. Morgan
conference, we think of our customers, and we feel that we'll start the year a bit more cautious,
and we have really build it into our guidance for Q1 and for the full year.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. And hey, just to echo what Patrick said, hey, we're of course, stepping back, we're of
course, very pleased with the fourth quarter came in better than what we expected, some good
broad-based growth throughout the portfolio. We can kind of dig into that maybe in a minute.
We're also very pleased with our full-year guide carrying forward that be into 2026 full year,
maintaining the 4% organic -- not organic, the local currency guide for the full year on sales.
But like Patrick said, as we previously mentioned, we do kind of tend to think that customers will
likely start the year a little bit more cautious in Q1. It's always difficult to have visibility into Q1. Every
time you're starting a year, it's a new year. You almost have to get through the whole quarter and
get through March to really get a feeling for how things are progressing. But just sitting here
today, it feels like a prudent approach for us to take in terms of how we're looking at the first
quarter. And as he says, we do expect things to kind of gradually get better throughout the year.
Q - `Patrick Donnelly, Analyst, Citigroup `
Okay. That's helpful. And then, Shawn, maybe one for you, just in terms of components of the
guide, I would love if you could break out how you're thinking about pricing versus volume, both
on the revenue side, and then if you could give a bit of a margin build with pricing, FX, et cetera,
would be very helpful. Thank you, guys.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `Yeah. So, hey, we continue to feel really good about our pricing program. Of course, one of the
things that I like about pricing the most is that it really highlights the value proposition in the
company. We've been really investing a lot in innovation over the last few years. And when you
create value, you can realize pricing. So, if you kind of like look at our pricing, we're going to start
the year off a little bit stronger because of the benefit of mid-year pricing actions from last year.
So, I am kind of would expect Q1 to be in the 3.5% or so kind of a range. And then for the full
year, we're kind of maintaining that 2.5% for the full year.
From an acquisition perspective, we would expect to benefit about 1% during the first half of the
year from acquisitions, which would be about 0.5 point for the full year. And then that would kind
of translate into organic volume for the full year of 1%, but it would be down by about 1.5% for Q1.
And this kind of just gets back to that same comment about just being a little bit more cautious.
And frankly, just not surprised if customers start the year a little bit more cautious with how they
spend, just given the volatility that we experienced or they experienced last year, and just some
of the uncertainty in the market. But, hey, we also recognize headlines have been getting better,
and hopefully, we'll start to see things that translate into business as we go through the year.
In terms of margins, there's a few things in terms of affecting our margins. So maybe we'll start
with operating margin. So, on a reported basis, well, maybe one comment first, like currency has
a pretty significant effect on our margins. It did in the second half of the year. If you remember,
we were talking about this last quarter, and it's not a significant effect on like profit, but it is on
sales. And so, just the math, when you start calculating operating profit as a percentage of sales,
of course, that's going to have and optically look like a headwind. So that headwind is about 100
basis points for the first quarter, and it's about 50 basis points for the full year of 2026. So,
excluding that, we would expect our operating margin to be up slightly in Q1, and we would
expect it to be up by about 60 basis points to 70 basis points for the full year. But then, of
course, on a reported basis, it's going to be different. On a reported basis, Q1 will be down
probably in the 100 basis point kind of range, maybe 90 basis points, and then for the full year, it
would be up slightly.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI from Evercore ISI. Please go ahead.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Hey guys, congrats on a nice sprint [ph] and thank you for taking my question. Just back on this Q1
guidance, Shawn and Patrick. You guys did 4% organic in Q4. I think, your Q1 is implying 2%
organic, correct me if I'm wrong. What causes that 4% to 2% step-down, and what are you
assuming for end-markets? When you say cautiousness, can you walk us through the different
assumptions you're having industrial versus labs and pharma?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Yeah, sure. So, hey, maybe I can walk through maybe, Vijay, kind of like the assumptions for
Q1 full year, but also Q4. But as I kind of do it, you'll see that when we look at the beat, there was
a very good beat on the industrial side, especially process analytics -- I mean, I'm sorry, not
process analytics, product inspection. And then when you look at the geographies, you'll see
Europe came in better than expected, also to a certain degree in the Americas. And as we were
kind of entering the quarter, we were a little bit more concerned about Europe, but our product
inspection business in Europe did particularly well.And then when we go through it, you'll also see that kind of what steps down a little bit from Q4
to Q1 just in terms of growth rates. You'll see that --you'll see a little bit on the industrial side,
you'll also see a little bit on the retail side, and then and also maybe this cautiousness in the
Americas as well as to a certain degree in Europe.
So in terms of the fourth quarter, I think this might be out there, but I'll just kind of go through it
quickly. So, Q4 lab grew 3%. Our guide for Q1 is up low-single digit and our guide for the full year
is growing low-to-mid single digit. Core industrial grew 4%, and our guide for Q1 is flattish, and
our guide for the full year is up low-to mid-single digit.
Product inspection grew 11% in Q4. Of course, that was 7% organic, and then the industrial, by the
way, was 2% organic core industrial. And then our Q1 guidance for product inspection is up mid-
to-high single digit, and our full-year guidance is up low-to-mid single digit. And then retail grew
19% in Q4, and our guidance for Q1 is up high-single digit, and then our guidance for the full year
is flattish.
And then if we kind of like look at the regions, Americas was up 7%, which was 4% organic. And if
you look at Q1, we're guiding up low-single digit, and we're guiding for the full year up mid-single
digit. And then Europe was up 4% in Q4, and then for Q1, we're guiding up low-single digit and
then for the full year also, low-single digit. And then, China was up 3% in Q4. And then for Q1,
we're guiding also up low-single digit, and for the full year up low-single digit
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Hey, that's very helpful, Shawn. One on just on your EPS raise [ph] composition, my math looks
like maybe half to be came from below the lines rate between interest expense and higher
pension income. What's the other, I guess, $0.30 or so raise coming from? Because it looks like
top line didn't change.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
So you talking the full-year 2026, Vijay?
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Yes. Yes.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, yeah. No, no, no, no. I think just to clarify, so our beat -- the beat in Q4 was related to sales.
I think, some of the below OP stuff might be a little confusing, but we excluded that some of
those benefits from our adjusted EPS, like so, for example, the one-time tax benefit. When you
look at our 2026 EPS guidance, we kind of carried forward the EPS beat from 2025, we also
increased our EPS for the benefit from Swiss tax rates. So I mean, tariff rates. So, you might
remember, the Swiss tariff rate decreased from 39% to 15%. That had a benefit of just under 1%
of EPS. And then aside from that, there was a little bit of noise.
We had foreign currency, which was a slight headwind, and we updated for that. And then we had
a little bit of noise with better pension income that's going to help out a little bit below OP, but
that's based on like how you do your actuarial accounting at the end of the year, but there's also
maybe an offset in some of the pension stuff above OP, and just some basic fine tuning at the
end of the year. But, stepping back, we're very pleased with raising EPS by $0.70 for the full year,
which is about 2%, and maintaining our 8% to 9% EPS growth.Q - `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
That's helpful. Thanks, Shawn.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah.
Operator
Our next question comes from Dan Arias from Stifel. Please go ahead.
Q - `Daniel Arias, Analyst, Stifel `
Good morning, guys. Thanks for the questions. Shawn, food retail was pretty strong here. Is
something picking up or is that just sort of the inherent lumpiness of that business? The outlook, I
think for the year is flat. So, I'm not sure if spending improvement makes that easier if the big 4Q
just kind of creates a tougher comp which makes that harder to reach.
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Hey, Dan, this is Patrick. Look, I mean, with retail, of course, we are very happy with the
performance we have seen from retail in Q4 and also in 2025 as it was growing. But I also want to
remind you that the retail business is a pretty lumpy business, a lot of project business. And as we
still guide the retail for Q1 for high-single digit, I think fiscal year '26, we'll see a tough compare,
and that we also guided to flattish growth in 2026.
Again, it's a lot of ups and downs, big project business there. We compete really well. We actually
spent quite some amount of innovation and bought a lot of good products, new products over
the last two years, and we compete extremely well. But again, it's more lumpy, and it was, as
proud as we are after 2025 growth, we see the full fiscal year '26 given the top of compares
rather flat.
Q - `Daniel Arias, Analyst, Stifel `
Okay. And then maybe on China, I mean, I know no one thing changes the growth picture for you
guys, but how would you characterize the Pharmacopoeia opportunity over there that you talked
about a little bit last quarter just in terms of what might be tangible when it comes to demand,
and then when you think that purchasing might ramp up, if in fact it does.
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, that's a good question, Dan. Look, I mean, in China, again, we are really well positioned
with our team there where we have an outstanding portfolio, and Pharmacopoeia is one of the
opportunities, but we have seen some really good customer engagement also in Q3 and Q4 last
year. We expect this to continue, but it's not like a step change, right? This is continued upgrade
of existing balances and customers of -- customers' laps as they want to comply with things like
minimum wage requirements, et cetera. So I think it's supporting our ongoing growth in China
and the lab business in 2026, but it's not a huge step change that comes all at once.
Q - `Daniel Arias, Analyst, Stifel `
Yeah, makes sense. Okay. Thank you.Operator
Our next question comes from `Michael Ryskin, Analyst, Bank of America from Bank of America. Please go ahead.
Q - `Michael Ryskin, Analyst, Bank of America `
Great. Thanks for taking the question, and congrats on the quarter on the guide. First, I want to
touch on -- you've talked about the reshoring or onshoring capability -- opportunity a number of
times in the past, and you cited it again today. Just curious if you could give us an update on that,
any change in conversations or in tone? I know it's still really early, but just sort of what your sense
is on timing on when you might start seeing at least the beginning of this (multiple speakers) late
'26 or still more of a '27 and '28 dynamic?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Mike. Look, I mean, yes, there's a lot of good news, I would say out there. But think
about our product portfolio, I mean a lot of, significant part of our portfolio, over 50% of our
portfolio is actually for manufacturing. Then you have another 25%, or 20% to 25% for QA if you
see [ph]. If you think about this reshoring, homeshoring, specifically for pharma, I mean these
factories still have to be built, right, and then we come into play with our portfolio is to build it out.
So we see this more as a 2027 and beyond opportunity for us. Of course, it's important that we
are out there in discussion with our existing customers.
We help our existing customers a lot with our portfolio and make sure that they are well aware as
they plan then of building out of -- potential additional facilities in the US, to make sure that we
are the preferred supplier for these opportunities. And it's pharma, but it's also other areas. If
you think about the, for example, the battery segment and others. So they are around the world, I
would say, in the coming years, a lot of good opportunities when it comes to reshoring, where
customers build redundant setups to make sure that they also de-risk the setup that they had in
the past. And I see this for the coming years as a good opportunity, but we have not factored it in
as a big-growth opportunity for 2026. I think, it's still very early innings.
Q - `Michael Ryskin, Analyst, Bank of America `
Okay. All right. That's helpful. And then I want to touch a little bit on Europe. I feel that's been
doing a little bit better than expected. I think it stands out a little bit more for us in the last couple
of quarters despite tough comps. Can you just talk about what you see driving that on the ground
there and how sustainable that is going forward? Thanks.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Hey, Mike, maybe I'll take that one. So as I kind of was alluding to before, kind of coming
into the quarter, we were a little bit more cautious on Europe. We've been extremely proud of
our European organization over the years. If you just look at the economy in Europe, it's a softer
economy in the world in more recent times with PMIs kind of in the low 40s at times, and we've
continued to, I think, do extremely well with that kind of a backdrop. I think a lot of it, we benefit
from, of course, a strong organization, but also our Spinnaker program really allow -- with the
combination of us going most direct in Europe, I think allows us to also be a little bit more precise
in terms of that ability to gain a little bit of market share each year.
If we just kind of like look at the fourth quarter though, one thing that I mentioned before that
really stood out was our product inspection business. We just had really strong growth in that
business. And I think, it's a theme we've seen in other regions throughout the year, which is someof the innovation that we've introduced to the market, and recently has been just very well
received, and a lot of that innovation is really trying to go more specifically at the mid-market
segment, and we're doing quite well there. Otherwise, I'd say, we're competing well in the other
product categories in general, but with, I'd say, a more challenging backdrop in some of the other
regions.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Catherine Schulte, Analyst, Baird from Baird. Please go ahead.
Q - `Catherine Schulte, Analyst, Baird `
Hey guys, thanks for the questions. Maybe just on service, I think you said up 8% in the quarter,
6% organic. What's the outlook for that side of the business in '26, both including and excluding
acquisitions?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Do you want me to take it?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
So yeah, so yeah, you're correct, Catherine. So we grew 8% like looking at my notes to make
sure I got it right. We grew 8% in the quarter, 6% organic. As we kind of think about next year,
we're thinking about mid-to-high single-digit growth overall for the business for the first quarter
and the full year. And when you look at the first quarter, there's some acquisition growth in that.
So, Q1 would be more mid-single digit. I think the full year probably still rounds to mid-to-high
single digit. And as we've talked about in the past, we just continue to see service as a great
opportunity.
The team kind of recently celebrated the fact that they achieved $1 billion in sales for the first
time, and so that was a nice milestone. It's a business that we've been really focusing on in terms
of trying to penetrate. But, I think you're familiar, like if you look at the serviceable eye base that
we have available to us as an opportunity, it's about $3 billion. So, we've penetrated about one-
third, and we continue to see opportunities to go after that. And as we do that, we have been
putting additional resources into that business, and we continue to be optimistic kind of going
forward for the medium-to-long term here.
Q - `Catherine Schulte, Analyst, Baird `
Okay, great. And then for China, another quarter of modest growth there in the fourth quarter. It
sounds like maybe some easy comps in core industrial and lab about flat. Can you just unpack a
bit more what you're seeing in that market and the outlook for lab versus industrial in the low-
single guide for the year?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So yes, so China overall came in as expected. We're pleased with that. Yeah, we recognize
that industrial had an easier comparison, but we'll still take it. They actually had quite strong
growth in the quarter. When we kind of came out of the budget tour last year, kind of we were inChina in September. And one of the takeaways for me was you could just feel that there was a lot
more positive energy coming out of our industrial team. So, it's really kind of cool to actually see it
translating into results here. So I think, they're doing very well there at the moment, and that's
good in the context of an economy that still has some challenges.
And when you kind of cut through and look at the markets, one of the markets that really is doing
better there is the pharmaceutical end-market. We see that in both sides of the business. Maybe
the one area that is more challenging is on the chemical side. And for us, chemical means mostly
specialty chem, but that's a more challenging end-market at the moment. But when we look
forward to China for this year, we're still looking to guide in that low-single-digit range for Q1, for
the full year. Right now, I'd probably think lab and industrial will probably both be in that kind of a
range. Maybe some quarters better than others, depending how things play out here a little bit.
But big picture, I think we've had at least a year of things have moderated there. We've had
some modest growth. I think it's a good base hopefully to now grow on.
We're not building anything too significant to get over our skis. As we know, things in China can
change quickly in either direction, but hopefully, we'll start to see things pick up at some point.
And, I think, longer term, we still feel very optimistic. I think when you look at like the five-year plan
and you look at all the investments going into -- to the pharmaceutical industry and Life Science
industry in China, it's very encouraging, and then you look at some of these trends about GLP-1s
and the number of companies in China that are investing in that, it's also a good opportunity, just
as an example.
So, I think, our team is well positioned for that. As you know, we have a really great China for
China story with us making most of our products in China for China and selling mostly to Chinese
private companies. I think that's just a good setup for us, and we've always performed well there
relative to the market.
Q - `Catherine Schulte, Analyst, Baird `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Luke Sergott, Analyst, Barclays from Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `Luke Sergott, Analyst, Barclays `
Great. Thanks for the question, guys. I just wanted to kind of touch on some of the more of the
pharma side and also the A&G [ph] weakness that you talked about. And also, I guess part of that
in 4Q was the biotech weakness as well. So we're starting to see some green shoots in biotech,
pharma is doing a lot more M&A, and I know that it's probably going to track a different cycle than
obviously the clinical research. But how are you guys thinking about when that funding starts
coming back, and where in that cycle would you guys start to see some of the pickup, or if this
biotech or like the early-stage pharma where you're seeing weakness now is more just
associated with kind of the academic funding environment?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Maybe I'd take that. Look at -- We're, I think, quite excited about the overall biopharma and
specifically biopharma processing activities that are going on, and Shawn made a comment here
on GLP-1 and others. I think that's actually where we see good momentum in the market, almost
around the world. So that's what I would say is a growth driver for us as well. When youmentioned academia and government and biotech, we have actually pretty small exposure in
other areas, mainly in the area of liquid handling and with the pipette business, et cetera.
Otherwise, we are not really prominent in that segment.
And it's hard to say when we really would see a pickup there. It, of course, depends on some real
good funding that should come back into the biotech and academia area. Again, we would see
that on the pipette business. So if that is just picking up again and right now, we saw that business
in Q4 still a little bit under pressure. I think it was slightly declining in Q4. And we have to wait and
see again when the funding is really coming back and when we see more momentum, but that's -
- I think, we'd say that the indicator there for us would be more on the pipette business. But as a
reminder, it's a smaller part above all our business.
Q - `Luke Sergott, Analyst, Barclays `
Got you. And then one for Shawn. On the GMs, and I understand there is a completely fluid tariff
environment for you guys, but more generally, we've kind of seen this kind of tick down in gross
margins across the space. And is there a dynamic going on with you guys where your tariff
mitigation efforts outside of pricing, those are ongoing, and then you're starting to get some
pressure here from your suppliers, and there's just going to be a mismatch between timing of
when you can pass that on to your customers. Is that just trying to figure out where this kind of
ultimately shakes out, or for you guys just being forced right now to kind of eat it until things
normalize?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
No, actually, we're doing quite well in terms of managing the input costs. I think the SternDrive
program has really been helping us out. That program has a lot of sophistication, like a lot of our
programs when it comes to like digital capabilities and our ability to like really look at what should
something cost. So, it's called should costing, and we can like really diagnose the opportunities
that we can leverage, as we as we look at our cost structure.
I think what is making -- what was already a confusing year with tariffs more confusing is that
currencies have changed quite a lot more here in the second half of the year, and I was trying to
explain that earlier in the call, but I wouldn't dismiss that, right? Like it's like a 70 basis-point
headwind to gross margin in Q4. And as I mentioned before, we're going to see that kind of carry
forward to the first half of next year.
And then some of these recent acquisitions, while on an OP basis, they are fine. Just when you
start to look at some mix effects, we start to get a little bit of unfavorable mix in terms of gross
margins, kind of like the way you think about the service business, right? It's like good when it
comes to OP. But in terms of gross margin, it might be a little bit dilutive, and that's because a lot
of these recent acquisitions were distributors, which were largely service businesses, and then
any incremental product sales is going to be smaller just by the virtue of the fact that they were a
distribution partner.
But when you kind of cut through all that, like I was trying to say, I don't know if we got into this
before or not, but like if you cut through FX and you cut through the organic -- the acquisition
side, the organic gross margin was down 20 basis points for the quarter and for the full year. And
that's despite a very significant gross headwind on tariffs, right? It was like 190 bps in the quarter.
And if you think about it, while we were mitigating things throughout the year, we did have this
topic of the Swiss tariffs that kicked in at 39%, and then we were going to have -- we're having to
absorb that during the fourth quarter. So the step-down to 15% tariff rate in Swiss tariffs, that'smaybe a little bit of bleeding into the first part of Q1, just given stuff that was maybe in inventory
already. So hope that helps a little bit.
Q - `Luke Sergott, Analyst, Barclays `
Yeah. It does. Thank you.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, thanks.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Tycho Peterson, Analyst, Jefferies from Jefferies. Please go ahead.
Q - `Tycho Peterson, Analyst, Jefferies `
Hey, thanks. I wanted to dive in a little more on the industrial strength product inspection. Shawn, I
appreciate your comments that some of this is new product intros and opening up the mid-tier
market. Is there any way to kind of delineate how much of this is kind of broader market recovery
versus actually opening up new markets? And then, I know in the past, you've talked about
replacement cycle here, in particular, the industrial portfolio well positioned. Is that business
benefiting at all from replacement cycle at this point?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President & Chief Executive Officer `
I'll take that, Tycho,. I think the growth you're seeing in our product inspection business, we
cannot point here to any underlying market recovery or market strength. Actually, we think the
market is still under considerable pressure, the food market, but we are really -- so I would say,
very well positioned with our portfolio and all the innovations we have pushed across the
portfolio, whether it was in X-ray detection and in checkweighing, and there's more to come.
Again, we have a clear dedicated plan to not only dominate the high-end, but also attack the mid-
range market that strategy is playing out really well.
So, yeah, I would say it's mostly innovation about the growth that you see there. And when it
comes to the installed base and replacement market, what we are seeing across the board,
across the portfolio, and that is not only true for the product inspection businesses. We see a
little bit of aging of installed base. I think, we have now seen probably two years of subdued
replacement. And what it needs really for that to pick up is what I mentioned in the beginning is
more certainty in the market, more confidence of customers that they can invest.
I mean, they, of course, cannot hold off forever, but I think once the market gets a bit more stable
and there's more certainty in the market and less noise, we will see a gradual pickup again in the
replacement business to more normal levels and probably also a bit more, but it will not be again
a step change. This will be a gradual phasing in of the replacement business again.
Q - `Tycho Peterson, Analyst, Jefferies `
Okay. That's helpful. And then following up on the pharma onshoring, reshoring comments earlier,
I appreciate that's more of a '27 and beyond story. Fair to assume lab will see that later, but
maybe you'll see it on the industrial side earlier, weighing in dimensioning for transport, logistics,
things like that.
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President & Chief Executive Officer `Yeah. Yeah, that's a good way to think about it. As you know, for these onshoring reshoring, of
course. Also, we work with industrial partners with automation solution providers that use our
equipment. And I think they will pick up for as they prepare for the manufacturing and solutions
there, the automation lines and everything that is needed and also our own products for
production and then lab, including the QA/QC products that we deliver for these markets will be
probably a bit later.
Q - `Tycho Peterson, Analyst, Jefferies `
Okay. And then maybe just one last one on bioprocess. I know it's a smaller part of the business.
Maybe just touch on what you're seeing there? How do volumes look, and what are you baking in
this year?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
I'm sorry, Tycho, can you repeat the question?
Q - `Tycho Peterson, Analyst, Jefferies `
Yeah. Just bioprocessing, in consumable single use, can you just talk a little bit about volumes,
and what you're baking in on the bioprocessing side this year?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Hey, so we didn't bake in specific guidance for it, but certainly on the bioprocessing side,
we had a very strong fourth quarter, especially when we, geographically we look at the Americas,
the US bioprocessing did especially well. Single-use also did particularly well in that market as well
too. You know, we kind of look at that as an above-average growth driver in the lab business, and
certainly feel good about the momentum there kind of carrying in and through 2026.
Operator
Our next question comes from Doug Schenkel from Wolfe Research. Please go ahead.
Q - `Douglas Schenkel, Analyst, Wolfe Research
Hey guys, thank you for taking the questions. So, I guess another question on lab. I think in Tycho's
last question, he got the bioprocessing component there. But again, Q4 results came in pretty
well ahead of estimates. You grew solid mid-single digits on a really tough comp, and you
accelerated on a two-year stack basis. What would you call out as driving the underlying
improvement? Yes, so not just in process analytics and bioprocessing, but more broadly, what's
driving underlying improvement? Did you see any signs of budget flush? And then I'm just kind of
underlying in there, was there anything that you would call out in terms of just a change in trend in
key end-markets? Thank you.
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I think, Doug, in terms of the pharma, biopharma market overall, it's a little bit just
biopharma processing, which is more on the process analytics piece. And then to your question
regarding the budget flush, we have seen, I would say, some budget flushing, it's always hard for
us to clearly assess how much is budget flush, but we have seen some better momentum
towards the very end of the quarter, which points to a budget flush, and that was also affecting
the lab portfolio. So, we saw some flush coming there as well.I mean, if you think about lab and where we play and how we play, a lot of it is also linked to our
strong software solution that we have there with LabX, which really helps us to connect a broader
portfolio of our products in either R&D labs or QA/QC labs, it helps our customers to also
automate more workflows. And I think, that's kind of the trend that we see overall that helps us to
compete very effectively and drives momentum also forward. That's something where we have
really a stronghold, where we invest a lot to not only drive automation in the industrial piece, but
also on the lab side. And I think, that's probably one of the things that also helps us to pick up
more momentum in the market.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Dan Leonard, Analyst, UBS from UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Dan Leonard, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you very much. Hi, Patrick, hi Shawn. I want to revisit, Patrick, the comments you made on
your emerging market view. You commented that you have an expectation for above-market
sales growth from emerging markets. And I want to clarify, does that comment include China? Or
were you speaking to emerging markets outside of China?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Very good question, Dan. Yeah, and thanks for that question. I think it's an important one.
We really speak about outside of China. So we expect for the emerging markets, which we also
said in the meantime, make about 18% of our total revenues versus China is more like 15% or 16%
of total revenues but above-average growth and above corporate growth rate is specifically
pointing towards the emerging markets ex-China.
Q - `Dan Leonard, Analyst, UBS `
I appreciate that clarification then. And then what is your updated view on growth in China over
the medium term? Is that fleet accretive or fleet neutral?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So, hey, we're not necessarily formally updating guidance on China. I think we are very
optimistic still about the medium-to-long term. We clearly acknowledge that it doesn't need to
grow at the rates that it grew in the pre-COVID era. The last time we updated our algorithm for
growth, we were kind of looking at high-single digits for China, but sitting here today would be
very comfortable if it was mid-single digit with our ability to still hit our 6% plus long-term sales
growth algorithm. And just as one example, the emerging markets outside of China are now
bigger than China, and we kind of see a lot of growth opportunity there. But there's also a lot of
other things going on inside the company that we feel good about.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Jack Meehan, Analyst, Nephron Research from Nephron Research. Please go ahead.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Analyst, Nephron Research `
Thank you. Hi, everyone. I had a couple of questions on core industrial. The first is called out
seeing some signs of life on the PMI side. I was just curious in that context, can you unpack the
first quarter guide? I think you're assuming flat growth. Is there some timing dynamics going on or
just piece those together for me?A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So yeah, you're right. I mean it's definitely a little bit of a step down here from what we did
in the second half of 2025. I think as we kind of look at it, is a little -- out of all of our businesses, it
has a little bit more sensitivity to the economy. Some of the recent PMIs, nice to see the direction.
Certainly, there's a lag in terms of when we would see that in our business. Kind of as a reminder,
about 60% of core industrial is sold into a combination of pharma, biopharma, food
manufacturing, and chemical. And out of those three sectors, the chemical sector, it has been
under more pressure this year, probably expect it to continue to be under pressure in Q1.
And we're just assuming as the typical company starts the year, they're just going to be a little bit
more cautious with how they release funds. And we'll see how it plays out. As you know, we only
sit on one and half months of backlog typically at any point in time. So, but that's just kind of how
we were thinking about it when we guided at last quarter for this year. We've tried to try to
communicate on that, that we wouldn't be surprised if things start off a little bit slower this year,
and certainly that's how we feel sitting here today.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Analyst, Nephron Research `
So got it. Okay. And let's say there's a scenario where we continue to see positive trends on the
PMI front. Can you talk about -- just remind us like what the drop-through is, like if we did see
incremental organic growth, what the flow-through would be on the margin line?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
I think on the core industrial side, it's going to be right around corporate average. It depends, of
course, what part of the portfolio you're in, but like if you're into the part of the portfolio that's
really servicing, you know, serving the opportunities regarding automation and digitalization,
which is the faster-growing sector, that's above corporate average. But some of the stuff that's a
little bit more cyclical tends to be below corporate average.
Operator
Our next question comes from Josh Waldman from Cleveland Research Please go ahead.
Q - `Joshua Waldman, Analyst, Cleveland Research
Hey, good morning. Thanks for fitting me in. One for Shawn and then one for Patrick. I think,
Shawn, can you talk through how you're thinking about the organic growth progression through
the latter three quarters of the year? I guess, are you factoring in a larger than normal ramp off of
the Q1 to get to the full year? And then on the embedded caution to start the year, I guess, are
you seeing this in the order book when you consider normal kind of order seasonality for
January?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So, hey, maybe I'll take the first part of the question up first. So I think if you look at our
ramp-up, it's not like a significant ramp. Like, yes, we're going to be down a little bit organic
volume in Q1 per our guidance. But if you like look at the second half of the year, it probably
implies something in the 2% kind of a range in terms of organic growth. Now in the second half of
the year, we'll have a little bit less pricing and a little bit less acquisition benefit. So, that number
might not be as high as just simply adding the increment of organic volume. But that's kind of likehow I would probably see it sitting here today, but certainly wouldn't want to get into specific
quarters.
I think, every year is the same and this year is no different, and probably even has a little bit less
visibility, as you started just given all the volatility from last year, but we're going to learn a lot
more here over the next couple of months. And I think, once we get through the full quarter, we'll
have a much better perspective on what Q2 looks like and what the rest of the year looks like.
And then in terms of orders like, hey, we never comment on months and particularly just in Q1, I
mean, January is always a goofy month, right? February is a goofy month, Chinese New Year
timings, seasonality wise, these are lower months in the year. So, we'll see.
And like I said before, we only sit on about one and half months worth of backlog. So, we'll see
how it plays out. And we're executing well. We feel really good about how we're positioned. We
have, I think, a really good balance of looking at growth opportunities and also keeping an eye on
productivity topics, and we'll continue to have that balance going forward.
Q - `Joshua Waldman, Analyst, Cleveland Research
Got it. Okay. And then, Patrick, on service, I think you said the Group reached $1 billion in sales.
Can you remind us how that's dispersed across the lab and industrial segments? And then in the
past, I think you've talked about service as an area of strategic investment. And I wondered if you
could talk through what you see as the near-term opportunities in service to drive incremental
share growth on the hardware side.
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, very good. Thanks, Josh. Yeah, look, I'm very excited about services and also the growth
rates we have seen over the last few years. We made a really conscious decision to over-invest in
service as well and drive that opportunity. As Shawn said, we currently cover about one-third of
the installed base. There's ample of opportunity for us to continue to cover more of that with
strategic programs. We are making good progress. When you think about the breakdown
between industrial and lab, for example, that's almost a longer revenue line because in industrial,
you would have to differentiate between, for example, PI where do you have a stronger service
business, versus core industrial, that's a little bit less, but I think it almost balances it out across
the portfolio in terms of the contribution and comparison to the product business. But we are
very excited about where we stand. It's a great strategic program for us as a company, and we
are of course, super proud that the team achieved is a major milestone of $1 billion revenues in
services.
Q - `Joshua Waldman, Analyst, Cleveland Research
Great. Thank you.
Operator
That concludes the question-and-answer session. I would now like to turn the call back over to
`Adam Uhlman, Head of Investor Relations for closing remarks.
A - `Adam Uhlman, Head of Investor Relations `
Hey, thanks everybody for joining us today and for your excellent questions. Please feel free to
reach out if you have any follow-ups, and have a great weekend. Take care. Bye.This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.