Y 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Ben Lu, VP of IR `
Good morning. Welcome to Logitech's video call to discuss our Financial Results for the Fourth
Quarter and Full Fiscal Year of 2021. Joining us today are Bracken Darrell, our President and CEO;
and `Nathan Olmstead, CFO, our CFO. During this call, we may make forward-looking statements,
including with respect to future operating results under the safe harbor of the Private Securities
Litigation React of 1995. We're making these statements based on our views only as of today.
Our actual results could differ materially. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any of
these statements. We will also discuss non-GAAP financial results. You can find a reconciliation
between non-GAAP and GAAP results and information about our use of non-GAAP measures and
factors that could impact our financial results in our press release and in our filings with the SEC,
including our most recent annual and quarterly reports and subsequent filings. These materials as
well as our prepared remarks and slides and a webcast of this call are all available at the Investor
Relations page of our website. We encourage you to review these materials carefully. Unless
noted otherwise, comparisons between periods are year-over-year and in constant currency and
sales are net sales. This call is being recorded and will be available for a replay on our website. I'll
now turn the call over to Bracken.
`Bracken P. Darrell, President `
Thank you, Ben. Thanks to all of you for joining us. I want to start by saying I'm as worried about
India as I could possibly be in a year or whatever it's been now, where this pandemic is raged on. I
think we've had fears that have affected every person on this call and more. But in some ways, I
was always so worried about India for all the reasons you can imagine. I'm afraid it's happening.
But I hope and pray that they really get it back under control quickly -- and that the rest of the
world continues to improve step-by-step and escape this pandemic.
Well the pandemic continues to disrupt our daily lives. And as I said, in some countries it's even
getting tragically worse. It's -- we're starting to emerge from the strict shelter in place
requirement here where I'm sitting today in California and actually broadly in the U.S. We've been
thinking -- that's got us thinking even more -- maybe more accurately about what a return to the
office might look like as the pandemic subsides.Some of the behaviors that were formed during the pandemic are clearly going to endure. Video
callings meteoric rise will not reverse. Most calls are moving permanently to video. A place in your
house, having one for each person to work or to study or to be both, they're here to stay. We're
all going to have places in our home. While gaming was popular long before they pandemic,
people are using it more and more for social interaction. Many of us noticed this first during the
Fortnite phenomenon a few years ago.
This year, gaming took on and even -- took an even bigger step toward prominence in our
culture. The number of podcasts, funny videos, thank God, streamers and creators continue to
grow throughout the pandemic, emboldening more and more people to think maybe they could
get in that streaming act and create video for other people or audio. None of that is new for our
strategy. While our long-term strategy is unchanged, our opportunities have changed. They're
bigger and they're broader. On top of that, we now have a bigger, more profitable base to grow
from. Let me briefly give you a few external examples that illustrate the acceleration of the
secular trends that affect us. These illustrations might help you see what we see, long-term
growth. Let's start with the trend of video everywhere and working from home and office. Citi
group announced that most of its employees will be designated as hybrid workers who will spend
at least three days of work in the office and up to two days in home.
That's just 1 of many companies that have announced similar plans. More and more will follow
over the coming weeks and months. In fact, even surveys from early in the pandemics showed
that companies are beginning to think then about hybrid. CBRE, 1 of the largest commercial real
estate operators in the world, noted in a survey last September that 61% -- remember, this is last
September, 61% of companies were already back then planning to offer a hybrid work
arrangement. I suspect that number is even higher now. And 1 of the key reasons the companies
are going to hybrid work is, well, it's obvious to all of you on the call now because we like it. We,
who are working at home, want it. JLL, another commercial real estate operator, said in a survey
that 72% of workers view work like ballots as their number1 priority post-COVID, ahead of a
comfortable salary even.
I've spoken with many executives over the past year. Since the onset of COVID, most, until
recently, have really had no plan for how to return to work. Now plans are starting to form. Short
term, a story that's come to everyone is a few days in the office and a few days at home. They
need video in their offices to keep their remote, but connected teams working well. Things go
beyond hybrid work.
Last week, Apple was just the latest major company to identify podcasts as a growth platform
with podcast subscriptions, which will allow creators to sell subscriptions to their podcast listeners.
On top of that, streaming is soaring. Social audio, like Clubhouse, has suddenly taken off, and
there are more and more creators, making it seem like a feasible and attractive thing for even
more and more would be creators to do. The network effect is so powerful. We make the tools
that enable existing creators to do it better and be more effective, and for new creators to try it.
In Gaming, it's bigger than it's ever been. And as I said, it's become the place to meet for more
and more people socially. What does all this mean for Logitech?
More video enabled rooms, more video enabled workspaces that need to be equipped and
upgraded with our growing portfolio of offerings, more streamers and more creators looking for
more equipment, more gamers looking for better gear. Before I go further, let me say that you
might never have another analyst call from Logitech without an update on either our quest to be
environmentally sustainable are our actions in diversity, equity and inclusion. But in some cases,
you're going to hear about both.These are so central to Logitech's purpose. This quarter, we announced the availability of the
previously announced carbon label products we talked about. First, we know of in the tech world.
We're 1 of very few companies in the world to commit to this on every single product in an effort
to reduce global carbon output by setting a new industry standard, just as calorie labels have
impacted the food industry. In the process, we developed a life cycle analysis methodology to
measure a product's carbon impact from its raw materials to its manufacturing and transportation
to use by the customer consumer and then, finally, to the end of life. We're sharing our learnings
and third-party certified methodology to any company, any competitor anywhere in the world for
no price at all for free.
I encourage you to ask companies, as you're talking to them, if they're considering carbon
labeling. Don't do it because we ask you to now, do it because it's part of a program that will
enable the earth to keep the earth healthy for your Kids, and your grandkids.
Now let's turn to our financial results. Logitech delivered the best year in our history, with fiscal
year 2021 sales up 74% and operating income more than tripling to $1.3 billion. What drove those
impressive results was not just 1 category or a onetime pull forward. These results were broad-
based across virtually all our categories and regions, including countries that never fully locked
down and those that are furthest along with their post-COVID recovery programs. Said another
way the secular trends we keep talking about are really secular and they're still secular. They will
keep growing.
Our PC Peripherals categories were already growing consistently every year, but they increased
over 50% in fiscal year 2021 to $1.9 billion. To be candid, we always felt there was potential to
grow more in these categories than we were, but we were held back by (inaudible) awareness of
some of our premium mice and keyboards, for example, MX masseter and anywhere, I'm using
the MX Master right now, which participate in the premium into the category. Analysts, coders and
creators should be using these products, but the awareness has always been limited.
I bet many of you on this call, don't even realize how outstanding these products are. Nate and I
were talking about this again last night. It was only when hybrid work and remote learning
expanded, and we began to be able to invest in awareness that demand for premium price -- of
premium mice and premium keyboards began to accelerate.
We also have an even faster-growing alternative, ergonomic products for those who need
comfort. WEBCAMS, needless to say have shown their highest growth -- showing the highest
growth, more than tripling versus a year ago. While we've been supply-constrained through most
of fiscal year 2021 and have admittedly lost some share because of it, we expect to close the
gap between in market demand and our ability to fulfill it in fiscal 2022. But let me put this
opportunity in perspective on WEBCAMS, CNBC WEBCAMS.
We shipped less than 20 million units in the entire year of fiscal year 2021, the 1 we're talking
about today against an installed base of 500 million monitors and 1.4 billion PCs. You can see that
we still have vast opportunities ahead of us to drive greater attach rates. But what excites us
even more is the increase in the number of workspaces as more companies shift to hybrid work.
As we noted at our recent Analyst and Investor Day our internal survey suggests a 2x to 3x
increase in the number of people who will work more than two days at home and the other day is
in the office. This means more mice, keyboards, WEBCAMS, speakers, headsets, mics. You can
expect us to continue to innovate across our product portfolio, like the MX line of mice and
keyboards for enhanced productivity, or our mainstream license keyboards focused on lifestyle
and design, or those ergonomic products I talked about. Combined with that, combine that withour increased investments in marketing, which you now know we're putting in to create greater
user awareness and consideration for how something as simple as a $50 mouse or keyboard can
drastically improve your PC experience, your workspace experience at home or in the office, or
both.
You could start to see why we're so excited about this category for the next several years. Now
let me talk about another big growth category for us, video collaboration. Sales almost tripled in
fiscal year 2021 to over $1 billion for the first time. Our Q4 VC sales were more than what we did
in all of last fiscal year. Our growth actually accelerated through the quarters of fiscal '21 as supply
improved and more companies started to map out their return to the work -- return to the office.
That represents a clear trend toward turning on video to connect with friends, coworkers, clients
and others. Triple-digit growth in this category was across both our conference room video
products as well as our personal collaboration products, such as the enterprise 4K Brio Webcam
or the Zoom wireless headset. We're also very excited about the opportunities for our most
recently announced all-in-one devices, the Rally Bar and the Rally Bar Mini. They are just starting to
roll out to great customer feedback.
Our Gaming category also had a very strong year, with fiscal 2021 sales up 77% and sales more
than doubling in Q4. The growth was broad-based across all our Gaming categories, including PC
gaming, simulation, console gaming and all of our regions. Not only has the gaming market
expanded significantly over the past year, we've also reached our highest level ever in overall
gaming market share. I'm extremely proud of all the innovation and products that we, our teams
have been able to introduce despite the shelter in place mandates around the world.
Our colorful and playful G733 gaming headset, developed by Tiffany Beers and her team, has
quickly become 1 of our best-selling gaming headsets. While our newest ProX Superlight gaming
mice, mouse, had 1 of our fastest post-launch sales ramps since it was introduced just six months
ago. These are just 2 of the many new products that supported our growth and share gains in
fiscal year 2021.
Tablet and other accessories also had a tremendous year, with sales up almost 3x, while our
tablet keyboards for education we're up over 7x. Schools around the world have needed new
technology tools to deliver education to students remotely. And as we noted last quarter, a large
onetime order from a Japanese school district drove a significant part of our tablet sales for the
year. Even excluding this, our overall tablet sales growth was up triple digits, and our traditional
retail tablet sales were up over 50% for the fiscal year.
Our audio and wearables sales grew 69% in fiscal 2021, led by retail headsets and blue
microphones. And mobile speakers were down 22% for the full year, but that's in line with our
expectations as we reallocated and prioritized our investments in other fast-growing markets.
Now let me turn the call over to you, Nate, to walk through our key financial metrics.
`Nathan Olmstead, CFO
Okay. Thanks, Bracken. We finished an excellent year on a high note with our Fourth Quarter sales
more than doubling and with broad-based growth across all our categories and geographies. As
Bracken said, fiscal 2021 sales reached $5.3 billion, up 74%, which exceeded our recently revised
guidance of 63% growth. This represents over $300 million of sales upside compared to that
recent guidance. And as Bracken will cover later, we are maintaining our growth rate outlook for
FY '22, and therefore, effectively flowing through this FY '21 revenue upside. Our non-GAAP
operating income more than tripled to over $1.27 billion, higher than our previous outlook of $1.1Our fiscal '21 non-GAAP gross margin reached 44.8%, up over 6percentage points from last year,
almost 5 points of that was due to lower promotional spending and lower retail point-of-sale
activations. We do expect, however that these promotions and marketing activities will increase
and return to more historical levels in fiscal '22, putting some downward pressure on gross
margin in the months ahead. Product mix was favorable this year, and we expect it will remain
favorable to margin again next year, somewhat offsetting the pressure I just mentioned. What all
this means is that our FY '22 gross margin should land within our recently revised and increased
target range of 39% to 44%. Our non-GAAP operating expenses increased 44% in fiscal '21 to $1.1
billion. As our business growth solidified and accelerated, we invested across many areas,
including hardware and software innovation, go-to-market expansion and marketing. All of these
investments had limited FY '21 revenue impact, but prime the business for future potential
growth. In addition to conventional capabilities, we also invested more deeply in environmental
sustainability in our own manufacturing and with all our supply chain partners. These are all areas
of strategic importance, and where we will continue to invest in the new fiscal year.
Finally, you will notice that our G&A spending increased sequentially in Q4 due to a $30 million
investment into a charitable donor advised fund to support our long-term social giving strategies
for equality and environmental sustainability. The net result of these business dynamics and
operating decisions was strong profit growth and operating margin expansion for both Q4 and
fiscal '21 overall, and improved capabilities for the longer term.
Now let me talk briefly about our cash flow. Cash flow from operations reached nearly $1.5 billion
for the full year, up from $425 million in fiscal '20, driven by profit growth and efficient working
capital management. We maintain a tight linkage and alignment between our business strategies,
operational decisions and financial structure. You saw this at work in fiscal 2021 as our strong
profitability, balance sheet and cash flow allowed us to invest aggressively in additional
manufacturing, supply and logistics. We were able to invest at a pace and level that provided us a
competitive advantage as demonstrated by recent share gains in several categories.
We will continue the strategic investment approach as we head into the new fiscal year, and we
navigate a dynamic supply environment, which may lead to higher component and logistics costs
than we initially projected. Positively, our efforts to find second sources and increased
manufacturing output have allowed us to begin the new year with owned and channel inventory
at healthier levels than in recent quarters.
Our inventory is fresh and weighted toward fast-turning product categories. At the same time,
longer industry lead times and tightening supply for some components will likely increase our
cash conversion cycle in FY '22, but our strong balance sheet positions us well in the face of these
challenges. Wrapping up uses of cash, we spent $43 million in the quarter on 3 small acquisitions,
all in the content creation category. We do not expect them to be material to our fiscal '22
financial results, but we believe they will help us realize the growth potential of this fast-growing
market over the longer term.
In closing, while we do not expect this past year's record sales growth rates and margins to
continue, we do believe our sales volume gains are sustainable and that our long-term market
opportunities have become more attractive and we plan to invest accordingly. With that, it's a
good time to hand things back to Bracken, who will talk about our fiscal '22 outlook and guidance.
Bracken?
`Bracken P. Darrell, President `
Thank, Nate, to wake me up again. It's early here in California. As they quantified for everyonecourse we gave you back on our Analyst and Investor Day in March. With not even a month into
the fiscal year, I don't think anyone would have felt that, at this point, if we had maintained the
same sales dollar outlook for fiscal year 2022 that we guided just two months ago. Had we've
done that, it would have meant that our fiscal year 2022 sales forecast today would be down 2%
to down 11% compared to down 5% to up 5% that we guided. But we're not holding to our dollar
outlook.
We are passing through that sales dollar upside, and we are keeping our down 5% to up 5%
sales growth outlook for the fiscal year 2022 unchanged, essentially raising the absolute dollar
value of our original sales outlook by about 7%. We feel confident and equally excited about what
the new year will bring us and even more optimistic about the longer-term growth potential
beyond fiscal year 2022. As we hold our top line growth guidance, we're increasing our fiscal year
2022 non-GAAP operating income guidance to $800 million to $850 million versus the prior
outlook of $750 million to $800 million.
Finally, we also announced that our Board approved an increase in our share buyback
authorization from $250 million to $1 billion. The Board also proposed a 10% increase in our
dividend, which will be voted on by shareholders in September. The bottom line is the same
underlying trends that drove our business pre-COVID, significantly accelerated during COVID and
have become much more pervasive and sustainable as we look to life after the shelter-at-home
period of COVID ends. We have an exciting long-term growth potential ahead from this big base.
With that, Nate and I are ready to take your questions. Ben, can you queue them up?
Questions And Answers
A - `Ben Lu, VP of IR `
Paul from JPMorgan.
Q - `Paul Chung, Analyst, JPMorgan Chase & Co `
You great quarter. So on BC, you've seen this business grow annually at 40% CAGR for the past
five years and then this year accelerate 180% in the sixth year. As we look ahead in the next five
years, what are some of the growth levers you see today that you can pull in? And Europe was
the standout this quarter, what's kind of driving the acceleration there? Then I have a follow-up.
A - `Bracken P. Darrell, President `
Yes. I would say a couple of things. So first of all, Europe, part of the reason for the delta in our
sell-in and sell-out is part of Europe, and we were fulfilling a backlog. So we had strong sales
there. I would say overall, I think the key drivers over the next five years are going to be the same
drivers that have gotten us here with 1 big exception, which is, I think we took a huge step-up this
year and the realization that video calling is just a must.
We always said it would be video everywhere at some point, but we didn't quite realize that
there would be this strong advertising program for video calling that would happen during the
pandemic, and it's happened. Now it's really going to be a question of how effectively and
efficiently can people video enable offices while they continue to be enable workspaces. I think
that's going to happen over the next 5, 7, 10 years.
A - `Nathan Olmstead, CFO
I mean Paul, I think on -- I'm just adding to that a little bit. I mean I think the growth levers there.out our own portfolio, you see us investing a lot in innovation. And a lot of that is focused on just
increasing the types of solutions, the effectiveness of the solutions that we can offer to
customers in video as well as our own go-to-market capabilities and operational capabilities.
These are all things that were areas of investment for us in FY '21, and as I mentioned, we will
continue to invest in FY '22 and beyond.
Q - `Paul Chung, Analyst, JPMorgan Chase & Co `
Okay. Great. Then just on marketing, how are you tracking that return on that dollar spend,
obviously besides the revenue growth you saw in the quarter? Can you provide some feedback
on the 5 logic campaign during the Super Poly? Did you see kind of an immediate lift? Then what
kind of marketing campaign should we expect heading into FY '22?
A - `Bracken P. Darrell, President `
Yes, there are different kinds of marketing. There's the kind of marketing like we did in the Super
Bowl, which is really what they call top of funnel. That's kind of broad and general and not really
designed to immediately sell specific product, but to create awareness and attraction for the
brand itself and the categories that we're in. Then there's the very, very kind of search engine
optimization, click and buy kind of marketing. So there are different kinds of metrics across those
different areas. We look at them all. I would say overall, we feel very, very good about the de
(inaudible) campaign. We're excited about the kind of impact it's having both -- even just
anecdotally. I probably have had -- I can't even tell you how many people have reached out to me
and said that they -- it really -- that they were surprised by the campaign, but somehow fell very
consistent with what Logitech has always been, which is exactly what we wanted. So you can
expect more of us there. And in terms of the more tactical sales oriented, we look at things like
everyone else does, return on ad spend. And we try to make sure that we're investing where the
returns are the highest.
A - `Nathan Olmstead, CFO
Paul, I would say in terms of areas of focus, it's across the board. But as Bracken mentioned, I
think awareness is 1 that I just feel so strongly about for our categories. If you read the product
reviews really across the lineup, great reviews. People who try the products, love the products,
and they recognize like the enhanced experience that they provide. I'll just give you an example,
something like our MXkey is kind of the premium keyboard that we launched this last year, which
has done so well. It's a $100 product. If you use that over two years, you're paying about $0.15 a
day for something that is -- you're using constantly and really improves your experience. So I think
there's a big opportunity for us around awareness, and Bracken mentioned some of the things
we're doing there. But I would expect to see more from us to drive the awareness of big
categories in general.
A - `Ben Lu, VP of IR `
`Asiya Merchant, Analyst, Citigroup Inc..
Q - `Asiya Merchant, Analyst, Citigroup Inc. `
Great a congratulations on an outstanding quarter again. A couple of questions on my part.
Visibility, I know you guys are kind of maintaining your growth expectations flat, plus or minus. But
how much visibility now do you have into the next couple of quarters? If you can talk to it a little bit
sequentially at least here into June and then maybe even to the September quarter? Then just
high level new shortages that is enabling people to add on excess inventory, whether it's in thechannel, whether it's sitting on the shelves. When do you expect that sell-in, sell-through to reach
a more balanced environment? Is that even as you look out into the next couple of quarters?
Then one for Nate on the gross margin. You talked about the promo pricing returning to a more
normalized level. When do you expect that? I would assume semi-shortages and other shortages
in general would suggest that pricing remains more muted or promotional price remains more
muted. That's it for me.
A - `Bracken P. Darrell, President `
Nate, why don't I jump -- I'll take the first 2, and then you can take the third 1 and I can add to what
I'm saying. In terms of the balance of the inventory kind of balance of the channel inventory, et
cetera, we're just about there. I mean I feel -- I think we were -- we kind of ran behind most of the
pandemic year trying to fill the channel. This time, we got -- I think we finally started to catch up
this last quarter. I think we're about there. We'll see. We could have a few additional spots that
were a little weak. But generally, I think we're there. In terms of visibility, I think our -- I would say
the visibility this quarter is good. The visibility into the next quarter, as you go further out, of
course it gets less and less clear for us. But we're optimistic. We're -- I would say it's a little less
visible now than it would have been in a normal year because just a particularly strong -- the real
strength we've had in the last 3 or 4 quarters. But we feel very, very good about our own
programs.
We have such control over what we're doing and the timing of our product launches and things. I
think the tricky part of -- if there is a tricky part of that, maybe the trickiest part is just availability of
parts. We've always been able to manage component availability well, and we continue to do that
really well, but it is not a secret that things like chipsets and things are really hand to mouth in
some of the categories we're in and in the industry broadly. So that could always take us a little
bit by surprise. So we've been able to manage that very, very well, historically, and I think we'll do
it in the future. You want to add anything on any of that or on gross or on my answer the gross
margin?
A - `Nathan Olmstead, CFO
Yes. I can cover gross margin. My Zoom Crash, mid-stream there, but back up. I think on gross
margin, pricing and promotion and the retail point-of-sale marketing, those are really important
parts to our business. Those are things that we have to do.
We will see an increase in those activities, I believe, in FY '22. There's a lot of forces at play
though, on margin, and bracken just alluded to some of the ones around the component
availability, and you asked about supply chain. I think headwinds could also persist in terms of
logistics because if materials are late arriving, and we have to rush those things, those finished
goods to market, we could continue to see elevated logistics costs. Also, I think just component
pricing could be a challenge in certain areas in FY '22 as well.
So there's -- again competing forces, favorable, unfavorable product mix, I believe, will continue
to be favorable with faster growth in places like video collaboration. But nonetheless, we think the
gross margins will land within that new range that we provided AID, a new increased range that
we provided at AID, but down from levels that we saw here in FY '21.
Q - `Asiya Merchant, Analyst, Citigroup Inc. `
Any color on sequential stuff? You typically provide some color on sequential into the June, which
is any color there? I up mid-single digits, yes.A - `Nathan Olmstead, CFO
Yes. I would say in general, I don't think in FY '21 sequential historical trends sort of were
irrelevant. I think that, that could also be true here in FY '22. I just think we're in still an unusual
environment with many economies going through transitions as hopefully, they begin to reopen
to sort of pre covet normalcy. But the timing of those changes is very hard to predict. So I think
our seasonality it's probably harder to predict in FY '22 as well. Certainly, I still expect the holiday
quarter to probably be the biggest, but other than that, it's going to be probably important for us
just to remain fast, flexible and nimble and just react to the market opportunities that we see.
A - `Ben Lu, VP of IR `
Michael, your line is now open.
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Unknown
Two questions, actually, along the same lines, visibility. Can you just explain, I mean between
beginning of March when you gave your guidance for Q4 and the actual result, I mean there's a
huge discrepancy a nice one, obviously. So the question is really, could you absolutely not foresee
that? Or did you try to stay on the cautious side? And if I look at that big discrepancy, I'm
wondering how you can be so confident for FY '22 with your guidance, if that's the discrepancy in
just one month? And the second question is also along the shortage situation. You talked about
electronic components and semiconductors. My question is more on the plastic side. How do you
make sure -- or do you see any shortages in plastics? And how do you make sure that you have
sufficient availability there?
A - `Bracken P. Darrell, President `
Yes. I'll take a stab at both of those. Then, Nate, you can fill in on the plastic side, no, we don't
have any -- at least not the LIBOR. I'm shortage is on plastics right now, but I'd say the demand
has been very strong. It's every day is a new day when it comes to component supply over the
last year or so. But yes, I'd say so far, we're okay on the plastic side. On the visibility side, I think
that's a very fair criticism. Our constructive comment, I think how could we have been that far off.
It's a good question. We're always -- we always try to make sure that what we tell you we can
deliver, we deliver. This year was just stronger and stronger. We also had a chance to fill a backlog
of orders, especially in video collaboration that we just -- we really couldn't completely foresee
getting to. We're able to do it. But as you note, we're really strong across the board. I think we're
-- our business is so strong, and our market shares continue to gain and we never completely
assume that we're going to gain market share. So we probably did a little better from a market
standpoint than we expected. Of course we also had a chance to refill the channel. Do you want
to add anything to that, Nate?
A - `Nathan Olmstead, CFO
I think I'll still come back to the environment that we're in is fast-moving, right? And changes
across countries, and we have lots of customers in every country. So and we're reacting with a
very nimble supply chain, operations team, to those changes. But I think we saw -- also March was
going to be 1 of the tougher -- 1 of the first months, but really we're looking at a tougher year-
over-year compare, where we started to see pretty strong demand a year ago. So I think there
was maybe a little bit of that thinking going into the outlook we provided at AID as well. We
weren't really sure if there was some significance to that first month of a tougher year-over-year
compare, but as Bracken said, the demand remains strong and supply also continued to improveQ - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Unknown
Great. Maybe just 1 last question, if I may. The -- you mentioned that you shipped around 20
million units of WEBCAMS into a 500 million monitor installed base. Do you have any -- could you
give us any feel about what the actual Webcam installed basis, if you have any numbers on that ?
A - `Bracken P. Darrell, President `
I don't think -- I know we don't have them available right now, but I'm not sure we do have good
numbers on that. What I would say is, I think if you took a poll of people on this call, it would
probably surprise a few of you have WEBCAMS and should. But yes, so it's a big opportunity. Let's
just leave it at that, and I think we're going to go after it.
A - `Ben Lu, VP of IR `
Serge, your line is open.
Q - `Serge Rotzer, Analyst, Crédit Suisse AG `
I have two questions. Look, looking at your capital allocation, what drove the increase to, let's say
to $1 billion, so $2 billion? Or is there any cross read to be made on your M&A ambitions? Then
yes. If things continue to go very well, what is the capacity you have in place? I mean in terms of
theoretical sales number on group level that you would be able to generate.
A - `Bracken P. Darrell, President `
On the capital allocation, I wouldn't read that as any comment at all about our M&A interest or
goals or capacity. I mean we're we I don't think like we've given up anything in terms of capacity
to do M&A by announcing a larger buyback. We have -- we obviously have a lot of cash and a lot
of cash generation capability going into the future. We're certainly no less ambitious on M&A.
We're always looking at all sizes of things, and we'll continue to do that. In terms of our
theoretical capacity, yes, we do have theoretical capacity well above where we are today. In most
of our categories, not all, and we try to keep ourselves in that position.
A - `Nathan Olmstead, CFO
I don't think I have much to add to that. I mean you saw that we did 3 small deals in the quarter.
Obviously they didn't cost us a significant amount, but we're pretty active in looking at
opportunities. So really no change in capital allocation priorities or processes.
A - `Ben Lu, VP of IR `
Eric.
Q - `Erik William Richard Woodring, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Congrats on the good quarter. I just want to touch on the sell-in and sell-through dynamics here a
little bit. Just to dig in and I try to understand it correctly. That is -- obviously we've seen that gap
widen over the last 3 quarters. It seems predominantly focused in the Americas and EMEA. So is
that widening because you've had an opportunity to fill the channel and you're at the point now
where you feel like channel inventory levels are still healthy? And the kind of secondary to that,
would that then imply that if you're expecting to be, call it, flat year-over-year next year, that sell-
through could potentially be 15% to 20% to have the impact from this year normalized next year?
Then I have a follow-up.A - `Bracken P. Darrell, President `
Nate, you want to take that one? Or I'm happy to...
A - `Nathan Olmstead, CFO
Yes. I mean I think we started the year -- if you go all the way back to Q4 last year, inventories got
drawn down quite low. I would say we've been on a steady path to improve inventory levels both
within our distribution centers as well as out in the channel. That was pretty broad-based to begin
the year for the first couple of quarters and then, again slowly over the year some categories
have gotten healthier. I think this category -- or this quarter, exiting this quarter, but we really have
gotten to a pretty healthy position now across the board. There's still some places where we're a
little bit tight. But generally speaking, I think we're now -- I think we feel good about the level that
we have and the coverage that we have.
In terms of looking to next year, again hard to predict. We'll do things strategically where it makes
sense just given the dynamic supply environment if we think we need to be more aggressive in
securing components for availability, but I feel good right now about the state of the inventory.
Q - `Erik William Richard Woodring, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Okay. Super. Then kind of a related question. Your balance sheet inventory tripled year-over-year,
days inventory 72 days, which I think is the highest in like 2.5 years. What's primarily driving that? Is
it more finished goods versus raw materials? Are there any prepurchases to get ahead of
component constraints? Just curious on your color there as well.
A - `Nathan Olmstead, CFO
Yes. I think on the days of inventory, listen, our linearity of purchases are sort of back-end
weighted. You can see that our DPO also went up as well, sort of offsetting that. So our cash
conversion cycle overall, which is where I usually start, was 18 days, which was down, I believe, 26
days year-over-year, and actually, rather flat sequentially. Normally, we see an increase in our cash
conversion cycle Q3 to Q4. We didn't see that this quarter.
So I think cash conversion was again strong. I do think in the first half of next year, in particular, we
could see -- probably we'll see an increase in cash conversion cycle, certainly against the very low
levels that we were at in FY '21. We'll see that cash conversion cycle increase in the first half just
with supply chain lead times extending a bit. And again very comfortable that the balance sheet is
very strong. I think it's something we'll put to work so that we can enable the availability that our
business needs to support growth and market opportunities.
A - `Bracken P. Darrell, President `
And to answer the question very specifically about what are we investing in? It's both. So we're
investing in components, and we're also investing in finished goods.
Q - `Erik William Richard Woodring, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Yes. Awesome. Then maybe just one final one. It's great to see you meaningfully increase your
buyback authorization. You clearly bought back a lot of stock in the March quarter. Should we
interpret these dynamics as a sign that; one, you see value in your stock and buying it back today;
and then two, that buybacks could potentially be more of a use of cash than they have been over
the last, whatever 1, 2, 3, four years?A - `Bracken P. Darrell, President `
I'll jump in, Nate, and then you can add. First of all, in terms of the last part of your question, I think
it is -- this is a bigger number than we've had before. On the other hand, we're a bigger company
than we were before, and we have more cash than we've ever had. So I think on the 1 hand, this
is just a scale up. On the other hand, we do want to be prepared. Because we've doubled the
value over 2.5 years. You can almost draw a line in it for the last nine years. Since last year, we
doubled the value again. We want to be in a position where we make sure that if we see a good
investment here, and we do, we'll keep investing. In terms of -- you want add anything else to
that, Nate?
A - `Nathan Olmstead, CFO
No. Not in that. I think on the buyback versus dividend, I would just say the buyback number of $1
billion is over three years. You probably need to take the dividend number and multiply it by 3
and add some growth to it or something to sort of get something that's apples-to-apples. So I
think we're still very committed, obviously to both forms of returning cash to shareholders. The
stock has doubled in price, as Bracken just said, so it has become more expensive for us to buy
back shares. But at the same time, our cash generation has improved a lot as well. So I think
those are some of the factors that go into the higher authorization level. But yes, as Bracken said,
we believe we're long-term investors in the company, and we think that we have really good
long-term potential.
A - `Ben Lu, VP of IR `
Ananda?
Q - `Ananda Prosad Baruah, Analyst, Loop Capital Markets LLC `
And congrats on solid results and good execution. I guess just two quick ones for me, bracken. In
video collaboration, can you just give us a little context around what you're seeing on the
enterprise portion? How you're seeing the business sort of develop with companies right now as
they go to well, I guess like what are you seeing with regards to sort of video enabling rooms?
And what's your expectations over the next couple of quarters, anecdotally, not numbers, but just
trying to get a sense of behaviorally what they're up to? Then I have a follow-up.
A - `Bracken P. Darrell, President `
I think it's -- in terms of -- intuitively, you would say how can we all be sitting here doing this on
video? Then when we go back in the office, have the same kind of setup we had before where
most people had a small fraction of rooms video enabled. So intuitively, that's what I believe I've
all believed from the beginning of the pandemic, and I continue to believe, and I'd say we're
starting to see some of that. We're -- there's -- but it's too early to say it's about to (inaudible)
something, but I think that you're going to see strong growth in video enablement of rooms. It's
just inevitable. But anecdotally, I see enough signs to say that, that's true.
Q - `Ananda Prosad Baruah, Analyst, Loop Capital Markets LLC `
Okay. Great. And just going back to the remarks that you guys both have made about regaining
some Webcam share as you've gotten greater as competitive availability has come back. Can you
just -- just sort of more fully illuminate for me, for us, why when component available, begins to
come back for you guys, I would assume it comes back for other people. So why is it you're more
advantage to take back share as opposed to the market?A - `Bracken P. Darrell, President `
We have -- I mean I'll really put my neck out here and say we have better products. So we have
better products. We're known for having really strong products and people wanted Logitech
Webcams. Here's a case where people really looked for the brand. They're really searching for
our product, and they couldn't find it, they often bought somebody else.
A - `Ben Lu, VP of IR `
Bracken and Nate, I think that concludes our call. We have no more questions.
A - `Bracken P. Darrell, President `
Well thank you, all. It's been -- FY '21 was a tremendous year, but as I used to say to my mom
growing up, every day you kind of have to draw a line behind your heels and everything behind
you is just to learn from. The whole world, the whole exciting world ahead of us is, right, from that
line forward. I have super -- and I know Nate is, too -- we are super excited about the future.
Thanks a lot for being along to this ride so far. I think it's going to continue to be exciting and fun.
A - `Nathan Olmstead, CFO
Thanks, everybody.