Y 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Nate Melihercik, Investor Relations `
Good morning and good afternoon. Welcome to Logitech's video call to discuss our financial
results for the Fourth Quarter and Full Year of Fiscal 2023. Joining us today are `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer,
our President and CEO; and `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer, our CFO. As a reminder, during this call, we will make
forward-looking statements, including with respect to future operating results under the Safe
Harbor of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We're making these statements
based on our views only as of today.
Our actual results could differ materially. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any of
these statements. We will also discuss non-GAAP financial results and you can find a reconciliation
between non-GAAP and GAAP results and information about our use of non-GAAP measures and
factors that could impact our financial results and forward-looking statements in our press release
and in our filings with the SEC. These materials as well as our prepared remarks and slides and a
webcast of this call are all available at the Investor Relations page of our website. We encourage
you to review these materials carefully, unless noted otherwise, comparisons between periods
are year-over-year and in constant currency and net sales. This call is being recorded and will be
available for a replay on our website.
I will now turn the call over to Bracken. Bracken?
`Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Nate. Thanks all of you for joining us. Today I'm joining you from New York. This really
is a hybrid call and I think, Chuck is in -- I know Chuck is in California and Nate, I believe you're in
Dallas. So we're really all over. About 60 days ago, we provided an overview of our business and
our outlook for the coming fiscal year and Chuck will cover the details, but big picture, we ended
this year within our latest outlook and the outlook for the first half of -- first fiscal year '24 remains
unchanged. Most of the macroeconomic and geopolitical issues that impacted our fiscal year '23results continue. Central banks are raising rates to combat inflation, consumer confidence
remains lower and overall demand from enterprises remains tepid. As I look at factors that are
more directly impacting our business, it's a mixed bag. There are positive signs.
The dollar is weakening thankfully, shipping rates, lead times and our reliance on expedited
shipping are nearing pre-pandemic levels. Promotional levels are normalizing and supply chains
appear to be a problem of the past. However, industry layoffs continue. The way companies
handle return to the office continues to be uncertain and we're not yet seeing refresh cycles kick
in for products that were in high demand during the pandemic. As we said last quarter, these
conflicting economic signals create an environment with low visibility and a bias towards
managing our business conservatively. Adjusting our business to meet the market opportunity is
something that is not new to us, we adapted throughout the pandemic when we faced supply
chain, logistics and manufacturing challenges and we're adapting now, to reshape our
organization for more nimble decision making, faster product design cycles, meeting evolving
customer needs quickly and fluidly and improving our speed to market. So while acknowledging
the macro headwinds, we've ended Q4 in a solid position.
Our sales teams closed a number of meaningful customer deals. We closed on Snowflake for
example and representing multiple industries, as well as education and government contracts.
We released 52 new products in fiscal year '23, and while it takes time to scale these launches, it
demonstrates our commitment to product innovation.
We won a record number of design awards. The latest number is over 160 for the full year, 82 in
the fourth quarter alone. Innovation is the key engine of this business and it's firing on all
cylinders. Our commitment to sustainability is absolutely unwavering. In fact, we now have nearly
45% of our products with Carbon labels. I believe, there is no other tech company of our size or
bigger near this level.
We quickly reduced operating expenses to match the revenue reality. Revenue decline and OpEx
reductions were down equally on a percentage basis for the year. As I indicated last quarter and
our Analyst and Investor Day, our fiscal year '23 results were disappointing. As I always say to
myself, it's time to draw a line behind our heels, learn from the past but move forward and that's
exactly what we're doing. We remain committed to the long-term growth trends, markets,
strategy and business model we have in place.
So looking ahead, you should expect us to operating the business in a disciplined manner
consistent with what we've demonstrated over the last few quarters. We'll continue to adjust our
expenses in line with the market. We'll continue to invest in product development. We've plans to
introduce a whole line of new -- whole series of new products across gaming, video collaboration
and keyboards and mice in the quarters to come. And we will continue to improve and refine our
global go-to-market capabilities. I'm confident that the big durable trends we've been
highlighting video everywhere, hybrid work and the explosion of gaming and content creation will
drive growth.
Challenging times always sharpen your focus and the fiscal year '23 definitely sharpened ours.
We quickly re-sized in a prudent methodical fashion, while remaining committed to the keystone
of our business, product innovation or as I think of it design led engineering. We're confident that
we've been -- we've taken the appropriate steps to spring load our categories for growth as we
exit this economic cycle and move ahead.
One final point, before I turn it over to Chuck. I said earlier that 45% of our products now include
carbon labeling. This is a huge deal for Logitech. But it could be an even bigger deal for the world.I'd like to point out that we're not trying to convey -- create competitive advantage here. We'd
love the chance to help others including competitors to advance carbon labeling. So please, for
those of you listening, consumers, investors, analysts or -- and our competitors. You can have an
impact, a big one.
I'd ask that next time, you're interacting with any company including your own, ask them about
their approach to carbon labeling. We can move this ahead so much faster for the betterment of
our customers and for the world. Carbon labels on all our products can be the new calorie and
that will drive competition and bring down carbon levels.
With that, I'll hand over to Chuck to provide some additional color on Q4 and fiscal year '23
results. Chuck? And Chuck, I want to -- I want you to notice that I -- I wore my jacket, I felt so much
pressure [ph] from you, you said, until we have growth, you have to wear a jacket to the earnings
calls.
`Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
Well you look great, Bracken. Well thank you. And I appreciate you all joining our call today. Our
Silicon Valley site is being relocated, so I'm calling in from my house today using a 4K Brio
webcam, the Logi Dock and our MX Series mouse and keyboard. Next quarter, we should be in
our new office in San Jose. Now let me delve into the fourth quarter and full year in greater detail.
Our Q4 and full year results are in line with the revised outlook we shared during our Analyst Day
in March. For the quarter, net sales in constant currency declined by 20% to $960 million. For the
full year, net sales were down 13% to $4.5 billion.
Examining our category performance, results were in line with expectations with continued
pressure in Video Collaboration down 25% and Gaming down 22% due to a slowdown in
simulation while our creativity and productivity categories either held steady or improved
sequentially. In Q4, gross margins were in line with our expectations, decreasing year-over-year
to 36.3%. For the year, gross margins were 38.3%, down 340 basis points compared to fiscal
year '22. Margins were pressured throughout the year due to unfavorable currency movements,
inflation-driven cost increases and product mix. As we transitioned to fiscal year '24, we anticipate
the weakening US dollar euro exchange rate and lower manufacturing costs to contribute to
improving gross margins.
We judiciously reduced operating expenses over the year while continuing to invest in our
product innovation initiatives and enterprise selling capabilities. Operating income was $82 million
in Q4 and $589 million for the full year. Operating income in both the quarter and the year
reflected lower demand and gross margin pressure, partially offset by reductions in operating
expenses. Cash flow from operations was $217 million in Q4 and $534 million for the full year.
Our ending cash balance was over $1.1 billion. We returned a total of $577 million to shareholders
in fiscal year '23 through our share repurchase program and dividend payment. In March, we
outlined our intentions to quickly address two opportunities. One, improve our cash conversion
cycle by reducing on-hand inventory and optimizing channel inventory and two, reduce operating
expenses to a run rate of $1 billion.
Although less than two months have passed since we presented these plans, I'm encouraged by
the strong momentum on both fronts. I'm pleased to report that our on-hand inventory was down
for the fourth consecutive quarter with Q4 seeing the biggest reduction of the year. Our goal
over the next year or so is to continuously improve inventory turns to five or better. Furthermore,
we plan to keep reducing channel inventory in the first half of the year before the normal build forAs we mentioned during Analyst Day, we believe lower channel -- lower channel and on-hand
inventory provide better economics for us and our partners in the value chain. We are maintaining
the outlook we provided in March expecting H1 fiscal year '24 revenue of $1.8 billion to $1.9 billion,
down approximately 22% to 18% compared to the prior year in US dollars. Our corresponding
operating income is expected to be between $160 million and $190 million, down approximately
47% to 37%. Nate, we can now open the line for questions.
`Nate Melihercik, Investor Relations `
Great, thanks Chuck, thanks Bracken and thanks everyone to joining. As a reminder, please raise
your hand if you're interested in participating in Q&A and come off of video when selected. Thank
you.
Questions And Answers
A - `Nate Melihercik, Investor Relations `
First question comes from `Paul Chung, Analyst, JPMorgan at JPMorgan. Morning, Paul.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Hello, Paul.
Q - `Paul Chung, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Good morning. So good to see you guys,
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Good to see you and (inaudible)
Q - `Paul Chung, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Yeah, so first up on gross margins for 4Q, would have thought there would be better
improvement and kind of easing supply chain headwinds, what drove the pressures there? I know
VC and gaming mix has come down a bit, which may have driven some impact there. What do
you see as temporary and as we move into the next year, how should we think about those
variables easing and kind of impact on gross margins at least in the first half.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Chuck, you want to take that one.
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, certainly, thank you, Paul. Our overall margins for the quarter were roughly in line with our
expectations. We did -- the operations team did a phenomenal job reducing costs. But with
inventory turns, we won't see the benefit of that cost reduction until next quarter as it flows
through. Q4 compared to Q3, we did have some minor inventory charges. The mix issue is
identified in the prepared remarks and looking forward, we see tailwinds with FX, lower costs and
obviously note -- not the same inventory charges and longer term, we expect to be in that long-
term operating model of 39 to low 40s over time.
Q - `Paul Chung, Analyst, JPMorgan `Okay, great. And then second on VC in your prepared remarks, you kind of mentioned kind of
typical ASP per room has been increasing, which is great. Can you help us size both the
opportunity to expand conference rooms, where you think that ASP can go when volume comes
back and which peripherals, you're seeing the most success in the conference rooms? Thanks.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I -- so I think, the cool thing about our business model is there's just a lot of room to continue to
increase the ASP per room. If you think about it, we announced something called SCRIBE
whiteboard, whatever kind of whiteboard you're using becomes a participant. So we've lots of
ways to increase the value per room, so I'm very optimistic long-term that the ASPs can go up.
And the number of rooms that will be enabled, it continues to be very high number. So we just
got to get through this current period where people are kind of scratching their heads saying, I'm
not really sure -- not all people, but not [ph] all companies, but a lot of companies are saying, I'm
not quite sure, what we're doing yet. We're a good example.
We're closing one office, we're opening another office. And the new office, we know exactly
we're doing for video enablement standpoint, but a lot of other people are lagging us, they're
either -- they really haven't completely decided what to do with the current office, they're doing
the minimum or they're saving money because they're going through this economic cycle too. Or
they're going to do it, but it's going to come later. So I'm not hearing anybody say, gosh, video
enablement are [ph] for rooms is bad idea. It's just timing.
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
And I would just add Bracken, the market sizing that we talked about at Analyst Day is roughly
$50 million [ph] conference rooms of approximately 10% penetration. I'm certainly, what you're
seeing, I think is we've won some great deals this quarter, a large food company, Bracken
mentioned a lot of tech giants. So we're winning lots of deals they tend to be smaller upfront with
additional purchases as they re-outfit their rooms over time. So we're bullish on video long term,
and it's a great category. These new products, I think will provide additional fuel for growth long-
term.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
One other thing, we didn't mention, Paul, was service. It's a really small business for us today, but
it's going to keep growing, and it's growing rapidly and every time you buy a room, you really
ought to be getting the service that goes with it. And our service package is called Select and it's
growing -- like I said, it's growing very rapidly. And I think, one day that will be a pretty -- pretty
decent chunk of our revenue.
Q - `Paul Chung, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Okay, great. Thank you.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Nate Melihercik, Investor Relations `
Next up is `Alex Duval, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `Hey, Alex. How you doing?
Q - `Alex Duval, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Hi, everyone. Thanks very much for the questions. Just wanted to ask firstly on OpEx. You've
done a very strong job controlling that. I just wondered, how much more OpEx control, you think
can be done? Should we expect further cost reductions this fiscal year versus fiscal '23 or is fiscal
fourth quarter indicative of new run rate going forward? And secondly, some investors have been
asking about PC suppliers, which you've indicated there could be a possibility of stabilizing PC
demand in the second half of the year. Curious to what extent your PC linked revenues could
benefit from such a recovery? Any color there very much appreciated.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I'll just touch on each one and then Chuck, you can clean up whatever you feel like, I didn't cover. I
think, we've been super clear that we want to get to a $1 billion run rate. Our OpEx, as we get
past this first half and into the latter half of the year and that's where we're headed. So no, our
current run rate is not quite where we want to be yet. But we'll get there. The second, on your
second question, we've been pretty clear that we think the PC -- the PC category is kind of not
linked as a driver of our peripheral's business. However, it is probably indicative of what's
happening in one way, which is that if [ph] especially in the B2B business, people are cutting
spending on PCs, they're probably also cutting spending on peripherals.
So yeah, I think there's some relationship, we'll see what happens. We're not guiding back half of
the year yet, where we continue to feel like the visibility is really hard to call. What do you want to
add there, Chuck on either one of those.
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I'll just add on the OpEx side, we finished the quarter with $266 million on OpEx and our
plan is to get to $250 million in a quarter by the back end of this year. And so there is -- there are
some headwinds on OpEx with FX which is an [ph] overall benefit to the company, but a little bit
of a headwind, but, so the reductions are already mostly completed and where, we'll see the
numbers come down, I think each and every quarter up until the middle part of the back half of
the year.
Q - `Alex Duval, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
That's very helpful. Many thanks.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you (Multiple Speakers)
A - `Nate Melihercik, Investor Relations `
Next question is from `Asiya Merchant, Analyst, Citi at Citi. Good morning, Asiya.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Hi Asiya
Q - `Asiya Merchant, Analyst, Citi `Hey, good morning, everyone. Hopefully you can hear me? So a quick question on gross margins,
I think in the past, you guys have provided some breakdown of how FX versus promotions versus
inflation have kind of affected margins on a year-on-year or even on a sequential basis. So if you
could go through that exercise for the March quarter. And then as you look ahead, I heard Chuck
mentioned that margin should improve here as dollar weakens and the inventory is right sized
and flow-through of the lower manufacturing costs. So what should we kind of expect for, let's
say, even the first half of the year or should we expect those unwinds to happen that are
headwind in the first -- throughout most of fiscal '23. That's my first question.
And then secondly, Bracken (Multiple Speakers)
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Let me stop you there. And let me -- let's answer one at a time, so we can really focus on it. And
Chuck, correct me if I'm wrong, but I think, we've been saying that about 300 basis points were
inflation, a couple of 100 basis points were currency, and then the -- and then there was a few
other drips and drabs, so 100 basis points on transportation et cetera. I think, all that is coming
through. It's just coming through slowly and as it would, it has to work its way through our
inventory, which takes time.
We've got a pretty long inventory cycle and we're -- and we were sitting on more inventory than
we would have liked before. You want to add anything to that, Chuck.
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I think that's good and sequentially, that's sort of a year-over-year view, sequentially
inventory charges were a couple of hundred basis points and mix was a couple hundred, so those
are ones, mix, it's hard to predict. But inventory FX costs, I think are all transitory, and I think, we
should see sequential improvement slowly throughout the year.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sorry to interrupt.
Q - `Asiya Merchant, Analyst, Citi `
(Multiple Speakers) good will promotions -- no, that's fine. Were there -- was there any effect, just
people are trying to understand what the effective promotions have been, is there a competitive,
that was kind of, it goes into my second question, the competitive dynamics, you talked about
gaming being soft, we heard from GN, I guess Jabra in Europe that they had done well in
Gaming. So maybe you can talk a little bit about the competitive dynamics, both on the gaming
side, and just broadly, how it's affecting margins whether there's been an increased competitive
intensity here and if you can see that easing as the year progresses?
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
First let me, I don't know their earnings quite well enough to know, but I have a hunch what the
difference between us and them is simply category difference. So we have a big simulation
business and we've a huge simulation number a year ago now, year ago (inaudible) so we
certainly don't think we're losing any share in Gaming. So I think, it's probably comparable. Chuck,
you want to take any of this that [ph]
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `Yeah, I do, so promotional activity, sort of went back to normal in Q4 that was a bit of a headwind
in Q3 sort of back to normal in Q4. Our competitive positioning. I think we feel great in gaming,
our business, our gaming business is very, very much larger than theirs, is it. So it's -- when you
compare the categories, we have different categories like simulation that they're not in, it's a
great category with terrific margins that was down quarter-over-quarter, given the kind of
promotional bump from the December quarter.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And a year ago.
Q - `Asiya Merchant, Analyst, Citi `
Okay, all right. And so just competitive intensity going forward, whether it's VC, an HP Pozy [ph]
whether it's gaming, are we trying to -- are we seeing like as the inventory digestion has
happened, competition is kind of going back to normal promo [ph] and so there isn't this
excessive hunt to reduce inventory in the channel.
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
(Multiple Speakers)
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, go ahead Chuck.
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
The B2B side is not as price-sensitive as the consumer side. So I don't think the -- that the video
category is -- very price sensitive. The margins are terrific and the industry participants have been
behaving rationally and so that's really more, I think just this kind of general issue around the
economy and uncertainty that's happening with corporate buyers that -- that the overall large
conference room, medium conference room business is kind of stable, it's not really taking off
and growing, but it's not really going down either. So I think, that's really more just the early
indicators look good.
But I think, with the overall uncertainty that will come back, other areas like webcams, I think, you
see more price sensitivity.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, and we've always got -- and we do now, areas where we feel like we really need to adjust
pricing a little bit or bring pricing down a little heavier, but they tend to be surgical and so we and
without getting into specifics here, I think that's going to continue to happen. But overall, I feel like
the promotion intensity is not, it doesn't scare me right now, I don't feel like there's a big wave of
price competition coming through, it's going to change the dynamics of our business.
Q - `Asiya Merchant, Analyst, Citi `
Okay, great. Thank you.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.A - `Nate Melihercik, Investor Relations `
Next on the line is `Erik Woodring, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Hello Erik.
Q - `Erik Woodring, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Hey, good morning, guys. Thanks for -- thanks for taking my question. Bracken maybe I -- if I could
ask you a bigger picture question and that is, I appreciate the fact that you're very clear in that
visibility is more limited today. Can you maybe just share some comments about why visibility is
less limited today, is it the channel, is it spending patterns, is it the impact and the uncertainty of
the macro conditions, all of the above. If you could just double-click on that to help us understand
why perhaps today versus historical periods, you just have less visibility into the business.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
That's a great question. I like the way you phrased it, it's really not -- it's only the -- just the
economic environment we're in, it's just a little hard to see, you don't know -- you're going to go
up until you actually balance and I think, we've been down now for three or four quarters and I
think, it's really hard for us to judge when that direction will change. We think it will change. It's just
a question of when, so it's really just that. I was with the -- I was in an event this week, where
there were a bunch of kind of mid -- mid sized and smaller CEOs and some HR people et cetera.
And I got -- I really got this -- it just reinforced my strong feeling and the data that we're seeing,
which is that, especially on the B2B side, it's not like companies are in trouble. I mean they are
okay. They're just spending more conservatively and I think that conservatism is pretty -- is --
when you spend conservatively, you tend to have a [ph] easiest control over your costs and that's
why lot of the PC companies are feeling it.
We're feeling it. So it's really just that, Erik. And it's really hard for me to say, when it will turn, but it
will, you could probably go back and look at economic cycles, and try to deduce [ph] something,
but we decided just to be more conservative and just guide for six months and then wait and see
quarter-by-quarter.
Q - `Erik Woodring, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Okay, that's helpful. And then I guess maybe the second question, because you guys kind of
elaborate to it, but you called out some deals this quarter which I feel like, you don't necessarily
do historically, you mentioned Snowflake, Chuck, you mentioned another one. Can you just give
us an understanding, I know, Chuck, you mentioned they start small but are these needle movers
-- are these mostly in the VC business, are they currently embedded into your guidance or is this
incremental because you just announced some of them. So, I wasn't sure, how much line of sight
you had 30 or 60 days ago.
So again, if you could just elaborate on the impact of those deals. Any color you could share on
the products and then whether they're incremental or not. That'd be helpful. Thank you.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I'll jump in and Chuck you can add. I think -- I think, we really just felt like, you know what, we
should once in a while call out some of the customers. So you get a feel for the logos. There arelot of big logos that we don't get permission to talk about publicly for whatever reason, it's not
usually that they don't want us to, we just don't -- don't go ask them. We did mention Snowflake
this time, we talked about the food company. There are many others.
I would say, they are pretty much part of our overall game plan. They're needle movers. But
they're not needle movers relative to the expectations I have already said, you want to add
anything in there, Chuck.
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, I do. Erik, the key thing is you want to win the Company. Now, many companies use multiple
vendors. So it's not like there are other [ph] exclusive. But the -- if you win the account, it tends to
be a smaller deal upfront and then they keep buying more and more and more over a period of
years. So no one transaction is a needle mover for us, but they're really good signs that we've
won the account that we can land and expand and ultimately that's what we're looking for. And I
just want to call out our sales organization because they are -- just they've done a really, really
good job of building out this B2B capability.
It's a key strategic investment for us and I think, it will bear fruit for years to come.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And if I could just add, I was just in a -- a large manufacturing company's offices here in New York,
this week, and it's really interesting. They started very small with us, to your point, Chuck. Started
very small with us about two years ago and now, every single room they have has our stuff and
it's an incredible office by the way and so that's kind of our game plan, where you just really want
to land and expand.
Q - `Erik Woodring, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
If I could, sorry, just follow up with one last question. Chuck, this one's for you, just on gross
margins. If we look back over the last four years, we have seen sequential compression in gross
margins from March into June. The comments I hear from you kind of seem to indicate they might
go the other direction and expand from March to June. Can you just maybe help us, give us a few
more pieces to help us understand the direction of -- directionality of gross margins from March
into June and some of the more influential moving pieces there, and that's it from me. Thanks.
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, thank you, Erik. We're not providing detailed guidance for June. So I would not [ph] -- I
would say, let's look over the longer term. We're in this sort of transition -- transitory state right
now. We brought channel inventory down significantly. So we brought channel inventory down,
we're going to continue to take that down in Q1 and Q2 before it builds into Q3. The overall
seasonality of the Company is such that Q1 and Q2. Actually, we outlined at our Analyst Day. If you
go back and look. I think it was like 24% Q1, 24% Q2, 30% Q3 and I think 22% if my math works for
Q4.
That overall profile if you think about that, you're absorbing more overhead, where -- as you have
bigger quarters and we're taking channel inventory down and revenue being sort of suppressed
with reducing channel inventory that hurts gross margins. And then when it expands, it's a benefit.
So I look at that and say, I'm not going to say, Q1 of the June quarter, it's back to normal, but I do
think by end of Q2, Q3, back half of the year, I expect us to be back to normal and certainly noone can predict the currency rates, but that's been a real headwind over the last year or so. It
looks like it's getting better and turning now, but we just -- we can't be sure.
The inventory charges, some of those items, I do think, those are a tailwind now.
Q - `Erik Woodring, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Super. Thank you for all the color, guys.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Nate Melihercik, Investor Relations `
Our next question is from Ananda at Loop. Good morning, Ananda.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Hey, Ananda.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Analyst, Loop Capital `
Hey, guys. Hey, good morning. Yeah. Good to see you guys, thanks for taking the questions. A
couple if I could. I mean, I guess we could just stick right there Chuck with your comments around
sort of seasonality, do you think that the inventory that remains to be worked down, could impact
seasonality in September, December quarter meaningfully or is it -- is the inventory really in
businesses where right now where the impact would be needed? And then, I have a quick follow-
up. Thanks.
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I mean, overall, I feel comfortable with where our inventory levels are. I just -- our view is
sort of a philosophy is that a lean supply chain is better for everyone. If you think about return on
invested capital as I think is the ultimate metric, if you have less on-hand inventory, less channel
inventory, it's better economics for everyone. So while our weeks [ph] on hand are within the
normal operating model, we'd like to get that a little bit leaner, because I think that will be better
returns for us and the channel, but of course you have to rebuild the channel inventory because
of that seasonality for the December quarter, Black Friday into the Christmas period.
So, that -- that I believe will happen regardless, but overall, I -- we're comfortable with where the
levels are today and even where they were in Q4. We just want to take them down because I
think, it's better unit economics.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Analyst, Loop Capital `
That's really helpful. I appreciate that. And then Bracken, I guess for you. You mentioned, sort of
like kind of off the LUFF [ph] in the beginning prepared remarks, return to office is uncertain,
refresh cycles haven't kicked in yet. Anything that you guys are seeing that has you think kind of
the structural nature that underpins some of the key trends is altering at all and actually, if could
just, as a part of that, just where are you seeing the refresh cycles not yet kicking in. Would you
think they -- they eventually will kick in and (Multiple Speakers) that's it for me. Thanks.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `Thank you. On the refresh cycles, I think, we're not yet seeing in -- in personal workspace. We're
not really seeing it kick in yet, which is the mice and keyboards and that kind of thing. And even
for gaming. So I think, that's probably ahead of us. Those cycles are three to five years. So we'll
probably see it, some of the categories are faster, some of them longer. On the -- on the
structural nature of our opportunity, I don't really see anything that's changed. I mean, I think it's
pretty much the same.
We've just got such a -- I'm sitting in an [ph] office now and the one I'm sitting in now does have
video, but if I walk down the hallway, it's amazing to me, how many of these offices do not have
video. So I think, that's just a reality and hybrid work, it has done nothing but make that more
obvious to people and more required. I think, what has -- so I don't think that's changed. I don't
think the need for a home office has changed or to upgraded.
I don't think the reality of gaming or streaming and creating has really changed at all. So I don't
see anything really fundamentally, structurally that's changed in our view of the category
opportunities.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Analyst, Loop Capital `
All right, okay, great, that's helpful. Thank you. Appreciate it.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you
Operator
Next on the line is `Adam Angelov, Analyst, Bank of America from Bank of America.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Hi Adam
Q - `Adam Angelov, Analyst, Bank of America `
Hi, thanks for letting me on. Yes. So firstly, just a very quick one for Chuck, to follow up on what
you just answered to previous question, gross margins back to normal. Did you mean, back to the
long-term guidance range, just quickly on that?
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I -- it's possible we get there still this year, Q3 generally tends to be really strong gross
margins because it is a peak quarter. So I think, it's very possible that Q3 is there just because it's
such a big, big quarter due to seasonality. But if you think about run rate structurally, annually at
that kind of 39% to 44%, my guess is, it's probably into next year, but that's we -- I can't really
predict that.
But certainly, I think if you look historically, Q4, Q3 being our best quarter, we've been typically
quite high margins in that Q3 just given the volume.
Q - `Adam Angelov, Analyst, Bank of America `
Got it. That's helpful, thanks. So next, I think just curious on what you saw in China in the quarter,
was there any sequential improvement there and perhaps as you look into the rest of the year?A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I want to try that one, Chuck, and you feel free to jump in. I think, China is a little harder for me to
judge right now to be honest, it's usually been just kind of consistently up into the right. I think, it's
been choppy over the last kind of year. It's -- it is highly competitive there, it's opened up but not
as much as you'd like. So it's not quite where back where it used to be. But, I feel very confident
and so longer-term, I think the dynamics in China are great. You've got such a young population,
everybody's moving into the workforce and moving up in the workforce. There's more and more
knowledge workers and it's become an environment where you can imagine a bigger, a healthier,
more dynamic kind of IT world in China. It's obvious to me and probably obvious to you.
So I'm really excited about long-term, we have a great brand there. I mean, a really great brand
there, incredibly strong market shares and that's across both our two consumer businesses. On
the video collaboration side, it's never been as strong there. It's just a -- for some reason, the
dynamics there have developed quite differently. And that does -- tend to happen in China in
some categories. We'll see if it eventually gets to where it really got more gusto but -- but
overall, I don't see anything but strength long term in China, but I don't -- it's really hard for me to
call, just like it is for our visibility in the back half of the year for the company in general for China
particularly. I don't know.
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I think as it relates to China, Q3 was a tough quarter. It was down and we were down 25%
year-over-year in Q3. Q4, though, we were down 3% year-over-year. So it looks like a recovery in
China. As Bracken mentioned, our top SKUs -- the best selling products in China are in the
gaming side. So there's just a huge opportunity on video, but that's a -- it's a tough nut to crack
but that one, the market is just enormous, and so, I think, we're in a good position with things
stabilizing there as it relates to volumes year-over-year.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And we do partner differently in video in China than we do elsewhere, because the -- you don't
have the same service players, or not -- I think big video conference players are not as big in
China, that they're much smaller.
Q - `Adam Angelov, Analyst, Bank of America `
Okay, that's great. And if I can just squeeze one more in.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure.
Q - `Adam Angelov, Analyst, Bank of America `
The behavior you're seeing from the enterprise customers, I think you touched on it briefly but
just curious to know, it sounds like it hasn't got worse, but equally hasn't improved, but maybe if
you could just go into that in a little bit more detail would be helpful. Thanks.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I think, you captured it, it's pretty much kind of stable. I would say, it's about where it was, which
doesn't really shock me. The layoff news continues and the layoffs especially in Tech but it's alsonews kind of -- it's kind of -- it seems like it maybe as almost all the way out the big company
news at least is almost all the way out. But the impact really dribbles over a three to six to nine
months. So I think, that that -- those dominos will continue to fall now for another few quarters,
but it will turn.
Q - `Adam Angelov, Analyst, Bank of America `
Very good, thank you.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Our next question is from `George Wang, Analyst, Barclays at Barclays. Hey, George.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Hey, George.
Q - `George Wang, Analyst, Barclays `
Hey, guys. And Chuck, maybe you can give more color on the capital return kind of going forward,
especially given better cash flow backdrop with some tailwinds coming back on the inventory kind
of better cost profiles. Just curious if you have any color just on buyback or kind of dividend
going-forward?
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, we're just really proud of what we've been able to accomplish on returning capital to
shareholders over the last few years, we had a great cash quarter, we had a great cash year, if
you look at it year-over-year, our cash balance now is $1.14 billion, $1.15 billion it's down year-over-
year. We ended last year at about 1.2 or 1.3, and we returned 577 million roughly to shareholders.
So that has been great. Our primary objective though as we've stated before is to -- is growth.
And so we -- if to the extent we don't use cash to buy companies or expand then we plan to
return that back to our shareholders via a great dividend that we pay, as well as buybacks.
Q - `George Wang, Analyst, Barclays `
Okay, thanks. I have a quick follow-up, Bracken, maybe you can comment on that. It's kind of with
share gains. In your prepared remark, you called out some share gains within the gaming
category. Are there any other kind of category -- you want to recall [ph] in terms of notable share
gains in the last few months?
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Across the year, you can see our share gains across most of our key categories and those share
gains were very widespread and consistent. It's -- and it's really a function of our innovation
engine -- within [ph] any single quarter, a few months we'll have sometimes it wobbles up-and-
down, so, I won't go through the individual categories. But we've -- over the 10, 11 years that I've
been here, we've consistently gained share in almost every category, and we're -- that's why
we're so focused on design and design led engineering. And that's why we're investing.Q - `George Wang, Analyst, Barclays `
Okay, great, thank you.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Q - `George Wang, Analyst, Barclays `
That's it for me
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
All right. Thank you.
A - `Nate Melihercik, Investor Relations `
George. Our next question is from `Serge Rotzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse at Credit Suisse.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Hi Serge.
Q - `Serge Rotzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Hi. So now I'm ready. Good morning, everybody. Well, two simple questions. The first question is
you were down 22% in sales and also in gaming, 25, 27 in video conferencing. Can you give me a
feeling, how much is price impact and how much is volume impact. Price impact due to
promotions, but also due to more competition in the enterprise business, can you give me a
flavor on that?
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
Certainly, it's -- the year-over-year changes are primarily volume. We were promoting a little more
than we'd expected in Q3 that has returned to normal, so it's primarily volumes Year-over-Year.
Q - `Serge Rotzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Any product categories where you have been able to increase prices or to increase volume.
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
We increased prices in a number of categories, there have been some bright spots. Some of the
tablets and accessories have been a bright spot, certain -- certainly, there's lots of different, we
have many-many SKUs in many products, many of them, there are -- many of that are growing,
but the secular trends that you're seeing are the -- are year-over-year comps. As we start to lap
our Q4 and throughout this year, I think we will see easier and better comps as it relates to the
year-over-year results.
Q - `Serge Rotzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Okay, fair enough. Then probably I switch directly to second question. At the Capital Market Day,
you mentioned that. Hey guys, look at the seasonality of our quarters in sales. And it's 48% [ph] in
sales you do the first-six months and obviously, 52 in the second six-month for second-half, nowI'm wondering, we also have a seasonality in EBIT, in the past you did 40% of the EBIT in the first-
six months. So basically, you had to do 60% in second-half. And when I take your guidance and
would -- sum this up for the full-year then we are at the level at the mid point of $435 million. This
is clearly below consensus and expectation, now I am wondering are you took CAUTIOUS more
for the first-six months or are you much more ambitious for the second six month?.
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, what you're seeing is the profile is -- we are in a transitional stage. So operating expenses
are coming down. We're taking costs out and we're seeing some benefits that we think will
manifest into gross margins. And so that profile that you're seeing in this transitional stage is
putting more pressure on the near-term. We're not providing outlook to the back-half of the year
because quite frankly, we just -- we just don't know.
We hope to do that. We plan to return to annual guidance over time. Certainly, we're optimistic
that the December quarter, our biggest quarter will be a strong quarter, but at this point, sitting
here in early May, it's just too early right now to provide color on Q3 and Q4.
Q - `Serge Rotzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
But to be honest, to improve your margin, your EBIT contribution in the second-half, you need
success in VC, is correct because it's still the highest gross profit margin product.
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, certainly if videoconference improves, that's an additional tailwind. The mix that we talked
about, it's really hard to predict what will happen with the mix, I will tell you generally the B2B
categories are less seasonal. So I think, you'll see the -- other parts of the business will mix up
more in the Q3 quarter due to seasonality but Video does not have to return to get to our
targets, but if it does, I think that's great. And we expect it to, we just -- we're not providing
guidance for the back half of the year.
Q - `Serge Rotzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
And probably, still the last one, you mentioned VC is stable but VC quarter-over-quarter was
minus down 20%. So what do you mean with stable, when things down by 20%?.
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, it's -- that's a good -- good question. So we're going to realign the categories that we
show you next quarter. So you'll see, we're going to break out in a bit more detail the quarterly
businesses. So in the video category, we have professional webcams and some other solutions in
there, and webcams across the board business to business consumer those have seen -- has
seen some significant declines and whereas the room solutions have been fairly stable. And
that's what we're referring to.
Q - `Serge Rotzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Okay, got it. This is very helpful. So (Foreign Language) Thank you so much. Bye-bye.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I'm glad you said that Chuck because I think, that -- I can't wait till we do that realignment because
it will -- I think it will bear things for people.
A - `Nate Melihercik, Investor Relations `
Great. Our next question is from `Andreas Mueller, Analyst, ZKB at ZKB.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Hi, Andreas.
Q - `Andreas Mueller, Analyst, ZKB `
Hi, everybody. Thanks for taking my questions. I have one on Windows 11, if that's going to help
you in at some point, you mentioned this correlation with PC sales of course is not that much
strong, but from a product perspective that this operating system will help you in some ways with
your product that some new innovations coming in?
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
My experience with Windows upgrades is just kind of ignore them from a volume standpoint for
the near term and then the long-term, they're good, because they keep the PC industry vibrant.
So that's kind of the way we're thinking about it now, but I'm sure it will be a good thing overall,
good for users and our products are always well integrated with the latest Windows update --
upgrade. So it's going to -- we're going to be in good shape there. But I wouldn't expect anything
significantly changed because of that.
Q - `Andreas Mueller, Analyst, ZKB `
Okay then your (Multiple Speakers)
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I wish -- I would add one other thing, I think the bigger change we've made is our products work
really well with Apple or with the Mac and that's happened over the last year and we've seen
really significant business improvement and potential out there because of that.
Q - `Andreas Mueller, Analyst, ZKB `
That's tied to the productivity categories or also others [ph]?
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, perfectly correct [ph].
Q - `Andreas Mueller, Analyst, ZKB `
Then next question, you are a cash rich Company right now and I was wondering, can you discuss
if that is helpful or was that helpful at times when financing by banks, sort of more conservativeand towards clients and competitors. I mean, does that change your position in some ways
because I saw DPOs went up.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Let me just try to briefly answer that and I'll let Chuck jump in. I'm not sure really it changed
anything for us because we don't need much support from banks. We do have a great banking
relationships in the event we ever needed it. But we don't really need much, so it probably didn't
change much. I will say, it's kind of comforting not to -- not to be too dependent on leverage and
if -- in tough times. But I think, at the end of the day, we're really -- as you said, we're a cash-rich
company, but we're also very good cash generator, so that means, we have to make sure that
we deploy our -- that cash responsibly and I think, like Chuck, I'm really proud of the way we put
the cash back in shareholder's hands last year in one way or another. And I think, we expect to
continue to be a great cash generator and we're aggressively looking for strategic ways to really
grow our business because growth is what it's all about. And so we're going to keep doing that.
Chuck you want to add anything to that?
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I agree. We have a very high bar for M&A, we've got a great history and a great track
record and to the extent we find great opportunities then we'll deploy it. Otherwise, we will
return the capital to shareholders as we've done, but I'm very comfortable with the cash balance
that we have. It's similar to where it's been the last couple of years. And so I think, it's sort of
steady as she goes on the capital allocation model.
Q - `Andreas Mueller, Analyst, ZKB `
Okay. And then last question on you -- with for you, Chuck, this $18 million restructuring charge
was that it now in this program, or should we look for more going forward?
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
There will be more charges. The accounting rules have kind of changed over the years, where it
used to just take all the charges upfront and then you would spend against those reserves, the
rules have changed a little bit. So there will be additional charges that we incur over the next few
quarters. But largely, the actions are all done internally. It's just more of a timing.
Q - `Andreas Mueller, Analyst, ZKB `
Okay, thank you very much.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much. All the best [ph] Michael?
A - `Nate Melihercik, Investor Relations `
Bracken and Chuck. Our final question for the morning is from `Michael Foeth, Analyst, Vontobel at Vontobel.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Hi, Michael. It's biking [ph] season-- so you're probably back out [ph].
Q - `Michael Foeth, Analyst, VontobelOkay. I have one on sustainability. You mentioned that your carbon labeling is now, I think 45% of
products. What holds you back from being fast and labeling the rest and is the process so
complex, is that maybe reason why it's also holding back your peers from doing the same?
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. I'll answer that. There are two things going on there, one is that, it is a -- we don't want to
just give a really high level estimate of carbon impact because we're taking scopes one, two and
three, which means from the components that go into our products, transportation end use and
end of life. So we're really taking the full period. We also need to have enough data to actually be
able to draw conclusions that are accurate. So some of our products that are newer. We really
have to give them a year before we have a good accurate assessment. So that's the -- that's one
of the drivers. The second one is, it just takes a while to then implement those into individual
products pack product by product.
So I'm really excited about how fast we've moved actually, I think one of the reasons why you
don't see it from other people is because it is -- it isn't easy. We're trying to make it easier. So
we've been working with an external provider to try to make that easier and more cost-efficient
because it's not terribly expensive but it costs money because we really strongly believe that
everybody should be carbon labeling in every industry, but this is really the one tool that we can
all use, governments can use to drive this all to be -- to have -- to compete with each other on
carbon.
Q - `Michael Foeth, Analyst, Vontobel
Okay, thank you. And then on your guidance for the first half of your fiscal year, what's -- which
categories are you most confident in that -- that will support that guidance and where do you
have more uncertainty looking in the first six months?
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well I have not -- I won't try to be anything except to be straightforward on this. It's a little hard to
say. I really think personal workspace seems pretty solid, mice and keyboards, it's just kind of a --
it's been great for us for instance, since 1981 also [ph] '82 and it continues to be and I think that
the gaming category will be solid, I think Video Collaboration, it's -- I kind of think that one, they
say enter cycle earlier on consumer and you exited earlier, and you enter cycle later on B2B and
you exit it later. So I would say, you know if you had to ask me, you really press me, I would say
the -- my guess is that the (inaudible) business will be sturdier and more reliable than the others,
but, but it's been a little hard to tell through the cycle, being one of the reasons why we only
guided six months because it's really harder to tell right now, especially on the B2B side.
Q - `Michael Foeth, Analyst, Vontobel
All right. And then a last one for Chuck, you mentioned, return on invested capital is your ultimate
metrics, is -- how long do you have to wait until that becomes sort of part of your long-term
model?
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
I don't think at this point we plan to use that for an outlook externally, it's an internal metric that
we track. And it's -- so I would not expect us to publish long-term outlook there.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `I do love that we're using it internally. And I think, it's a super important metric.
Q - `Michael Foeth, Analyst, Vontobel
Definitely. Thanks. Thanks a lot.
A - `Bracken Darrell, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Well, thanks to all of you. I'll jump in here. Nate, just -- I really appreciate all the
discussion, one quarter down, the minute we have more visibility, you can bet that -- or -- strong
visibility, we're going to -- we're going to go to the full year. As Chuck said and so thanks. We'll
see you in a quarter.