Y 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Nate Melihercik, Head of Global Investor Relations `
Good morning and good afternoon. Welcome to Logitech's Video Call to discuss our financial
results for the Fourth Quarter and Full Fiscal Year 2024. Joining us today are `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer, our
CEO; and `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer, our CFO.
During this call we will make forward-looking statements including with respect to future
operating results under the safe harbor of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
We're making these statements based on our views only as of today.
Our actual results could differ materially and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any
of these statements. We will also discuss non-GAAP financial results. You can find a reconciliation
between GAAP and non-GAAP results and information about our use of non-GAAP measures and
factors that could impact our financial results and forward-looking statements in our press release
and in our filings with the SEC.
These materials as well as the shareholder letter and a webcast of this call are all available at the
Investor Relations page of our website. We encourage you to review these materials carefully.
Unless noted otherwise, comparisons between periods are year-over-year and in constant
currency and net sales. This call is being recorded, and will be available for a replay on our
website.
I will now turn the call over to Hanneke.
`Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Nate. And welcome, everyone. In today's call, we're going to cover three items, all of
which are detailed in the shareholder letter that we released with our earnings materials.
First, Chuck will provide the highlights of our fourth quarter and our full year results. I'll then briefly
touch on my view of our current assets, the secular trends driving the business, and strategicdecisions that we're implementing. And I'm going to close with our financial outlook.
Let me start, though, by saying how pleased I am about the execution of our teams in the fourth
quarter. We returned to top-line growth. We executed at a very high level with both gross and
operating margins up year-over-year.
And before Chuck dives into the numbers, I want to thank him for an impactful tenure here at
Logitech. He's built a highly capable finance team, and he has helped drive the consistent
progress we've seen in the business over the last year. He's going to be missed, and we wish
him all the best.
And now, Chuck, over to you.
`Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, thank you, Hanneke. And thank you all for joining us on the call today. I am so proud of the
way our employees finished the year.
In addition to further enhancing the value chain, we continued our cost reductions and
promotional discipline. These factors all drove better than expected fourth quarter results. The
detailed financial results can be found in the press release and in the shareholder letter, but I'd
like to call your attention to three metrics.
First, we are pleased to see Q4 revenue return to growth at plus 5%. However, please note, the
channel inventory reduction in Q4 was lower than last year's reduction. When normalized for the
change in channel inventory, net sales growth was closer to plus 3%.
Second, our Q4 non-GAAP gross margin of 43.6% was better than expected due to lower
product costs, lower inventory reserves, and reduced promotional activities. For the year, we
achieved non-GAAP gross margin of 41.8%, a tremendous accomplishment by the team and
comfortably within the range of our operating model.
And finally, the business continues to generate impressive cashflow. In Q4, we delivered $239
million operating cashflow, totaling over $1.1 billion for the year. We returned almost $700 million
to our shareholders and ended the year with a fortress balance sheet.
Thank you, Hanneke, and thank you, Logitech, for the opportunity to serve. It's been a real
pleasure, and I will miss everyone.
With that, I'll turn it back over to Hanneke. Hanneke?
`Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Chuck. So in my first 100 days, I've met with hundreds of employees, customers,
partners, and shareholders, and their passion and excitement about Logitech's future, as well as
their healthy dissatisfaction with the levels of top-line growth of the last two years, were palpable.
And these interactions have been super helpful as I shape the plans for Logitech's future.
Everything starts with our mission. Logitech extends human potential in work and play. Extending
human potential is exciting. It means helping people be more productive, perform better, win that
game, and connect more easily, all in ways that are more sustainable and more equitable.
We will pursue this mission with a terrific set of existing assets that we built from. We have world-
class design and engineering expertise. We have a strong brand with high levels of brandgo-to-market capabilities in more than 100 countries. And we're an operations powerhouse with
a relentless focus on cost, inventory, quality, and customer service.
Now, as we look forward, we see five external trends that we believe will affect our business.
First, new ways of working, or splitting time between working at the office, at home and on the
go. It's here to stay, highlighting the need for multiple workspaces and the need for more video
collaboration.
Second, gaming has gone mainstream. Nearly every age, gender, and demographic is gaming
today, providing an opportunity for us to provide more tools to a wider community of gamers.
Third, we're in the early innings of a major AI transformation, and Logitech will be and already is,
an important part of the emerging AI ecosystem. Fourth, climate change is impacting every
country, every business, and every society. Logitech intends to continue to be a leader for
sustainability in tech.
And the final trend is the increasing importance of trust in a world where trust in government, the
media, science, and in business is at an all-time low. Logitech delivers trusted experiences. With
assets like our well-established Swiss brand and high privacy and security standards, we are very
well positioned.
I've come to really like this combination of strong assets and long-term secular tailwinds. To take
advantage of them, we're in the process of implementing a number of new strategic decisions to
accelerate profitable growth, where to play, and how to win choices, if you will.
Let me share those briefly with you. First, work and play. We will continue to innovate and grow in
the core categories that we compete in today, personal workspace, video collaboration, and
gaming. But there is more room to grow.
Today in work, we're focused on office workers. Most people in the world don't sit in offices every
day. They work in retail, in education, in healthcare, in manufacturing, in construction, and other
places.
And in play, we are mainly focused on PC gaming today. There are other play opportunities,
console and mobile, and even beyond in what I call active play. Expanding our definitions of work
and play significantly broadens our total addressable markets.
Second, we will create competitive advantage through a focus on design-led software-enabled
hardware. Those words are carefully chosen. We differentiate our hardware with world-class
design and with advanced software insight.
Third, we will double down on the B2B, the business-to-business channel. Our B2B business is
twice as big as it was in 2019, but I would still call us relatively young in this channel. Further
strengthening our B2B capabilities and domain expertise offers significant opportunities for future
growth.
Fourth, we will build out our already strong global presence. We will reapply best practices to
drive a more consistent share of wallet across our developed markets and further extend our
presence in emerging markets. Combined, these geographic opportunities represent more than
$1 billion of incremental growth.
And fifth, we will focus on building the Logitech brands and take it from good to truly iconic, that
single Logitech brand. That's where to play.Now, how will we win? We will relentlessly drive product superiority through innovation. We will
build on our reputation for operational excellence and discipline, and we will continue our
industry-leading work to reduce carbon emissions across our value chain.
Now, let me turn to the outlook and what this set of choices means for the near-term and longer-
term profile of our business. Our first priority is to return to business to annualized growth in fiscal
25. We're targeting low single-digit growth with strong operating margins.
Our goal in the midterm is to return organic growth to mid-single digits. Potential acquisitions
would be incremental to that. We believe this growth, supported by non-GAAP gross margins in
the 39% to 44% range and non-GAAP operating margins of 14% to 17%, represents an attractive
investment profile.
In summary, the path ahead builds on Logitech's impressive set of strengths, takes advantage of
secular trends, and makes a number of clear strategic choices going forward. With that
combination, I'm confident that Logitech's future is bright and its best days are still ahead.
Thank you. Before we now move to Q&A, one final administrative comment. We spoke last
quarter about our plans to host an Analyst and Investor Day in May. With Chuck moving on to a
new opportunity, we thought it prudent to modify our plans. We will host a more traditional AID
later in the year with the exact timing to follow.
And with that, Nate, let's move to Q&A.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
A - `Nate Melihercik, Head of Global Investor Relations `
Great. For everyone on the call, if you could raise your hand if you are interested in asking a
question, and we will call on you. Our first question today will be from `Alex Duval, Goldman Sachs at Goldman
Sachs.
Q - `Alex Duval, Goldman Sachs `
Yes. Many thanks for the question. And many thanks, Chuck, for everything. Greatly appreciated.
My first question is just on gross margin. Obviously, you had a very strong gross margin in the
quarter. I wondered if you could talk about how sustainable that is, and also, to what degree, was
lower promotional spend because of a stronger demand environment? In recent holiday
windows, consumers preferred to shop during the promotional days, so just curious how the
trend was there.
And secondly, on video collaboration, we saw slight year-on-year growth. I wondered if that really
signals a start of a recovery here and tripping in the cycle, which is obviously something we've
been waiting for, for a number of quarters. Curious on your view there and how sustainable the
growth can be and whether you'll be investing behind that in terms of boosting the channel. Many
thanks.
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Why don't I take the B2B and you start off with gross margin, Chuck? Yes.A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. That's sounds -- let's have Nate on gross margins here.
A - `Nate Melihercik, Head of Global Investor Relations `
Sure. Hey, Alex, thanks for the question. So a couple of things on the gross margin. We were
about four points ahead of where we had talked about the quarter landing last quarter, and so
those gains were equally across four different areas.
One, we had talked about potential pressure in the Suez Canal. Teams did a great job operating.
There wasn't that pressure. It didn't manifest itself, so that was a tailwind. You also mentioned
promos. Promos was a part of it as well. Going from the holiday quarter to the last holiday
quarter, there's promotional tailwinds.
Costs continued to kick in, so that would be the third of the four that helped. And then we had a
little bit of regional mix. Europe did a little bit better, China a little bit worse, so that provided
some tailwinds as well.
So that kind of helps you bridge, I think, from where we thought maybe the quarter would be and
where it ended. Obviously, a tremendous quarter from a gross margin perspective, really-really
happy with the performance on that front.
Any other to add, Chuck?
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I would just add on your question, Alex. Is it sustainable? And the answer is, yes. Our target
operating model is 39% to 44%. We finished Q4 at the high end of that model. What a great
quarter. Next year, if you look at the prepared materials, we outlined an approximate 41% target
for next year. Could be a little higher, could be a little lower, but it is sustainable and it's really
driven on the heels of amazing cost reduction.
Our operations team has just crushed it, bringing product costs down. So thank you, Prakash, Suri,
that whole team has crushed it. And then our go-to-market team has done an amazing job of
being more disciplined on channel inventory and how we promote. So I do think that's sustainable
in the long term. Some years might be above, closer to the high end of that model. Some could
be a little lower. And we can talk about those factors later if you'd like. But thank you, Alex.
And Hanneke, do you want to talk about B2B and video?
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So B2B and video, obviously, really important to our future. And I was super pleased to see
growth for the first time in many-many quarters in that segment in Q4. And I would say
underneath that 2% growth, there's a number of other green shoots for our business.
We continued to lead the market in VC, so hold the number one share, slightly grew that in the
quarter as well. PWS also grew really well in the channel, close to double-digit, actually, which was
great to see. And we had record services sales. And as I said earlier, we're a little young in B2B,
so services are relatively new to us, but they're growing fast.
So I think our performance in the channel has been very good and will continue to improve. As we
look at the market beyond our own execution, I think it hasn't picked up tremendously. And that'sbecause office vacancies are still high because IT budgets continue to be a little stretched or
probably flat corporate IT budgets from what we can see. And within that IT teams are having to
prioritize AI spend.
So the market isn't quite back. Our performance in the channel is very-very strong. When that
market snaps back, we'll be really ready to take advantage of that.
Q - `Alex Duval, Goldman Sachs `
Many thanks. Appreciate it.
Operator
Great. Our next question is from `Asiya Merchant, Citi at Citi. Asiya?
Q - `Asiya Merchant, Citi `
Great. I hope you guys can hear me. Good morning. And thank you again, Chuck, for a great
partnership and for all the help over the last few quarters. Just a quick question, Hanneke, you
outlined several great TAM opportunities to grow your expandable market. The cautious guide I
understand perhaps related to temporary budget spending. But given great margins here, do
you think you would need to invest with higher levels of OpEx here in the near term to drive
perhaps the organic growth a little bit higher? Or do you think the model here is right sized?
Thank you.
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So going forward, we've guided on our midterm model. We've guided on gross margins,
39% to 44%, and on operating margins 14% to 17%. I think OpEx won't be super far from the 25%,
but I think it's right to not box us in necessarily. We should always be prioritizing investment in
both R&D and brand building.
So you may see quarters where that's a little higher than the 25%. And that's okay if we're
spending it on good cholesterol that drives growth. What's important is, again, that top line,
those single digits, accelerating the high single digits, and then those gross margins and those
operating income margins.
Q - `Asiya Merchant, Citi `
Great. And then just, if I may, in near term, given all the details in the shareholder letter that you
guide, wasn't clear to me, given the growth rate that you're guiding for this next fiscal year, if VC
is growing here or declining, given the flattish or plus 1% growth expectations, but then VC seems
to be a little bit lower on that bar.
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So what I was really pleased about in Q4 is that the growth was broad-based. So every
region grew and every key segment, every key category grew, including VC. I think going forward,
that's what we'll be aiming for. And we're not guiding here the exact growth rates of any of the
specific categories, but I think it will and can be broad-based.
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Asiya, in the shareholder letter, we outlined and ranked the kind of high margin to lowerindicate that our view, based on industry research, the industry private investigators are calling
sort of flattish to slightly growing market. We're being cautious because of the items that
Hanneke mentioned.
I do think this is one that when interest rates normalize, office vacancy normalizes, this is a great
category that should outsize growth for the company overall in the long-term. I think next year
we're being a little cautious. Thank you.
A - `Nate Melihercik, Head of Global Investor Relations `
Thanks, Asiya. Next up from Deutsche Bank is George Brown. Good afternoon, George.
Q - `George-Samuel Brown, Deutsche Bank
Afternoon, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. I have two, if I may. So firstly, in terms of your
sales outlook for next year, if we take the midpoint and use your expectations on seasonality, this
implies growth of roughly 5% in the first half, but a decline of 2% in the second half. I understand
that this divergence is partly driven by improving growth trends in fiscal year '24. But is there any
other reason for the decline in the second half of the year?
And then secondly, I noticed on your shareholder letter that you reiterated your long-term targets
on profitability, but you didn't mention anything about your long-term growth target of 8% to 10%.
I'm just wondering how we should interpret this. Thanks, guys.
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
I'll do the first part, Hanneke. If you want to do the second part.
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Absolutely.
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
So thank you, George, for the quick math. And we wanted to provide the seasonality because it's
a little different than historical. The primary driver is we have done a really good job of leaning out
channel inventory. And so now when you compare to history, it's going to look a little different
going forward, this should be the more normalized profile.
And what that means is there's going to be a little more sell-in, in Q1, the quarter we're in right
now, the June quarter. Then you'll see a little more sell-in in Q2, followed by more sell-out in Q3
and Q4. And so the real kind of way to think about this is the right operating model is weeks on
hand, how much channel inventory should we have for weeks on hand?
And when you compare that to last year, where we were still leaning out the channel throughout
the year, the year-on-year growth is going to look really strong for Q1. So when you do the math,
we're going to have a really strong Q1 compared to prior year, but it's based on the right target
operating model.
Now, what does that mean for the full year? Could Q3 and Q4 be higher? Of course. That's a
long ways off. You know, the December quarter is our biggest quarter. But you're going to see a
pretty strong Q1, a pretty strong Q2. We have really done a good job of having the business be
more linear. What we sell-in each month now is more similar.And then that should translate into better margins and a new kind of seasonal model based on
weeks on hand. So don't read into it a lot with that seasonality, other than we're running a leaner
supply chain. And this is reflective of putting the right product in the channel for the weeks on
hand on a forward-looking basis.
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Super. And I'm glad, George, that you're asking the question on 8% to 10%, because that's
obviously a really important one. What we're doing here is clarifying the organic growth piece of
that, which is what we can control. And I think we owe that to you guys to be a little more specific
on organic.
So what you've seen is our outlook for next year on the organic is low single digit. Beyond that,
we will accelerate as soon as we humanly can to mid-single digits. And why do I believe that is
true? We believe our markets, thanks to those tailwinds of new ways of working, gaming, and AI,
we believe our markets will be GDP plus.
If you combine that with modest share growth, you get to those mid-single digit rates. That's also
what the company did pre-COVID. So if you look at the seven-year pre-COVID CAGR, it was 5%.
If you look at the five years pre-COVID CAGR, it was 7%. So again, mid-single digits, it's what our
track record was, and we believe we can do that going forward.
Any M&A would come on top of that, but it's harder to predict. So -- and I would say it can be
huge, it can be small, it can be a mountain or a molehill. And I would hate to artificially cap the size
of M&A. I would also hate to over-promise on the size of M&A. We'll be thoughtful, we'll be
deliberate and strategic on M&A, but I think it's important that we provide that clarity on the
organic growth rates, which is what is our priority right now.
Q - `George-Samuel Brown, Deutsche Bank
Perfect. Thank you, guys.
A - `Nate Melihercik, Head of Global Investor Relations `
Thanks, George. Next up, let's go to Bank of America, `Didier Scemama, Bank of America. Didier, are you there?
Q - `Didier Scemama, Bank of America `
Yes. Obviously tech analysts do not know how to unmute. Apologies. Good morning, everyone. A
question for Hanneke, I'm a bit surprised you have lowered your long-term growth target, not
because I don't understand it, but because effectively you just told us that you're going to invest
a bit more to increase your TAM by about a $1 billion.
So I would have expected at the very least, the organic growth to have been the same as it was,
but now you're telling us that effectively some of the core categories are going to decelerate, if
not shrink, is that the right way to understand it? And I'm going to follow up. Thank you.
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
I wouldn't say so, Didier. I think, well, I know the previous 8% to 10%, which has been around for a
long time, always included M&A, which made it rather obtuse. Because again, M&A can be huge,
it can be small, it's hard to predict when it will come.So I think it's important that we give you some guidance on what we think this business can do
organically. For next year, that's low single digits. And then from there, we'll take that to mid-
single digits. That's by no means a deceleration of where we've been. That's where we were
pre-COVID. In the last two years, obviously we were down across our categories. So we look
forward to accelerating that business and I'm very optimistic about our ability to do that.
Q - `Didier Scemama, Bank of America `
Excellent. And I think, your long-term gross margin model hasn't changed, but should we
understand from your commentary that you expect to operate towards, let's say, the upper end
of that range and that you're going to invest effectively what's on top of that in R&D to accelerate
your top-line maybe in the longer term?
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So within the OpEx, definitely what I would like to do is shift more to the S rather than the
G&A, which is marketing and R&D because that's what drives in the end our gross margins and
our ability to premium price our products. So, yes on that.
On gross margins, I wouldn't -- we're guiding a range 39% to 44% for the longer term. For next
year, we think we can be around 41%, which is great. Should that change going forward, we'll let
you know. But a broad range, given the uncertainties in the environment, I think is prudent for
now.
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
I would just -- I'll also add, Didier, that it's an important kind of philosophy that Logitech has, and
this is broader than Hanneke and I. This is kind of in the business groups and go to market is -- we
are not going to give up share in the mainstream and lower end. We will fight the margin game at
the low end.
Why? We make our money in mid-tier to high end. And so you will see periods where we're more
aggressively promoting to defend our share of shelf at broad scale, e-com and retail. And so
there will be periods where we're fighting more to maintain share or grow share.
The long-term model, 39% to 44%, makes perfect sense. This year, as we see it today, 41% is a
really good planning number. But understand that I wouldn't encourage you to go to the high end
of the model permanently because competition can be fierce, and we will defend our turf.
Q - `Didier Scemama, Bank of America `
Thanks so much.
A - `Nate Melihercik, Head of Global Investor Relations `
Great. Let's go to `George Wang, Barclays at Barclays.
Q - `George Wang, Barclays `
Hey guys. Thanks for taking my questions. Just two quick ones. In the prepared remark, you
talked about some AI tailwind, most people don't associate necessarily Logitech with AI, at least
in the near term. Maybe you can pass out some of the kind of drivers, kind of, and when do you
think we could possibly see some tailwind on the P&L side?A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Great. Thanks for the question. So Logitech already is part of that AI ecosystem, and we look
at it in three ways. The first way, of course, is to drive in-house productivity like every other
company on the planet, so I won't talk about that.
The other two ways we look at AI is really to drive growth. First, that is in our software. And a
good example of this is what we launched on April 17, a couple of weeks ago, the Logi AI Prompt
Builder. That sits in -- I was going to grab my mouse, I'm so used to having my mouse here, but
that sits in all our mice and keyboards.
And it's basically a productivity enhancer. I don't know if you guys use -- if you use ChatGPT a lot,
but if you use it a lot for summarizing, for rephrasing, for translating, you have to go out of the
work that you're doing and go into ChatGPT, copy, paste, come back in. So one of the consumer
needs we identified early on was to make that faster and more fluent.
So what -- the software, the Logi AI Prompt Builder, that's now for free, by the way, across all our
products, lets you stay in the flow. That's pretty cool. We have a million active usage occasions
already in less than two weeks. People really like it. That's a way to make our products better. And
we firmly believe when you have superior products, you will grow faster. So that's the one way,
working with the ChatGPTs of the world to help people enhance their productivity.
The other way is probably even more fundamental, which is improving audio and video based on
machine learning and large language models with our own data models. I talked about this a little
bit at our last call, but products like the Logitech Sight video conferencing tool are outstanding.
We used machine learning, fed all the data in. What happens in a big conference room, normally
there's 10 of you on one side, one of you on the other side. The person on the other side can't
see who's speaking, just sees little heads. It's not a great experience.
With the Logitech Sight, it recognizes who's speaking, but thanks to the AI underneath, it also not
just knows who's speaking, but it knows when you're opening a packet of crisps that it shouldn't
focus on you. It's like having a really intelligent producer inside of the product.
Same is true for audio, where in our headsets we've implemented, again, the same machine
learning to get perfect two-way noise cancellation. So lots of way in which we're using machine
learning and large data models to make our products more superior. And again, the more we can
grow that superiority delta and delight our consumers, I think the faster we grow. That's why we
see this as a tailwind.
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
There's one other angle too, I would just add, and that is if you're tracking, Dell or Lenovo or
even HP in some cases, they're talking about a pretty significant chip refresh in their fleet of PCs.
And while we've talked about there's not a huge correlation between PC shipments and the sell
of our gear, there is a correlation. So as you see that PC refresh cycle happening with AI chips
going more local in the machine, that we think will have an attach rate that will be a tailwind to us
over time as you see a large PC refresh happening.
Q - `George Wang, Barclays `
Got it. Just a quick follow-up if I can. Just in terms of China, you guys called out some continual
weakness in China, especially on the gaming side. You guys mentioned some competitive
intensity and some potential share loss. Just curious kind of whether you see that as a morecontinuous pressure in the next few quarters, and then maybe you can provide a bit more color
on that, especially the gaming side in China.
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Absolutely. So there is -- the business in China on the gaming side is a little softer than I
would like for it to be. It's not all bad. When you look at the premium mice, we're still doing well,
we're still growing, we're still number one. And I think what's also reassuring is the brand is still
very strong. It has strong awareness, a strong reputation that continues to be super important
because there's literally more than a thousand other brands and peripherals in China.
So to have the brand that is the strongest in the market is really-really key. And that said, there is
intense competition and we need to do better. So I've challenged my teams to come up with
plans to compete more effectively in China, that's one of our top priorities for the months ahead.
And I'm confident that we will turn that around.
Q - `George Wang, Barclays `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Nate Melihercik, Head of Global Investor Relations `
Great. Let's go to `Joern Iffert, UBS at UBS. Hello, Jorn.
Q - `Joern Iffert, UBS `
Hi. Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. And Chuck, all the best to you in the future.
Thanks for all your help and support. Three quick questions, please. The first one would be,
please, on gaming. Can you share with us how strong the growth in simulation devices was?
Because I remember this can be cyclical. And also why gaming is now dropping to the lower end
of the gross profit margin range, as you indicated in the shareholder letter?
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure, Joern. Thank you for the kind words. Simulation is a great business, and our team is crushing
it. The results -- we don't break out the detail for you, but simulation margins are good, business
is up, and we feel really good about the simulation business. So I think, more to come on that
one. And we do feel good about that in general.
In terms of margins dropping on gaming, I wouldn't say that they're dropping on gaming. Margins
have always been challenging on gaming. If you think about our overall portfolio, and in the
shareholder letter we rank the different categories. But within gaming, which is one line, there are
vastly different margins.
Think of console headsets. Before our new product, the A50X, which is awesome and great
margin and a killer new product in that category, console headset margins are terrible. They're
bad for our competitors. It's a very-very competitive space. We have changed the game by
offering a really unique, innovative, different product that no one else has that we think will
change the margin profile on console headsets.
Gaming mice, we're the market leader. Margins are quite good. Gaming keyboards, a little more
competitive. Simulation margins are quite good. And there's many other categories within
gaming. But overall, it's a fairly competitive business, and therefore it's a little lower margin than
our flagship products like video, mice, keyboards, the area -- the B2B ones especially.So all the businesses are great, and the margins in gaming are up significantly year-over-year. So I
will say thank you to Ujesh, the gaming team. They've done a great job of driving costs down,
holding margin, holding promo, and doing great.
One word of caution though for the models, for Q1, there will be some margin pressure in Q1. It's
the June 18 holiday, big promo window in China, and we're going to win that holiday. We want to
come in strong. We'll be price competitive. It will bring margins for the company down a little bit,
but we do intend to fight back. And Hanneke has challenged the team to do better, and I think we
can.
Q - `Joern Iffert, UBS `
Okay. Thanks for this. And the second question, please, to Hanneke. Hanneke, how are you
changing internal processes? How is decision-making changing? So if you can give us some
insights that you have tried to improve things or change things.
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Great question. Thanks. I think the first thing is setting out these clear strategic choices,
because when you're unclear, things tend to swirl inside the company, and I want to avoid that at
all costs going forward. So the choices of work and play, that's where we will play. We'll look at
those markets in a larger way, but that's our space.
The choice of design-led software-enabled hardware, again, very carefully chosen words. We are
not going to do adventures in pure software that's unrelated to our hardware. We're also not
going to play with plain hardware. Our hardware has software inside and leads with design. Those
are important choices to put on a piece of paper because they've led to some swirl here in the
past.
The choice to double down on B2B will drive some of our resource investments when it comes to
capabilities. The choices on geographic opportunities and making sure that everyone performs at
the very highest level and we don't have these share wallet differences between similar
countries. And finally, the choice of one iconic brand is really important versus the multi-brand
strategy of the past.
So I think making those clear choices will help people know what to expect and will help us move
faster. I also believe structure follows strategy. So we'll be adjusting the organization going
forward to make sure we can drive those clear choices and drive really attractive profitable
growth going forward.
Q - `Joern Iffert, UBS `
Thank you. And the very last question, really a quick one on the Chief Design Officer position. Can
you just remind me who it is right now and if the other structure has changed?
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Absolutely. Yes. No. So we announced earlier in the quarter I believe sometime in February that
Malin Leschly, who's a fabulous Swedish designer who had been with Logitech for a little while has
been appointed our new Chief Design Officer. She is off to a roaring start. We love what she's
doing. The design team just in the last couple of weeks won 10 super prestigious Red Dot Design
Awards. So the design team just keeps performing incredibly well under her leadership.Q - `Joern Iffert, UBS `
Thank you.
A - `Nate Melihercik, Head of Global Investor Relations `
Thank you, Joern. Let's go to `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital, at Loop. Hey, Ananda.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital `
Yes. Thanks, Nate. Appreciate it. Good morning, guys. Yes. And Chuck, been great working with
you, really -- it's really been value add, and your proactiveness actually has been noticeable over
the years. So really appreciate that.
I guess, just kind of clarification and then one quick question here. Hanneke, you had mentioned
kind of when you're talking about mid-single digit, returning to mid-single digit growth in the
intermediate term, my interpretation. You mentioned 5% and 7%. And so do you relate to 5% to
7% as mid-single digit growth or were you just providing for instance?
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Well, those were the growth rates pre-COVID. So those were for instances. In my book, mid-
single digits goes all the way from 3% to 7%. So that's the guide we're providing.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital `
Got it. And with high singles, did it be an aspiration longer term for the company?
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Again, I think what we're guiding that mid-single digits for is organic. I would hope that with our
balance sheet, we would be adding M&A to that. So, then -- we can do the math and we would
do a little more.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital `
Is it too early to say, if high single-digit organic would be something that the company could go
for a long time.
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
To early to say.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital `
Well, got it. That's it for me. I appreciate it. I'll get you guys on the call back. Thanks, guys.
A - `Nate Melihercik, Head of Global Investor Relations `
Thanks, Ananda. Next up we'll go to Morgan Stanley, `Erik Woodring, Morgan Stanley. Hey, Erik.
Q - `Erik Woodring, Morgan Stanley `
Hey, guys. Good morning. Thank you for taking my questions. I have two, please. Maybe just the
first one. If we just double-click on the channel inventory comments, I just want to gain a little bitwould imply you filled the channel. So I just want to make sure I'm thinking about that right or if I'm
not, what I'm missing there?
And then beyond the March quarter, just to Chuck, to get to your comments. I understand maybe
your approach to filling and draining the channel might be different as we look forward. From my
seat, I guess it just seems as though you're filling the channel at a different time as opposed to
changing the underlying maybe fundamentals or visibility of the business. And so can you maybe
just help me understand how this maybe new approach to channel inventory benefits Logitech
outside of just timing-related factors?
And then last question related to this. I'm sorry for the multi-part questions. Just if sell-in is up --
flat to up 2% in fiscal '25, how should we think about sell-through expectations for fiscal '25?
Thanks.
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
Great, Erik. Thank you. I'm trying to see if I can get all your questions remembered and articulated
properly.
Q - `Erik Woodring, Morgan Stanley `
I apologize.
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
So you may have to follow up if I don't exactly hit the nail on the head. So first of all, sell-in was
flat. It's in the shareholder letter -- sorry, sell-through was flat year-over-year. Sell-in was up 5%. As
I mentioned earlier, two points of that is simply comparing the channel inventory year-over-year.
So a year ago, we took channel inventory down more than it came down in Q4 of this year. So
really, the way to think about that is two points of the five is the channel inventory, reduction this
year was lower than the channel inventory reduction was a year ago.
The other three points of growth is really promotional effectiveness. Basically, we're selling the
same number of units, but we have more profit per unit. Therefore, there's more revenue
because of higher profitability and less promotional activity. And we've seen that in other quarters
as well. It's a more disciplined approach to how we do promos. So that part should be fairly
straightforward. If not, I can follow up if you ask another question.
On the 0% to 2%, I think your question was what should sell-through be? I would expect sell-
through to also be roughly 0% to 2%. Effectively, we should be ending the year about where we
started from a channel inventory standpoint. And the operating model is really for us, it's have a
linear business where we're selling every month, every day, every week. We're selling, that's how
customers buy.
B2B can be a little different, but generally the customers are buying every day, every month,
every week. And we want our factories to run that way and ship that way. And that matches how
customers buy. Now, what's different is, for example, in China, there's a big promo window, June
18. So we tip the product into the field in advance of that, and that's this forward weeks on hand
operating model.
So in China, we'll be shipping a lot more product in this month in May -- April and May to get
ready for that promo window. And then it will come down a little bit. As we think about Amazon
Prime Days, we'll be selling in an advance of those days. So what all we're doing now is matchingthe December quarter, the holiday window is the biggest quarter of the year for us, the
December quarter.
We'll start having that fill happening in late September, October, early November. And then again,
the channel will come out. So all the hard work that we've done a year ago now is going to pay
fruit. And that should mean better margins and lower operating costs, which should translate into
a very compelling gross margin of that 41%-ish this year and in that range of 39% to 44% for the
years to come.
Q - `Erik Woodring, Morgan Stanley `
Okay. Very clear. And then maybe just as my follow-up. Hanneke, just in terms of -- it's felt for a
few months now you've emphasized M&A a bit more than your predecessor. Logitech hasn't
really made a large acquisition in, I'd say, over a decade, at least one that would move the
needle. And you have very clearly spent a lot on shareholder returns.
And so, I guess, big picture, is it your view you're going to lean more into what I would kind of call
transformational M&A prior, more than prior executives? Is that kind of how the Board is thinking
about this? Is this how shareholders are thinking about the future?
And would that be, still be incremental to your capital returns? Or would that capital -- excuse me,
cannibalize some of what you've been returning to shareholders? Obviously, a very nice -- a very
strong balance sheet. But just how should we think about those different dynamics going
forward? Thank you so much.
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Thanks, EriK. I can't speak for my predecessor, but I'm -- what I'm hoping to get across here
is that our priority right now is organic growth. That's why we're guiding that low single-digit grow
into mid-single digit. That's what's under our control.
Now, on top of that, with our balance sheet, we do have opportunity for M&A. The key is that that
is thoughtful, deliberate and strategic. Size is a factor, but it's just one of many factors. What's
more important is really thoughtful because what I've learned over the years is doing the deal is
really easy, making it a success is much harder. So organic growth is what is our number one
priority at the moment, but if there's good M&A opportunities, we won't hesitate to take
advantage.
Q - `Erik Woodring, Morgan Stanley `
Super. Thank you so much, guys.
A - `Nate Melihercik, Head of Global Investor Relations `
Thanks, Erik. Our last question today is from `Michael Foeth, Vontobel at Vontobel. Hello, Michael.
Q - `Michael Foeth, Vontobel
Yes. Hi. Thank you. Two questions from my side. You mentioned the expansion of your sort of
mice and keyboards or work business into or outside of the office. Can you maybe be a bit more
specific in what sort of applications you have in mind there and how that should significantly
increase your addressable market?And the second question is regarding your brand strategy. I was wondering how and when you
plan to phase out those brands like, UE and Logitech G, and you name them all the sub-brands if
you want.
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Let me take that second one first because I can be quite brief. We are not phasing out
Logitech G. So Logitech G is Logitech, so -- and the G stands for gaming, which makes sense.
So if I insinuated that, that was not clear. So Logitech and Logitech G are very much part of the
same mother brand, and we're going to do our darndest best to make those iconic. 97% of
Logitech's revenue today is in Logitech and Logitech G. So the multi-brand strategy was a big
talking point, but in reality, most of it is actually Logitech and Logitech G, so that's where our focus
will be.
Great question on work. So again, most people in the world don't work in offices. So we are
starting to put our toes into the water in some of these other spaces that I talked about.
Education is a good example. It's a very large work market, and one where our existing product
portfolio can be curated to play quite effectively. So we have started to sell into education. We
saw really good growth, actually, in the fourth quarter on that business.
One example is headsets, which are important in schools. We sell headsets. We have absolutely
superior headset technology. What you need in elementary schools is the smaller headsets and
headsets that are more robust, because kids throw their headsets around.
So, with relatively limited R&D adjustments, we make the very best headsets for education. We
started to sell those, again, with very encouraging results in a very large TAM. And what I
personally like is some of the testing we've done with schools in America turns out that kids using
our headsets have more peace and quiet and actually read 40% more books in class than before.
So, I love it when we really deliver on consumer and family needs like that and grow the business
incrementally from it.
Q - `Michael Foeth, Vontobel
Thank you. And thanks, Chuck, as well. Good luck.
A - `Chuck Boynton, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Michael.
A - `Nate Melihercik, Head of Global Investor Relations `
Thanks, Michael. And with that, Hanneke, that's our last question for today.
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thanks, everyone. And again, yes, thanks, Chuck. His last hurray. It's been a real pleasure
to work together. And I look forward to seeing you all again.