Y 2025 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Nathan Melihercik, Global Head of Investor Relations, M&A and Corporate Strategy
(Call Started Abruptly) based on our views only as of today. Our actual results could differ
materially, and we take -- undertake no obligation to update or revise any of these statements.
We will also discuss non-GAAP financial results, and you can find a reconciliation between GAAP
and non-GAAP results and information about use of non-GAAP information and factors that could
impact our financial results and forward-looking statements in our press release and in our filings
with the SEC. These materials, as well as the shareholder letter and a webcast of this call, are all
available at our Investor Relations page of our website. We encourage you to review these
materials carefully.
Unless noted otherwise, references to net sales growth are in constant currency, and
comparisons between periods are year-over-year. This call is being recorded and will be available
for a replay on our website.
With that, I will now turn the call over to Hanneke. Hanneke?
`Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Nate, and welcome, everyone, to the call. Fiscal year 2025 was a year of outstanding
results for Logitech. We delivered strong, profitable growth, driven by progress against our
strategic priorities. Specifically for the year, we delivered 7% constant-currency net sales growth.
That growth was broad-based across geographies, product categories, and customers. We
expanded market share in key product categories and remained the number-one or number-two
player in 11 of the 13 categories that we compete in.
We also expanded non-GAAP gross margins by 170 basis points and non-GAAP operating
margins by 70 basis points, growing our operating income to $775 million, and we continue to
generate a very healthy amount of cash. We generated about $840 million of cash from
operations in fiscal '25, more than one time's operating income, and we returned approximately
$800 million to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.Now, our success in fiscal '25 can be attributed to four strategic drivers. First, superior products
and innovation. Innovation is at the heart of Logitech's strategy, an integral to our DNA. In fiscal
'25, we launched 39 new products. Globally, bestsellers included the Combo Touch Keyboard
Case for the new iPad, the Pro X Superlight Wireless Gaming Mouse, and the A50 gaming
headset family. In China, the new Alto Keys Mechanical Customizable Keyboard became the
country's best-selling personal workspace mechanical keyboard. These launches and the many
design awards that we received for innovation illustrate our ability to deliver design-led, software-
enabled hardware innovation that delights users around the world.
Second, we doubled down on B2B. Logitech for Business played an important role in Logitech's
success this year. We saw healthy end customer demand growth of about 7% in dollars.
Investments in smarter products and go-to-market capabilities fueled growth across video
collaboration, headsets, and personal workspace products sold to enterprise customers. We're
also seeing great expansion in our education vertical with double-digit year-over-year demand
growth, and we're seeing double-digit growth in services revenue.
Third, excellent execution across our geographies. We rapidly reapplied best practices and
proven strategies from market to market to strengthen our global performance across the board.
And, finally, operational excellence. Our foundational strength as an operations powerhouse
delivered record product cost reductions, driving the second-highest annual non-GAAP gross
margins in the last decade. Our fourth quarter reflected all of these same strategic factors as well
as disciplined execution by our teams. I want to extend my appreciation to all of our employees
for delivering an excellent fiscal year 2025.
Now, as we enter fiscal '26, we are faced with a wide range of potential outcomes. When it
comes to tariffs, consumer and customer confidence, and geopolitics. While acknowledging that
uncertainty, we are confident heading into our fiscal year. Logitech was built to compete in good
times and through uncertainty. That's because of a number of unique strengths that we built over
the years. We have a balanced global customer base. We generate about two-thirds of our global
sales outside the United States, which positions as well to manage market-specific risks. We
invested in a broad diversified manufacturing footprint across six countries.
Today, only about 40% of our products sold in the United States originate from China, with the
rest coming from five other countries. We have more room for diversification, and we're able to
rapidly shift production to optimize cost and mitigate tariff impacts. By the end of this calendar
year, we're planning for only about 10% of U.S. products to be sourced from China.
We also invested in a strong globally recognized brand and superior products, which we believe
provides brand loyalty and, importantly, pricing power. We have a pristine balance sheet, offering
financial flexibility, and we invest in people. We have a very experienced operational and
commercial team, who built expertise through the tariffs of the two previous administrations as
well as through COVID-19. Their expertise, frankly, is unmatched in our industry.
With this advantage start point, our approach for the year ahead will be based on three core
principles. One, we're going to play offense. We to decisively expand market share at this time.
We exited fiscal year '25 with great momentum, and we believe continued investments in R&D,
marketing, and sales will help us drive lasting competitive advantage. Two, cost discipline will be
critical, both when it comes to product cost and OpEx, especially G&A. And, three, agility. We are
moving very rapidly to leverage our broad manufacturing footprint and take the necessary
commercial actions. We know things are fluid, and we're acting fast.So, as we look at the first quarter of fiscal '26, we expect a number of dynamics to shape
performance, not all of them certain at this point. Here's what we know. We know that the current
set of tariffs and exemptions represent about a 200 basis point hit to global gross margins in the
first quarter. That impact is mitigated in Q1 by the fact that we're still selling through inventory that
we were able to proactively pull into the U.S. before April. Matteo will provide more detail.
We also know that we have announced a set of targeted price increases to customers in the
United States, which are being implemented from mid-April. We don't necessarily like to raise
prices, but the current context requires it. Our increases are intentionally tailored to select
products rather than a one-size-fits-all approach. We've taken into account the role of each
product, strategic price points, and how to best optimize value for our consumers and B2B
customers. Some prices have remained unchanged. Others have seen double-digit percentage
increases and some fall in between, reflecting a thoughtful, targeted approach. If needed, we
believe we have more room for pricing later in the year. So that's what we know, but there's also
much that we cannot yet know.
Even in the current quarter, our final outcomes will depend on any changes that may be made to
trade policy, including the scope of tariffs, the countries and the products affected, timings, and
exemptions. The outcomes will also depend on macroeconomics and consumer as well as B2B
customer sentiment and behavior. And, finally, there may be geopolitical factors that will shape
demand globally.
Despite all that uncertainty, we are providing a financial outlook for the first quarter of our 2026
fiscal year. Matteo will provide the details in just a minute, but, at the midpoint, the outlook calls
for continued top-line growth supported by healthy growth and operating income margins. The
bookends of our outlook essentially contemplate what we believe are possible outcomes based
on the known unknowns I just outlined. Trade policy, consumer and enterprise sentiment, and
geopolitical factors.
All of that said, what matters beyond the headlines is that the fundamentals of our business are
strong and that we operate from an advantaged starting point. Across fiscal '26, we are going to
play offense while exercising strong cost discipline and acting with agility. Logitech was built to
compete at times like these, and that's what we plan to do in the year ahead. Matteo, over to
you.
`Matteo Anversa, Chief Financial Officer `
All right. Thank you, Hanneke, and thank you, all, for joining us on the call today. So the team
delivered another good quarter with solid demand and high gross margins of 43.5%. The
detailed financial results can be found in the press release and shareholder letter, but let me
briefly share with you the key financial highlights.
Now, the fourth quarter represented the fifth consecutive quarter of year-over-year net sales
growth. For the quarter, sell-through outpaced the sell-in by approximately two points as we
aligned our channel inventory with demand following the holiday season. Channel inventory
ended within our operating targets while owned inventory ended the quarter up approximately
$20 million quarter-over-quarter as we proactively built our inventories in advance of the tariffs
taking effect.
Now, within our product categories, keyboards and combos and pointing devices performed very
well as the high end of our product lines, the MX and ERGO, had record quarter sales in the
quarter. Webcams delivered mid-single-digit net sales growth, and end-user demand remainedSo, for the full fiscal year of 2025, total net sales increased by 7% in line with the outlook that we
provided at our third quarter earnings call and during the Investor Day in March. Our top-line
growth year-over-year was broad-based across all regions and across our key product lines with
the exception of webcams. However, webcams finished the year with strong momentum, and we
remained the market leader in this key category.
Our growth continues to be extremely profitable with non-GAAP gross margin rate of 43.5% for
the full year of 2025. So, for the fiscal year of 2025, non-GAAP gross margin rate increased by
170 basis points compared to the prior year thanks to a reduction in our product cost, partially
offset by higher promotions and the negative impact of foreign exchange.
Operating expenses were approximately $1.2 billion for the year, corresponding to 26.5% of net
sales. Now this amount includes approximately $23 million of bad debt reserve recorded in sales
and marketing expense due to the inability of our e-commerce payment provider, Digital River, to
pay us. Now, of this amount, $40 million was recorded in third quarter, and the balance was
recorded in the fourth quarter. So if we exclude the impact of this charge, our operating
expenses as a percentage of net sales would have been 26%. So for fiscal year '25, non-GAAP
operating income was $775 million or 17% of net sales, up 70 basis points compared to the prior
year as a result of the gross margin expansion that I just mentioned.
Our cash generation continued to be extremely strong. We generated approximately $840
million of cash from operation, more than 1x the operating income, of which approximately $800
million was returned to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases. Our cash
balance at the end of the year was $1.5 billion. I would like to congratulate the entire Logitech
team for an outstanding fiscal year in 2025. We returned to high-single-digit profitable growth,
generated strong cash flow, and, in the absence of M&A, we returned the cash that we
generated back to our shareholders.
Now, looking ahead to fiscal year 2026, we are not immune to the tariff uncertainty and the
overall volatility in the current macroeconomic environment. Our ability to provide a long-term
outlook is predicated upon a modicum of stability within the broader economy, and, without this
stability, it is virtually impossible to provide an outlook that looks beyond the next quarter. Hence
why we withdrew our outlook for the fiscal year ahead.
So, today, we are providing a financial outlook for the first quarter of our fiscal 2026 year. Net
sales in the quarter are expected to be between flat to plus 5% in constant currency compared
to the prior year. Gross margins will be between 41% and 42%, and non-GAAP operating income
between $155 million and $185 million.
Now, in the first quarter, the negative impact of the current tariffs on our global gross margin
rates will be approximately 200 basis points. This impact is mitigated in the first quarter by the
fact that we are still selling through the inventory that entered the United States before April.
Otherwise, we estimate the impact would be approximately 500 basis points at a company level.
The range of our outlook incorporates different outcomes on the variables that are currently
unknown, such as the consumer and the enterprise sentiment, and the timing of the price
realization in a quarter. So, for sure, the environment is challenging, but, as Hanneke pointed out,
Logitech is built for this.
So, with that, I think we can turn over to Q&A.
Questions And AnswersOperator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you, Matteo. As mentioned, we will now move into the Q&A session. Please use the Raise
Hand icon located on your Zoom toolbar to indicate that you have a question and want to call on
your name. Please turn on your video and unmute yourselves. Our first question will come from
`Asiya Merchant, Citi with Citi. Asya?
Q - `Asiya Merchant, Citi `
Oh. Great. Thank you, everyone. Just if I can double-click a little bit, Matteo, on the gross margins,
how we should think about that. You're talking about some impacts here. And with respect to the
pricing that's gone through, is that reflected in your June quarter guide or on the topline as well?
If you can just kind of parse out the impact on the topline from the price increases, and then how
we should think about gross margins given the tariff impacts that you just highlighted. Thank you.
A - `Matteo Anversa, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure, Asiya. Sure. Thank you for your question. So, the way I would describe the gross margin
rate, so we are going from about 43.5%, roughly in the first quarter of last year, to about 41.5%.
As I mentioned in the prepared remarks, about 200 basis points negative impact comes from the
tariffs. And this obviously factors in the fact that we are still consuming the inventory that came in
before the tariff took place. We have about another 100 basis points of impact coming from the
fact that last year, in the first quarter, if you recall, we were still releasing some previously
recorded inventory reserve as the inventory was coming down. And we are not expecting this to
happen again in the current quarter.
So, this negative impact of about 300 basis points, when you combine both factors, are partially
offset by about 100 basis points of positive income coming from price. So, if you look at the price,
as Hanneke mentioned, we don't like necessarily to raise price, but we have to. And this is really
focused on the U.S. We did a very meticulous approach, we looked at SKU by SKU, and some
products are -- the price didn't change, others increased double digit, and we have a bunch of
products in the middle. But when you normalize and factor all of this in, that's about 10% of price
increase on our U.S. product. And keep in mind that it's great to be a Swiss and global company
today, and only about a third of our revenue is coming in the United States. So that's how you
unpack the numbers.
Q - `Asiya Merchant, Citi `
Thank you. And any early indications on how customers are reacting to these price increases? I
guess they go in in April. So, I don't know if you have any early indications on that.
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. It's too early really to say. We started implementation from mid-April. It always takes a little
while for these prices to be reflected on shelves across the country and online. So, really too
early to say, but we do believe from previous price increases around the world that our strong
brand and our superior products will protect us to a large extent. Sometimes there's a bit of an
impact in the short term. We will see.
Q - `Asiya Merchant, Citi `A - `Matteo Anversa, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Erik from Morgan Stanley. Erik?
Q - `Erik Woodring, Morgan Stanley `
Hey, guys, good afternoon. Thank you for taking my questions here. Two, if I may. One, and really
we're in a pretty unprecedented period here. So, Hanneke, I kind of completely understand
where you're going with your comments on kind of global production, 40% of global production
or of U.S. production comes from China. Today, the goal is to get by 10% by the end of calendar
'25. I'm just wondering what that means for your Suzhou facility.
Does that just mean that you're shifting most production of Suzhou to international markets, or
are you downsizing that facility? And really the question comes from historically, this has kind of
been an area of strength for Logitech. You get IP production, you get flexibility to respond to
demand. So, just curious kind of what this means for Suzhou. And, again, how we should be
thinking about then where your U.S. product will then come from if it's not China. And then a quick
follow-up, please. Thanks.
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Sure. Thanks, Erik. Great to see you. I'm not worried about Suzhou because, again, if you do
the math, 70% of our sales are not for the United States, and already only 40% of what does go
to the United States is in China. And that will go to 10% [ph]. So it's actually a relatively small part.
And, of course, Suzhou will continue to play a very large role in terms of production for the rest of
the world.
So, Suzhou is nice and full. The fact that we just had such a great year with 7% topline growth
obviously also helps to fill Suzhou. So, no worries there.
Where does that U.S. volume go? We're in the fortunate position that we have invested in a really
diversified manufacturing footprint. We're China plus five other countries today. So, while I won't
say it's easy to shift volume, our team is doing a fantastic job at shifting volume fast to mitigate
tariff impacts.
Q - `Erik Woodring, Morgan Stanley `
Okay. I appreciate that. Thank you. Thank you, Hanneke. And then I realized that Asiya's question
was maybe about how customers have responded to pricing increases. Maybe I'll ask it different
ways, just how is spending linearity tracked kind of quarter-to-date, whether that's versus past
June quarters or past April's or even relative to the month of March and really just trying to get at
pull-forward versus push-out of demand. How are you seeing customers respond to just general
tariff and policy volatility with their wallets, whether that's an enterprise, an SMB, or a consumer?
Just how is the customer responding over this last month of chaos relative to either the past
years or last quarter? Thanks so much, guys.
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Yes. Let me have a stab at that. So, on the consumer side of our business, I'd say the
consumer remains very resilient for our products. So, in the last quarter, so in the March quarter,there was low-single-digit market growth in the Americas and in Europe in our categories and
high double digits in APAC. And consumer demand for our strides [ph] was also was strong, as
you see in our numbers. We also grew share across regions.
So, in the March quarter, things were looking really good.
And, on the consumer side, again, in North America, in the last four weeks, we're kind of seeing a
range of behaviors. There's certainly -- you see it on TikTok, this kind of no-buy movement. So,
there's some people who are really starting to be frugal. There is also a significant amount of
consumers who are pulling purchases forward. And then there's also a segment, I would call it
YOLO, You Only Live Once, I'm going to spend it all right now, and I'm going to spend it on
expensive stuff. So, the truth is probably somewhere in the middle. But, again, I would say that
some of that is that the consumer for our brand and our products remains pretty good around
the world.
On the B2B side, in the last quarter, we did see a bit more caution, especially in Europe, driven by
the uncertainty in the market. And I think most companies are just a little more hesitant to pull the
trigger on big purchases, big CapEx investments. That said, global demand, even on Logitech for
Business, was still comfortably positive, mid-single digit up. So, we're optimistic. And, of course,
video conferencing in and of itself is kind of a natural hedge. As companies say, I want to reduce
T&E, I want to reduce travel. You need great video conferencing to offset that.
Q - `Erik Woodring, Morgan Stanley `
Thanks so much, guys. Good luck.
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Matteo Anversa, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Erik.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Samik Chatterjee, J.P. Morgan with J.P. Morgan.
Q - `Samik Chatterjee, J.P. Morgan `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question, and hope you can hear me. Maybe just following up on Erik's
question on the demand side, another way, which is you did have sell-in track better than sell-
through in the quarter by 200 basis points. And, from what I remember, the expectation was in
fiscal '25, you had an inventory build in the first half and you were expecting some moderation in
that inventory in the second half. So, did that run a bit counter to what you were expecting in the
quarter in relation to sort of price increases? Did you see the channel actually pull forward some
demand into the quarter? And what are you expecting as you go through more of the first
quarter of the June quarter? Thank you.
A - `Matteo Anversa, Chief Financial Officer `
Samik, actually, the sell-through outpaced the sell-in in the fourth quarter. So, it's the other way
around, which is actually what really we were expecting, which is pretty normal coming out from
the holiday quarter. And, to Hanneke's point earlier, we're very happy with where the channel is,with the channel end of the year. Obviously, our own inventory was a little higher because we
took the proactive steps to bring in some products before the tariffs.
But, overall, we should not see the same dynamic that we saw in the beginning of fiscal year '25,
where the channel was too low and we had to sell in, outpace, and sell through for the first few
months. Our plan is to have sell in, mirror the sell-through in the upcoming quarters, thanks to the
work that the team has done in making sure that we had a healthy channel and in the fiscal year.
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. And just to reemphasize that. So, what we said all along from a year ago is that in the first
half, sell-in would be greater than sell-out. And in the second half, sell-out will be greater than
sell-in. That's exactly what play out -- played out. And that's why you see that, for the year as a
whole, the fiscal, net sales and sell-out are pretty much in the same space. The sell-out data is
never perfect, but it's very close enough for government work.
Q - `Samik Chatterjee, J.P. Morgan `
Got it. Thank you. Thanks for that. I apologize. I might have read it wrong. So, maybe just moving
back to the discussion on tariffs and the first quarter sort of the fiscal year we are planning, you
have the benefit from price, but you have sort of a part headwind from the tariff. What's the end
goal here by the time you get to moving most of that capacity that's addressing the U.S.
demand? Once you get to that point, are we back to where your gross margins are in this sort of
43% range because pricing ramps up further and you have offset most of that? Or what do we
see as a residual impact? How do you think about the residual impact at that point?
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. It's really too -- there's just too many moving pieces at this point, which is why we're only
giving you an outlook for the first quarter.
What I can say -- let me give you a little bit more color on some of the variables that could change
and why we can't speculate on what the outcome may be. So, let's start from a great thing, which
is that two-thirds of our sales are outside of the U.S., so they're not affected by tariffs. That's a
good start point. But, for the one-third that's in the U.S., that portfolio of products is affected in a
number of different ways today, the tariffs themselves, the exemptions, the countries of origin,
the product classification, the way we're moving products around.
So, as I look at the business today, part of the U.S. volume is exempt, zero tariffs. Part is at 10%,
part is at 20%, and there's a small part that's today at 145-plus-percent. But, all that said, it's a
moving feast. The impact literally is changing on almost a daily basis based on trade policy
announcements, product classification, and, importantly, by our own actions as we move products
around.
So, given that it's a moving feast, rather than providing you with details on how the sausages are
being made, we're sharing the expected outcome for the first quarter with you, which is that 200
basis points of tariff impact on the global gross margin. And we're going to continue to update
you as the year unfolds, but it is too early to speculate on what might happen after.
A - `Matteo Anversa, Chief Financial Officer `
Maybe let me add something. I think it's important also to put into perspective what we control,
right? So, and some of the actions they were taking. So, Hanneke discussed about price. We alsofantastic track record. You saw what the team and Sri and the team have done in 2025. Almost
300 basis points of the margin expansion that you saw in total year came from their work. So,
that work will continue, will never stop.
And then we took some proactive approach on the OpEx side, right, particularly on G&A. So, as
you hear many companies doing around the world, we are doing the same. We are curbing all the
controllable spend. We are cutting travel. We delayed most of the hirings. And then obviously we
are pushing, and, as Hanneke mentioned earlier, the manufacturing diversification, which will take
us from the 60% to the 10% that we just discussed. So that's what you can count on us. The rest
is difficult for us to control.
Q - `Samik Chatterjee, J.P. Morgan `
Thank you. Thanks for taking the question.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Austin Baker, Loop Capital with Loop Capital. Austin?
Q - `Austin Baker, Loop Capital `
Hi. Thanks for the time. I hope everyone can hear me. I guess to peel the onion back a little bit, I
would just love to talk about kind of in an uncertain macro environment. What do you guys feel
are probably the most in these demand resilient products? And then secondly strategically, I
know you spoke about going on offense. Where would you want to spend the most focus and
the most time? What categories in that kind of weak uncertain macro environment?
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Great question. Thank you. So, indeed, as we go through the year, those three principles start
from playing offense and gaining share. So, we come out of this stronger, and we really believe
we can do that if we couple it with cost discipline, as well as agility on manufacturing and some
commercial actions. So, where do we see the most resilience? I would say, honestly, across our
portfolio.
Let me start from gaming. We learned a lot on gaming in the last few years in China, where the
economy has been soft for a while, but the gaming market has been growing at more than 20%
for a while in China. And we put in place a China for China program almost a year ago, and I'm
really pleased by the results that we're seeing on that program.
So, we know that we can win when the economy is soft. We know there's a little bit of a lipstick
effect with consumers. If you can't -- if you don't have money to go out to the movies, to go out
to eat, to go on a vacation, you are likely to game more, and you want to have the right gear to
be winning that game. So, we certainly saw that demand -- dynamic in China. So, we're really
upbeat on gaming. And I would also say, gaming had a 10%, a double-digit growth year for us in
fiscal '25. So, the momentum on gaming is also very, very strong.
And then, on the work side, people still have to work. People are still working from multiple
places, which is a real tailwind for our portfolio. If you're working from home, from the office, and
from a hotel, you need three mice, you need three keyboards, and you definitely need video
conferencing when your boss tells you can't travel anymore. So, we feel that the portfolio is really
well set up for this future.
Q - `Austin Baker, Loop Capital `Makes sense. Thank you for the time.
A - `Matteo Anversa, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Austin. Our next question comes from Michael with Vontobel. Michael?
Q - `Michael Wenger, Vontobel `
Yes. Hi. Good evening. Hello, everyone. Two questions from my side. The first one is in terms of
shifting your production footprint for U.S. products, maybe, can you comment on sort of what the
hurdles are? How has that phased through the year or maybe which products are more difficult to
move than others? And my second question would be on the logistics environment that you're
seeing right now? Are you seeing any particular spikes in freight rates, any bottlenecks, any
disruptions in terms of trade flows right now?
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I'll leave the logistics question to Matteo just now, but on the moving our manufacturing
footprint, we have invested for six or seven years now in having a much more resilient footprint.
So, the fact that we're, I would call it, China plus five today, five other countries where we make
multiple, multiple products makes it, I think, it's never easy, but it is more doable for us to move
very quickly than for many others, because to set up a new country with its supplier ecosystem,
with the labor that you need there, is not easy.
But we have done it. It's in place, which, again, our team is doing heroic work, but it's easier than
if we had to start from scratch, which is why we feel that or why we know that, by the end of the
year, again, we'll go from 40% products in the U.S. originating from China to about 10%. And
that's absolutely doable. And it's doable across most of the portfolio.
And we're always looking at individual SKUs. If there's an opportunity to simplify the portfolio, we
also will always do that. But I'm not worried about specific parts of the portfolio that cannot be
moved.
A - `Matteo Anversa, Chief Financial Officer `
Michael, on the freight, we have not seen yet, at least so far in the quarter, major changes on the
pricing. I would say, if I look at the lanes, maybe a few, a little bit cheaper price on the European,
the Asian to Europe lane. But the one from Asia to the U.S., I have not seen any, still a little bit up
year-over-year, when you compare the first quarter of '26 versus first quarter of '25. It's probably
reasonable to expect that based on what we read on the news that rates may come down, but
we haven't seen it yet.
Q - `Michael Wenger, Vontobel `
Okay. Thank you. Good luck.
A - `Matteo Anversa, Chief Financial Officer `
You're welcome. Thanks, Michael.
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Michael.Operator
Our next question comes from Didier from Bank of America.
Q - `Didier Scemama, Bank of America `
Yeah. Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my question. I just have a couple. First of all, thank you
so much for all the insights, numbers that you've shared with us on the impact of tariffs. I
appreciate it must be incredibly difficult at this time to navigate this very uncertain environment.
So, really, extremely grateful. My question would be first on the September quarter.
So, you've talked about the June quarter gross margin benefiting from inventories that are
shipped into the channel prior to tariffs. Is there any lingering positive effect that we can expect in
the September quarter? And then, on the maybe December quarter, how should we think about
the impact of tariff as things stand with regard to the moving out of China impact, e.g. do your
gross margins drop a lot effectively in the September and perhaps in the December quarter
before the ramp back up? How should we think about the phasing?
A - `Matteo Anversa, Chief Financial Officer `
So, let me start with the first question. Sorry.
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. On the September quarter. I think overall, Didier, it is too early to speculate on any of that,
but I'll let Matteo answer.
A - `Matteo Anversa, Chief Financial Officer `
The inventory will be depleted. So, the positive impact of the inventory, that's why we are
planning the way we did, is specific for the first quarter, and that will be gone after the first
quarter. So, I think it's fair to say. The second part of your question, quite frankly, as Hanneke said,
a little premature for us to comment.
Q - `Didier Scemama, Bank of America `
Thank you so much for that. Just want to double-check one thing. I think the answer is yes. Just
want to make sure. The 90-day pause that we saw on the headlines on smartphone and PCs,
they do include PC peripherals, as far as you understand.
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So all the numbers that we've given you for Q1 take into account tariffs as they stand today,
which includes the 90-day pause. So, where I said, we have part of the portfolio for the U.S.
That's at 0%. We have a part at 10%, a part at 20%, and a part at 145-plus-percent at the
moment. So, the answer is yes.
Q - `Didier Scemama, Bank of America `
Super. Brilliant. Thanks very much.
A - `Matteo Anversa, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.Operator
Our next question comes from George with Barclays. George?
Q - `George Wang, Barclays `
Hey, guys. And thanks for taking my question. Two quick ones. So, firstly, just maybe you can
elaborate on this 500 basis points impact on the gross margin without any more selling through
the inventory pre-tariff. Just curious if we should assume no price hike on existing products for
your base case to calculate this 500 basis point, because to me it seems a little bit high in terms
of the impact. Just curious if you can give a bit more color, assumptions behind it.
A - `Matteo Anversa, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. So, George, the 500 basis points, let me unpack it for you, includes the impact of the tariffs
as they stand today and the impact of the manufacturing diversification actions as they stand
today. It does not include the price -- the impact of the price actions, right? So that's where we
will have to see, obviously, how the consumer and the enterprise customer will behave and really
our ability to realize the price increases that we communicated in mid-April. So, 500 basis points
is just the impact of the tariffs, net of the manufacturing actions.
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. And, again, we have taken pricing now, and Matteo outlined that's, so in the first quarter,
200 basis points of negative tariff impact and 100 basis points positive of pricing. We will see,
there might be more room for pricing, but, again, too early to speculate on what or when that
might be.
Q - `George Wang, Barclays `
Okay. Great. Just a quick follow-up to just kind of talk about items you can control in terms of
opening expense control, kind of G&A, you kind of alluded to maybe tighter control, kind of, can
you elaborate on other levers you guys can pull? Just curious if we should expect a bit more of a
tighter control just on the operating expense on G&A, kind of can pull through more crucial to the
EPS line.
A - `Matteo Anversa, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure, George. So, I think it goes beyond OxEx, it's really control around cost, so it's both the
product, so back to some of the things that we discussed at Investor Day, all the activities of
value engineering, supplier cost reduction, so that will continue. And we have a very good track
record, as you've seen in the numbers that we published today, even in the fourth quarter of
2025.
Then, specifically on the operating expenses, we're going to be laser-focused. We're going to
primarily focus our actions on G&A. We will continue, obviously, to fund the investment in product
development and sales and marketing, back to the principles that Hanneke mentioned at the
beginning of the call. And, on G&A, we are really working on a couple of buckets. We are curbing
all the controllable expenses, such as the contractors, outside services, consulting, cutting T&E,
and delaying most of the hires. And that's kind of the actions that we're taking.
Q - `George Wang, Barclays `A - `Matteo Anversa, Chief Financial Officer `
You bet.
Operator
That was our last question for the raised hands. We do have some submitted questions from
Joern with UBS. Joern is having some audio issues, so I'll just read those out loud, if that's okay.
One of the questions was, sell-through in EMEA slowed down materially, and why is this
happening?
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Happy to talk about Europe. The first thing I'll say about Europe is that they had a great fiscal
year '25. 9% constant-currency sales growth is just testament to fabulous execution by our team
in Europe. And that's growing well ahead of the European market for the year. Q4 was a little
slower. And that's -- there are a couple reasons. Inventory adjustments in Europe, we were
probably most assertive in terms of making sure we had a great holiday season, which we did
have.
But we were assertive on bringing in inventory and in the last quarter, we were responsible at
bringing that back down. But, like in other regions, we're seeing a resilient consumer in Europe.
Maybe a little bit of caution again, same as the global dynamic amongst B2B customers that was
exacerbated by the German elections that also fell into quarter, just a little bit of caution there.
But we definitely are confident that that business will return to growth.
Operator
Okay. One more question here. What is the price versus volume assumption for Q1 '26?
A - `Matteo Anversa, Chief Financial Officer `
We have about 100 basis points on the gross margin coming in, thanks to price. So, I let you do
the math, but that's the assumption that we have in the first quarter.
Operator
Thank you. And this would be our final question. How can you organize the supply chain so quickly
that only 10% of U.S. sales will come from China end of the year?
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, again, this company was built to compete at a time like this. I cannot say it often enough.
We have a global, very broad global sales footprint. So, only 30% of our volume is U.S., but that
U.S. volume, which is obviously really important to us, we've been preparing since 2019 to be
super resilient on that. So, we have China plus five manufacturing countries in place and ready to
go and producing for us today, which is a huge competitive advantage and is allowing us to move
much faster than most.
Operator
That was our final question. Thank you.
A - `Hanneke Faber, Chief Executive Officer `Thank you so much. Thanks, everyone. Thanks for bearing with us at this fun time. We really
appreciate you joining us.
I just want to summarize to say that our teams had an outstanding 2025 fiscal year. So, thank you
to our teams. And, looking ahead, I am excited about the opportunity that's before us. We are
going to play offense. We're going to assertively manage costs. We're going to be super, super
agile. And we look forward to speaking with you next quarter. Take care, everyone.