Q4 2016 Earnings Call

Operator
Good morning, and welcome to the Bio-Techne Earnings Conference Call for the Fourth Quarter
of Fiscal Year 2016. At this time, all participants have been placed in listen-only mode, and the call
will be open for questions following management's prepared remarks.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Jim Hippel, Bio-Techne's Chief Financial Officer. Please
go ahead.
James T. Hippel `
Good morning, and thank you for joining us. On the call with me this morning is Chuck Kummeth,
Chief Executive Officer of Bio-Techne.
Before we begin, let me briefly cover our Safe Harbor statement. Some of the comments made
during this conference call may be considered forward-looking statements, including beliefs and
expectations about the company's future results. The company's 10-K for fiscal year 2015
identifies certain factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from
those projected in the forward-looking statements made during this call.
The company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result of any
new information or future events or developments. The 10-K, as well as the company's other SEC
filings, are available on the company's website within its Investor Relations section.
During the call, non-GAAP financial measures may be used to provide information pertinent to
ongoing business performance. Tables reconciling these measures to most comparable GAAP
measures are available in the company's press release issued earlier this morning on the Bio-
Techne Corporation website at www.bio-techne.com.
And with that, I'll turn the call over to Chuck.
Charles R. Kummeth `
Thanks, Jim, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us for our fourth quarter
conference call. As you saw in our press release this morning, we ended the year on a strong
note and I'm very pleased with our fourth quarter results as well as the execution of our strategic
plan all year.The company delivered 10% organic growth in the quarter and achieved 6% growth organically
for all of fiscal year 2016. This is a nice improvement over the 4% organic growth we had last year.
In each of the past three years, we have improved organic growth each year.
The Biotech division had a great year with 6% organic growth and nice momentum at the finish
with 8% organic growth in Q4. Margins remained strong in the low 50%s due to leverage with
scale on a strong year for productivity programs, which largely paid for our investments to drive
growth.
Europe had a solid year with mid-single digit organic growth, the only issues we had with Europe
happened in the final week with currency due to Brexit. Germany continues with a strong market,
especially our biopharma customers. The UK finished the year with 6% growth and we see no
changes to any of this momentum in the near term.
Our team has now expanded under new European leadership and we have four subsidiaries in
the UK, Germany, Scandinavia, Switzerland and Italy, with good local distributors forming in the
Middle East, Spain and Eastern Europe. Europe now represents 22% of the total company's
revenues and nearly 30% of the Biotech division.
In the APAC region, we have had double-digit growth for three years in a row, with China again
leading the way with 20% organic growth in fiscal 2016. Also unfortunately, once again Japan had
a poor year due to research funding being delayed from government bureaucracy. With the
addition of strong new leadership in our APAC region, we have made further investments into
building our businesses in countries outside of Japan and China. We now have great partners in
Korea, Australia, India and Singapore. Our head count and critical mass continues to increase, with
this region now representing 4% of our global sales in the Biotech division.
Back in the U.S. where we achieved high-single digit growth for the year in the Biotech division,
we believe the biggest contributor to growth has been our new website. Last summer, we
launched the complete overhaul of our main R&D systems website complete with 30-plus active
pathways that are interactive with researchers to allow them to select the reagents they are
looking for to advance their science.
Thousands of products can be selected from our website. Search engine optimization, known as
SEO, has also greatly improved its speed to order. We have double-digit increases in traffic and
purchases. This key difference, combined with our partnership with Fisher, has allowed us to
return to solid growth in the academic sector of the market. Our Pharma and Biotech business
remained strong, largely driven by the web experience.
Another large contributor to growth is new product vitality. Last year, I spoke about our increased
vitality in the Biotech division, with the first year sales nearing $6 million. This year, we exceeded
this number dramatically and topped $12 million in sales of products sold in the first year. This is
just our reagents. It does not include our instruments, which adds significantly to the overall
number. This is an improvement of 500% from three years ago. Innovation is the lifeblood of a
science company and we strive to deliver to our goals of 10% vitality in hundreds of patents.
Speaking of instruments, Protein Platform division had a good year with 14% organic growth.
We've spent the first half of the fiscal year redesigning the marketing and commercial approach
for the business. As a result of these changes, ProteinSimple experienced 25%-plus organic
growth in the two final quarters of the fiscal year. We still feel strong that this business will
become a $200 million business built on three important platforms: Western Blot, Biologics and
the Simple Plex multiplex platforms. All three, you're seeing double-digit growth as they haveLastly, the Chemical Controls division achieved over $100 million in revenue in fiscal 2016. Margins
remained strong at around 30%, and the integration of four businesses into a cohesive division
that can leverage each other with OEM customers is working. Cliniqa, our latest acquisition for this
division had an incredible year with double-digit growth. This division makes us number one in this
market, and we have solutions for virtually every installation in this (05:29) space.
Our next expansion in this division is in core diagnostics applications, which can be leveraged with
our leading content portfolio. Following the acquisition of Cliniqa and the integration of our
BiosPacific business into this segment in early 2016, diagnostic immunoassays as well as bulk and
customer reagent for the diagnostics industry have become increasingly more important revenue
stream in this segment. Thus beginning in fiscal year 2017, our Clinical Controls segment will be
referred to as the Diagnostics division. Given the broader focus on diagnostics products other
than controls and calibrators, we believe Diagnostics division more accurately captures the future
direction of this segment.
As I mentioned in my opening remarks, fiscal year 2016 was a strong year and is executing our
strategic plan and our best year in three years for growth, especially organic growth. With nearly
$500 million in revenue puts us halfway to our strategic target of $1 billion. It will take a
combination of more acquisitions as well as strong organic growth to reach this goal, but we do
see a vision on how to get there. The team has never been more energized and our results this
year have invigorated the entire company.
As in the past three years, much of our strategic plan is based on acquisitions. And we did
complete Zephyrus in March and Advanced Cell Diagnostics, or ACD, in August. Both are strong
additions to the portfolio. Zephyrus is an instrument company, which has just launched a new
platform branded as Milo that performs single-cell Western blot. It is based on a single-cell
electrophoresis process so it fits perfectly into the ProteinSimple line of instruments.
Our latest acquisition, which closed just a couple of weeks ago, is ACD. ACD marks Bio-Techne's
entry into the genomics field and market. Second and more importantly, its innovative and
versatile technology have the potential to change pathology practices.
RNA-ISH is a transformative technology facilitating and improving the monitoring of gene
expression patterns at the single-cell level, while retaining the morphological context of the tissue
being analyzed. ACD's technology serves both research and diagnostics markets, expanding Bio-
Techne's presence in the clinical lab setting. These last two acquisitions take our total to nine in
the past three years, since this team has come together as Bio-Techne. All but ACD are nearly
fully integrated and we are proud of the way the employees from all the sites have worked
together to build a new and exciting innovative culture here.
Commercial synergies are our priority and we now have a sales force that has expertise in both
instruments and consumables, which together provide our customers with world-class solutions
and science. Progress has also been exceptional with our CyVek, PrimeGene and Novus
acquisitions. Novus has had a stellar year, with growth now running at near 10%. CyVek, or Simple
Plex as it's now called, is scaling as a business, coming off some key peer-reviewed papers just
released. We still see huge potential of this business. Roche, as an example, is using this
technology in three clinical studies and has offered support for technology by hosting webinars
with our staff.
PrimeGene completed a new state-of-the-art factory in Shanghai dedicated to the development
and production of GMP proteins. With the help of PrimeGene, our China for China business has
experienced strong double-digit growth. Following the ACD acquisition, our pipeline of potentialM&A targets remains strong. And importantly, our strong balance sheet and cash flow leaves
plenty of dry powder for the ongoing execution of our disciplined M&A strategy. We plan to
continue to augment our organic business with acquisitions that strengthen our position in
existing businesses and geographies or leverage our reagent expertise in adjacent markets.
In closing, our leadership team has spent a lot of time this year reviewing and thinking about our
strategy and strategic plan. We are three years into the five-year plan we initiated in 2014 and we
have stayed very true through the course of it. Nine acquisitions later, 230% growth in head
count, 22 sites versus seven, 100 people in China instead of 12, a subsidiary model with three well
designed divisions in three regions are all a testament to the significant progress we have made.
And the growth isn't bad either, the $304 million in revenue in 2013 versus nearly $500 million this
year in 2016.
This is all great, but we want to become $1 billion-plus business with continued strong profitability.
Towards this goal, our strategic plan pillars have remained the same: enable and sponsor
innovation in the core product lines, geographic expansion, commercial execution, operational
excellence and talent recruitment and retention. We have tactical plans for all of these strategies
and the resources and the people to achieve them. I'm very proud of our teams and the
progress to-date. The company is coming to a true inflection point of growth as we integrate the
strategic acquisitions to-date, as well as improve internal operations for growth. Fiscal 2017 will be
a great year.
And I look forward to having our leadership team share more details about our strategic plan at
our inaugural Bio-Techne Investor Day in New York City on September 15. Hope to see you all
there.
With that, I'll pass the call over to Jim for a more detailed review of the fourth quarter financials
before we open the line for Q&A. Jim?
James T. Hippel `
Thank you, Chuck. As on our prior earnings calls, I will provide an overview of our Q4 financial
performance for the total company, and then provide some color on each of our three segments.
Starting with the overall fourth quarter financial performance, adjusted earnings increased 3%
year-over-year to $34.5 million, while adjusted EPS was $0.92 a share versus $0.90 in the prior
year. The impact of foreign exchange fluctuations represented a large headwind to EPS,
approximately $0.06. The more pronounced foreign exchange impact to our adjust EPS results is
due primarily to the British pound volatility related to the Brexit outcome at the end of the
quarter. As a reminder, our European headquarters is in the UK, making the British pound our
functional currency in Europe, which unfavorably impacted our European transactional assets in
the quarter.
GAAP EPS for the quarter was $0.69 compared to the $0.71 in the prior year. Q4 reported
revenue was $134.8 million, an increase of 15% year-over-year with organic revenue increasing
10%. Fourth quarter reported sales include a 6% growth contribution from acquisitions, partially
offset by a 1% unfavorable foreign exchange headwind.
Moving on to the details of the P&L. Total company adjusted gross margin was 70.1% in Q4,
decreasing 70 basis points from the prior year. Strong volume leverage and productivity gains
were more than offset by the lower margin Cliniqa acquisition and an unfavorable FX impact.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions and FX, core gross margins improved 70 basis points year-
over-year in the fourth quarter.Adjusted SG&A in Q4 was 22.5% of revenue, 160 basis points higher than last year. The SG&A
increase was driven by the acquisitions made since the beginning of the fourth quarter of last
year, investments made in China and Chinese corporate related expenses.
R&D expenses in Q4 was 8.6% of revenue, 60 basis points lower than last year, reflecting the
volume leverage achieved from our Protein Platforms and Biotech divisions. The resulting
adjusted operating margin for Q4 was 39.1%, a decrease of 170 basis points in the prior period.
Looking at our numbers below operating income, net interest expense in Q4 was $0.4 million
compared to $0.3 million of net interest expense last year due to higher draws on our line of
credit, which partially funded our Cliniqa acquisition last July. Other non-operating expense for the
quarter was $1.9 million compared to $0.9 million of non-operating income in the prior year
quarter, with unfavorable transactional FX explaining the year-over-year variance.
Our adjusted effective tax rate in Q4 was 31.6%, an increase of 40 basis points in the fourth
quarter of last year due to a greater percentage of taxable income being generated in the U.S.,
driven in part by the Cliniqa acquisition. In terms of returning capital, we continue to pay our
dividend and paid out $11.9 million in the quarter. Average diluted shares were relatively flat over
the year-ago period at 37.4 million shares outstanding.
Turning to cash flow and the balance sheet. $36.3 million of cash was generated from operations
in the fourth quarter, and our investment in capital expenditures was $3 million. We ended the
quarter with $95.8 million of cash and short-term available for sale investments. Our long-term
debt obligations at the end of Q4 stood at $126.5 million, a decrease of $31.3 million from the
end of Q3. Going forward, our capital deployment priorities remain opportunistic M&A or
dividend and debt pay-down.
Now I'll discuss the performance of our three business segments, starting with the Biotechnology
segment. Q4 reported sales were $84.4 million with organic growth of 8%. Foreign exchange
negatively impacted reported results growth by approximately 1%. By geography, the U.S. grew in
the high-single digits, with upper single-digit biopharma sales growth and mid-single digit
academia results.
Europe increased approximately 10% organically with biopharma and academia sales in this
region growing in line with the overall geography. As we discussed in the third quarter earnings
call, timing of the Easter holiday impacted our European results, representing a favorable 5%
impact to growth in this geography.
China experienced organic growth in the mid-teens during the fourth quarter and delivered 20%
organic revenue growth for the fiscal year 2016. Excluding Japan and China, the rest of APAC
grew 20% organically in the fourth quarter. Japan continued to be a drag on growth given the
challenging government funding conditions there.
Adjusted operating income for the Biotech segment increased 5% in Q4 compared to the prior
year and adjusted operating margin was 52.4%, a decrease of 100 basis points year-over-year
due to timing of website enhancements and certain commercial investments, particularly in China,
partially offset by volume leverage and productivity initiatives. As we look ahead to fiscal year
2017, our latest acquisition, Advanced Cell Diagnostics, or ACD, will be included in our
Biotechnology segment beginning the first quarter.
Turning now to Clinical Controls. Segment sales in Q4 were $28.5 million, with reported growth of
33% over last year. The acquisition of Cliniqa contributed 30% to growth while organic revenue
increased 3%. Strong growth in the Hematology Controls business was partially offset by thetimings of new OEM projects in our blood glucose business. Separately, beginning Q1 of fiscal
year 2017, we have annualized the Cliniqa acquisition and this business would be included in our
organic growth going forward.
Clinical Controls adjusted operating income increased 36% in Q4 and adjusted operating margin
was 31.4%, an increase of 80 basis points from the prior year. The higher adjusted operating
margin was primarily attributable to productivity initiative, partially offset by the mix of a lower
margin Cliniqa acquisition.
Moving on to our Protein Platforms segment, net sales in Q4 were $22 million, an organic increase
of 29% from the prior year period, with unfavorable currency translation impacting revenues by
approximately 1%. Growth for this segment was broad based, with most major regions and
product lines growing by solid double digits and also include a stable contribution from the first
full quarter of sales from our next generation iCE instrument, Maurice.
Adjusted operating income in Q4 for the Protein Platforms segment was $1.6 million, representing
operating margin of 7.5% compared to approximately breakeven operating income one year ago.
Strong volume leverage drove the year-over-year improvement, partially offset by the operating
costs associated with the Zephyrus acquisition.
We continue to expect additional improvement in Protein Platforms' profitability as top line
growth and productivity gains drive operating leverage next year and beyond. In summary, Q4
was a strong quarter for Bio-Techne, with solid commercial and operational executions driving the
best organic growth performance in many years. This capped up a solid full year with 6% organic
growth in fiscal year 2016.
Looking ahead of fiscal year 2017, we expect overall company organic growth to be similar.
Additionally, the acquisitions made in fiscal year 2016 and with past July should add another $35
million of revenue to the top line in fiscal year 2017.
Foreign exchange, however, will continue to be a revenue headwind of approximately 1% if rates
stay where they're at today. We are very pleased to include ACD and the other recent
acquisitions in our upcoming fiscal year results. Although I would advise that collectively, these
businesses are currently projected to be dilutive to our operating income in the coming year.
Overall, we anticipate adjusted total company operating margin for fiscal 2017 to be in the mid-
30%s, with this metric improving throughout the year as we realize volume leverage from the
acquisition. I'd also like to remind everyone that Bio-Techne assumed an additional $250 million in
debt to fund the ACD acquisition. With the associated interest expense expected to also impact
our bottom line results for the year.
That concludes my prepared comments. And with that, I'll turn the call back over to Rochelle
to open the line for some questions.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. And our first question we'll hear from Amanda Murphy with William Blair.
Q - `Amanda L. Murphy, William Blair & Co. LLC `
Hi, good morning.A - Charles R. Kummeth `
Hi, Amanda.
Q - `Amanda L. Murphy, William Blair & Co. LLC `
I just have two actually. One is on ProteinSimple. So obviously, that business line in general has
been doing quite well and you had mentioned a few quarters ago that you had some sales force
turnover. I just was wondering if you could give a little more context around how you guys have
worked to turn that business around in quite a rapid fashion, just looking for a little more context
on performance there.
A - Charles R. Kummeth `
Sure, Amanda. Well, we were very transparent starting about a year ago and we saw some
growth rates pretty slipping dramatically. When you do an acquisition in Silicon Valley, the common
rule of thumb is expect about a quarter of the people to kind of leave and head on to that next
lottery ticket. And we did see a lot of impact. Four of the top five in the management team
moved on and we expected that. We kept who (19:55) the key guy was, the head of R&D and
Development and he's run the business for us and he's done a great job.
The commercial team, however, was definitely a little more lacking than we thought, and we had
to make additional changes quite early. And you guys know all about that. So overall, we turned
over roughly 60% of commercial organization, including marketing, in those early first couple of
quarters, which obviously is going to take, call it, the big hit to the business in the top line.
But those changes are made, I think, very well and very soundly and with great new people, a
great new head of marketing. We've changed the whole way we go to market. We've changed
the way we address the customer. We've changed the collateral. We've changed the way we
address customers at the trade shows. And most importantly, we've done a lot of synergy work
with the Biotech division and the instruments, mainly reagents and we did this acquisition because
there's a lot of synergies with reagents of R&D Systems' branded products.
And they've been working together quite strong, quite well. Our head of our commercial
organization in North America and in Europe in the reagents side. BioTech-ne has worked closely
with the organization there in Protein Platforms, and that also has paid off in spades. We actually
have a new organization to work together on leads, drive the leads both reagents side and the
hardware side. And so we get new customers from both sides of it, which is working, which we
thought it would work. I guess that's really what we can say right now. The marketing looks solid.
Our lead generation is up dramatically over a year ago, and we're making progress.
Now, we were 25% last quarter, 29% this quarter; also the first two quarters last year about flat or
negative. We're not going to sit here and say we're going to be 30%-plus going forward, but I do
think double-digit growth going forward is what we've been telling people and we expect that.
And if we don't get that, we'll make more changes.
And it's not a one-trick pony anymore. It's not just the Western blot platform, as we mentioned.
We've got three solid platforms in this division, all driving growth, all working at double digit
growth right now. So that provides more safety as well. It should get near to $100 million business
this year. And we hope – as we mentioned, we think it's got legs to get to $100 million or higher
this year position in Western blot and below (22:12) is still in the low single-digits here so we've
got a lot of room.And the Biologics side is a nice surprise. It's growing. It's also a decent market. And there are new
applications coming out all the time, new papers coming out. We've been very thrilled with the
acceptance we've seen and we're hoping we're actually crossing an inflection point with the
continuous strong growth we're seeing but we'll see.
Q - `Amanda L. Murphy, William Blair & Co. LLC `
And I think you've said in the past that you think you can get to roughly $750 million revenue with
the businesses you have now incorporating synergies. Is that still a fair assessment?
A - Charles R. Kummeth `
I think with ACD in the mix, that's probably a decent number. We were saying more like $650
million, $700 million with all the currency hits before that but it's in that range. We cannot get to $1
billion without further acquisitions, but I think if you run the math, you run the models, you run our
growth rate at 8% or so growth going forward, we should be close to that. We also want to keep
these margins strong as well, so it pulls together.
Q - `Amanda L. Murphy, William Blair & Co. LLC `
Yeah, that was going to be my next question on the margin side. So obviously, you've had some
underlying margin expansion but then offset by currency and transaction, so maybe just give a
little perspective on what you're doing just from an underlying perspective. And then when you
think about margin, I think you've been pretty disciplined about the platforms you're bringing
online and where they fit from a margin perspective in your business, but just kind of remind us
what your target margins might look like?
A - Charles R. Kummeth `
Yeah. Well, no one was more disappointed than us, just seeing the last week of the quarter, the
Brexit hit and the toll we took with that, because we're a UK-based and we were (23:52) U.S.-
based business here. So it is what it is there. We'll dig out of that pretty quickly, we think. Last
quarter, we beat pretty soundly at 42.5% op margins. This quarter, we're closer to plan at 39% or
at around that range. And as Jim mentioned, with the dilution that's coming here with ACD and
then Zephyrus and what we're doing, mid-30%s is a safe number and we'll be clawing back to
that 40% with productivity, with synergies and then doing what we've done already a couple of
times. We've been in this high 30%s before and clawed our way back to 40%, and we've
mentioned that and we'll drive that.
So productivity is going to be key. We will not overinvest. We're going to try to invest in systems
and people and things that create synergies and can create value. And we've got a pretty good
team with a lot of experience from a lot of big companies that know how to do this. And we
actually have more opportunities, more things to prioritize than we can even do. So the list of
things we'd like to do is a pretty long list.
So you've mentioned, we're disciplined, we think, we are very disciplined and we understand how
important it is to keep the margin and focus. And I think we've done a really good job with that
the last two years in doing that, so.
Q - `Amanda L. Murphy, William Blair & Co. LLC `
So are you thinking you can be back to 40% within, that's coming out of next year?That's hard to say. I doubt it. ACD was in the press release, we bought them, the trailing 12
months, they're over a 50% grower. If they can keep that going, then who knows, it's a business
kind of like our business. They make reagents, put them in little tubes, stick them in a box, and
some with kits with very, very high gross margins. We like that kind of business. And if that growth
rate continues, it's going to claw into profitability range very quickly. And then we have not
discussed where the synergy is commercially. We did invest in it as a company commercially and
that's why they're at where they're at and we have to wait out an 18-month – they're not (25:46)
but there is a lot of synergies. For sure China and Europe, they're a little (25:51) leverage the
reach we have. So we'll see how fast they can dig into the land of profitability. But to say that
they're going to give us 3 points, 4 points, 5 points of margins for the company, that's probably a
reach. But we'll see.
Q - `Amanda L. Murphy, William Blair & Co. LLC `
Okay. Thanks very much.
Operator
And next we'll move to Catherine Ramsey with Robert W. Baird.
Q - `Catherine W. Ramsey, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker) `
Good morning, guys. Congrats on a great quarter. You had pretty impressive growth in the
Biotechnology segment over the last few quarters. What do you think has been the biggest
factor in that and how sustainable is the mid- to high-single digit piece going forward?
A - Charles R. Kummeth `
Well, if you back up a year or two, we talked about when we annualized these acquisitions that
we're strong growers, we should be in that 8% to 12% range, which is a pretty big band, I
understand that. And then we're kind of there now and it really comes down to – if ProteinSimple
stays in that 20% region or better, we're going to be – should be better. The better question is
why is Biotech division doing so well? And it's continued to do well five to six quarters in a row. We
had an 8% quarter. This is really sound. And it's just not one reason to think on to that. The
website has been an amazing success. Academia, which is still a big portion of our business, it's
something like $800,000 that we report to and I believe that our average order size, remember
it's still like $900 or something like that.
So you have to deal with this model growth through the web. You can't touch all these people
with sales. You have to have a model that has a really nice quick sharp type web engine and the
SEO engines and then delivery mechanism and we overhauled ours and it's working well. With
more online activity and more touches in our website you get more orders, that's one piece.
Fisher started out slow last year for us but ended pretty well. Things were improving. I think they
have their own growing and bandwidth pains with absorbing Life Tech. And movement internally
with their TfRs, which we're constantly re-training now and stuff. Well, that's improving as well.
We're depending on Fisher still, I mean it's helping.
And then Biotech/Pharma has been strong and remains strong and it's even getting better. And
we're doing a lot more we'll call it custom work. We're developing – we're getting more known in
the industry and we're being approached more and more for very, very difficult assignments.
We're developing reagents, proteins, antibodies, et cetera, for these customers and being paid
an amazing nice premium for. And there's a nice re-order pathways as well. Roughly about half ofthat work is going in our catalog and so we like it. And that's why we see the 500% increase in
our vitality, to be honest.
As long as those three things will stay in place, then I think you're going to see Biotech division in
the mid-single-digit to better growth region and that's what we expect. That was the plan and
we're executing to that plan, so.
Q - `Catherine W. Ramsey, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker) `
Okay, that's helpful. And then, on your last earnings call, you mentioned starting phase one of
your ERP system in July. Any color on how that's progressing?
A - Charles R. Kummeth `
Say it again? Oh ERP. Yeah. Well, I've been involved in five of them. None of them I've ever started
flawless. We've all heard horror stories with some of our peers are really suffering. I come from a
very, very large company that actually had operations shut down for a week. We've seen none of
that, but we are definitely seeing the pain in the first month of implementing an ERP. We are
ready for it. We have temps in place. We are working through, digging it out. We expect to be
kind of in decent shape end of the quarter. And it's usual stuff. You've got backwaters filling. Why?
You dig in, you find out their orders are held up because one stock number was screwed up, it
wasn't right and it's holding up the order. We have the usual percentage of customer information
is inaccurate so it's not going out and it held up the order so you've got to claw through all that
stuff.
And we're not making airplanes here, right? So it's a complex business. There's a lot of products,
a lot of orders, a lot of SKUs, which is the lifeblood of what ERP is supposed to handle with all that
complexity. So even though we're just a $500 million business, we have the complexity of
something much larger. So overall, I'm actually pretty impressed. This is by far one of the better
ERP implementations we've done, but we've definitely got some work to do to claim victory and
say we're really humming along here like we are, say, with the website design. So it will take a
quarter or two, I think, to work out all the kinks. But it is what it is, it's ERP.
Q - `Catherine W. Ramsey, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker) `
Okay, great. Thank you.
Operator
Next we'll move to Paul Knight with Janney Montgomery Scott.
Q - `Carolina Ibanez-Ventoso, Janney Montgomery Scott LLC
Hello, good morning and this is actually `Carolina Ibanez-Ventoso, Janney Montgomery Scott LLC on for Paul Knight. What are the
end markets driving the strong growth that you are seeing in China? And also, what are the
segments or line of products that are finding more momentum there?
A - Charles R. Kummeth `
It's a good question. I'm actually not that happy with China this last quarter. It's actually our worse
quarter in years here with mid-teens growth and the reason for that is this (31:08) scandal that's
happened. We saw a lot of products into what we call the academic therapeutics where we had
institutions working on therapies without re-approval of the CFDA. So the CFDA now has their
hooks in others. (31:18) And the government's kind of shut down a lot of what's going on inacademia. And you've got to realize that academia in China is a lot of bigger percentage of the
overall market than it is anywhere else because China funds academia very well, as you know.
And we're talking about hundreds of institutions.
So we took a bit of a hit there, but for the year it was 20% growth, which to the point of your
question, is a very good number. I think the last year like 25% as well. We see that continuing even
as we scale. We're still not that big in China. I think when you add all our businesses together, with
PPD as well, I think we're roughly a $40 million business. It was $12 million three years ago so
we've come a long way, but there's a long way we have to go.
The key to China is customers, customers, customers. It's a direct model, where you keep adding
sales people, where you cover it province, city-by-city. You have to have strong leaders. We've
had almost zero attrition, which is remarkable. And the leadership we have in China, as well as
overall Asia, is wonderful. And we did a good job with our people. We hired great people. We
constantly have really good people trying to get to us. R&D Systems' Brand is really well known in
China.
As you know, many of the leaders of the institutions in China running things academia-wise are
Chinese but they're U.S Chinese. They're more predominant than the U.S. citizens. (32:32) Their
people who have gone back, they call them sea turtles. So we have a large amount of
researchers in China that actually were educated in the U.S. They know our brand. They know our
company.
So we really carry the same weight there as we do here in the U.S., known for our premium
brand, our quality, our service, et cetera. So that is the key to it. And we hope to leverage that
across the new businesses, ACD in particular, as well as PPD and instruments. (32:55) Now we've
not seen that chapter hit yet. That chapter is still yet to come. When that takes off, it'll get even
better.
Q - `Carolina Ibanez-Ventoso, Janney Montgomery Scott LLC
Okay, great. And then outside China, have you started seeing a pickup in academic spending and
in particular in the U.S.?
A - Charles R. Kummeth `
Oh, academic – you're asking is there an academic increase?
Q - `Carolina Ibanez-Ventoso, Janney Montgomery Scott LLC
Yes. Yes.
A - Charles R. Kummeth `
We did see an academic increase this quarter. We did pretty well. I mean, in China, I would say it's
about like the same thing I mentioned. I think it's mostly academic anyway. I mean, we would still
put the business we had supporting therapeutics there with academia, and that took a bit of a hit
this quarter. We think it'll take about a year to work through that. It's not going to be as near, as
tough as the last couple of years as they went through their corruption scandal policies, et cetera.
So we'll see.
Q - `Carolina Ibanez-Ventoso, Janney Montgomery Scott LLC
Thank you.A - Charles R. Kummeth `
We enjoy a wonderful KOL network in China. The team there are doctors and scientists
themselves. They know each other pretty well. I'm very, very pleased with our KOL network and
the visibility we get. The tradeshows we drive, there's literally dozens. We run a good operation
for selling mostly just reagents. Our focus going forward now is really getting the instruments,
realigning and synergistic with the core business, just like we've done here and it's working well
here in the U.S. so (34:28).
Q - `Carolina Ibanez-Ventoso, Janney Montgomery Scott LLC
Thank you. Thank you very much.
Operator
And next we move on to Matt Hewitt with Craig-Hallum Capital Group.
Q - `Matthew G. Hewitt, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC `
Good morning, gentlemen. Congratulations on a strong quarter.
A - Charles R. Kummeth `
Thanks.
Q - `Matthew G. Hewitt, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC `
A couple questions from me. First, regarding the academic market here domestically, NIH
funding, I think with the 6% increase this year, I think there was a lot of expectations that it was
going to take a year before you really started to see the benefit from that increase, paying salary
increases and all that. But it appears that you're actually starting to see some benefit already. Is
that the case and what does that mean or imply for next year with the additional increase?
A - Charles R. Kummeth `
Well, we went through the math in this a few quarters ago, what we're going to get from this.
And we came to a conclusion, we thought we'd see about a 1% gain, of a tailwind from the NIH
funding. The amounts that trickle down to us (35:20) that actually hit the reagents budgets, okay?
So I think there is some help. You've heard a lot of our peers have talked about they think the
second half of this calendar year is going to see more of a funding hit. I think in the reagents side,
we're seeing some now. There's no doubt. I mean, I kind of tease my commercial folks. They've
got their chests puffed out pretty hard this last quarters with such strong growth. They're getting
some help for sure. They're probably at least in that 1% range is probably NIH funding and just a
better attitude. We're going in the other direction. They're not cutting anymore, they're starting
to figure out where to add, right, so.
Q - `Matthew G. Hewitt, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC `
Okay, great. And then...
A - Charles R. Kummeth `
That helped, right?Q - `Matthew G. Hewitt, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC `
Yeah. Maybe a little bit of a strategic question, but with the acquisition of Advanced Cell
Diagnostics, this is your first move into genomics. Do you envision essentially building out a fourth
reporting segment, where this will be kind of the building block of that division, or was this just an
opportunity to kind of expand a little bit more for that existing segment?
A - Charles R. Kummeth `
Well, a couple things. First of all, when you think of our core business, we really are a picks-and-
shovels provider to areas like cancer research, stem cell, and we're known for quality so we're
the selection of choice by especially biotech pharma and coming back hard on the academics
side. We see ACD as the same thing. To say that we're right in the sweet spot of genomics with
ACD is probably a reach. It's really a picks-and-shovels company as well in genomics, certainly
gene editing, 9,000 probes, these products. But we like it because it's reagents, it's a kit
business, it's just like our business. And it gets us into that area where we can – where we know
how to provide picks-and-shovels.
On the Clinical Control side, same thing, diagnostics. We're not a full-fledged diagnostics
company, but we supply the upstream reagents, chemistries, kits to the big guys, every one of
the big guys that make true diagnostics that they go through the pain and the agony of the
qualifications and regulatory, and we haven't had to do that. We're drifting that direction. We've
been very clear, we'd like to get in some of that, maybe in China and some things. And we're
opportunistic but we're not going to go full into it. You look at last quarter on diagnostics, there's
not many doing so well in diagnostics. It's been a rough quarter. It's an area that you've got to be
careful, we think. Same thing for genomics. We like the reagents, the support upside of this
business to start with, then we'll see.
Now, with that business growth beyond $100 million or so, I've been very clear we'd like to
continue to build out our regional subsidiary model. We have three divisions today, we work on
three regions. Five or six divisions will be great, and it could be diagnostics. It could be genomics,
could be media. These are all areas that are very strong adjacencies to what we do today. And as
we build critical mass, we'll make new divisions in the reporting segments.
To start with, we won't be doing that with ACD. They have an 18-month earn-out. We'll provide
upside help but they have to be a little bit autonomous for 18 months and then we'll see how
they do. If they get big enough maybe, more likely initially, they'll be part of Biotech division, but
it's too early to call that one, to be honest.
Q - `Matthew G. Hewitt, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC `
All right, great. Thank you.
A - Charles R. Kummeth `
It's research only, right? So that's the thing right now.
Operator
And there are no further questions at this time. I would like to turn the call back over to Chuck
Kummeth for any additional or closing remarks.
A - Charles R. Kummeth `All right. Well, our strongest quarter and year, we've certainly enjoyed seeing 10%. We're
definitely focused on our margins and we're focused on synergies. We've got more to bake in
here, we're working hard on it so you can be sure of that. Thanks all for joining the call and we'll
see you hopefully soon, if not in New York, okay? Bye.
Operator
And that will conclude today's call. We thank you for your participation.