Q4 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning and welcome to the Bio-Techne Earnings Conference Call for the Fourth Quarter
of Fiscal Year 2020. At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the
call will be opened for questions following management's prepared remarks. During our Q&A
session, please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up. I would now like to turn the call
over to `David Clair, Senior Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Development, Bio-Techne's Senior Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Development.
`David Clair, Senior Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Development `
Good morning and thank you for joining us. On the call with me this morning are `Chuck Kummeth, Chief Executive Officer,
Chief Executive Officer, and `Jim Hippel, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Financial Officer of Bio-Techne.
Before we begin, let me briefly cover our Safe Harbor statement. Some of the comments made
during this conference call may be considered forward-looking statements, including beliefs and
expectations about the company's future results, as well as the potential impact of COVID-19
pandemic on our operations and financial results. The Company's 10-K for fiscal year 2019
identifies certain factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from
those projected in the forward-looking statements made during this call. The Company does not
undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result of any new information or future
events or developments. The 10-K, as well as the Company's other SEC filings, are available on
the company's website within its Investor Relations section.
During the call, non-GAAP financial measures may be used to provide information pertinent to
ongoing business performance. Tables reconciling these measures to most comparable GAAP
measures are available in the Company's press release issued earlier this morning on the Bio-
Techne Corporation website at www.bio-techne.com.
I will now turn the call over to Chuck.
`Chuck Kummeth, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Dave, and good morning everyone. Thank you for joining us for our fourth quarter
conference call. With the COVID-19 pandemic in full swing, we just finished the most challengingquarter in my tenure at Bio-Techne and perhaps the most challenging in the history of the
Company. Despite the challenges that COVID-19 has brought to all our stakeholders, namely our
customers and employees, we persevered through the last quarter of our fiscal 2020 year by
outperforming the expectations we set one quarter ago and maintaining a high level of
profitability and positive cash flow. All while pivoting a large number of our technical resources
toward developing products that will help our customers, and society at large, eventually defeat
this virus.
I'll cover the highlights of these initiatives in a moment, but first a high level review of our overall
results for the quarter and the fiscal year.
In Q4, our organic revenue decreased by 8%, outperforming our initial expectations for a decline
of somewhere between 10% and 20%. We estimate COVID-related products provide a 5%
tailwind during the quarter. This tailwind came from products produced by every division in the
Company which play a key role in enabling researchers to better understand COVID-19, develop
therapies and vaccines to combat the virus, as well as screen and diagnose infected patients.
Overall business trends improved as Q4 progressed with sales declines in the low to mid-teens
for the month of April-May and then improving quite significantly in June to low single-digit
declines. However, the swings by end-markets and regions were more pronounced. For example,
academic end-markets experienced a much more severe trough early in the quarter and have
been slower to come back to normal.
While from a regional perspective, Europe bounced back towards the end of the quarter, ahead
of the US. This makes sense given that Europe experienced the worst of the economic shut down
before the US and so far seems to have more effectively contain the virus spread. As we all know,
the spread of the virus and the containment tactics that go along with it, is a very fluid situation,
so we are not out of the woods yet, but I am encouraged by the improving business trends we
experienced exiting the quarter and into July. Given these challenging and uncertain business
conditions, we kept our expenses in check, balancing our spending on growth initiatives and our
commitment to keeping the Bio-Techne team intact, with strict attention to discretionary
spending.
This financial discipline enabled us to finish the quarter with an adjusted operating margin of
31.1%, clearly not what we expect long term, but respectable given the current environment. We
view the virus impact on our business as transitory and remain confident in our ability to return to
at least 40% adjusted operating margins as COVID-related headwinds subside and we execute
on our long-term strategic plan.
Prior to the pandemic, we were on track to deliver another year of double-digit organic growth in
fiscal 2020, but with COVID, we finished the year with 4% organic growth. However, when our
customers all eventually return their labs and clinics, our growth pillars, namely cell and gene
therapy, Exosome Diagnostics, Genomics, RNA Scope and our portfolio ProteinSimple branded
instruments, position Bio-Techne to return quickly to a double-digit organic growth profile. And
now layering in the potential long-term tailwinds from our new COVID portfolio gives us
incremental confidence in our ability to return to our targeted growth trajectory.
Before I update you on our key strategic growth and COVID-related activities, I do want to
highlight our performance in China. As you know, COVID impacted China more severely back in
February and March when government mandated lockdowns were in force. You will remember
from our last earnings call that our China business still managed to grow in the mid single-digits
during that very difficult environment. Well, I couldn't be happier to report that in Q4, organicgrowth in China was back over 20%. Our China team has done a phenomenal job, adopting to
the new normal, leveraging webinars and online meeting tools to stay in front of their customers
and drive the business forward as the country emerges from the pandemic.
As we start fiscal 21, we could see growth slow a bit from its Q4 pace as resurgence of the virus
has flared up in places like Beijing and Hong Kong. But over the long term, our China business
remains in the early innings of its growth trajectory and there is runway for many more years of
20% annual growth ahead.
Now, an update on our growth in COVID-19 initiatives, starting with the Protein Sciences segment
and our core reagents. Our team quickly recognized the need to help our customers conduct
their research in all aspects of COVID-19 and responded by ramping production of related
proteins, antibodies, small molecules and assays, already found in our catalog. They also
developed dozens of new products to support research of this novel virus and are continuing to
do so. Within our instruments portfolio, production of our Simple Plex platform was also ramped
to meet the soaring demand for Ella instruments and it's highly sensitive, automated
immunoassays that are being used to manage patient care associated with the cytokine storm
syndrome often found in severely infected patients.
With year on year growth approaching 100% for this platform in Q4, our operating teams did an
outstanding job, keeping up with the demand. Also, our Biologics platform continues to grow
exceedingly well with solid double-digit growth both in Q4 and the full year. We have high growth
expectations for this platform as it continues to expand its application base from traditional
biological drug production, quality and control into cell and gene therapy applications. Our
Biologics portfolio, with its subvisible particle characterization analytical capabilities, is also seeing
strong interest from vaccine developers, enabling them to better understand their manufacturing
and profitability processes.
Speaking of cell and gene therapy, we continued to make progress on the construction of our
newly dedicated GMP protein factory. Construction the facility remains on track to provide GMP
proteins in large scale to our cell and gene therapy customers by the second half of fiscal 2021. In
the meantime, our GMP protein portfolio continues to expand at a rapid pace, nearly 100% in Q4,
which now includes a number of immune cytokines, typically used to grow cells for clinical trials.
During the quarter, we also launched GMP ProDots. This disruptive product allows still addition of
our renowned R&D Systems GMP proteins to culture vessels in cell and gene therapies. As a
reminder, earlier this year, we entered into a commercial consortium with Wilson Wolf and
Fresenius Kabi, that offers easier access to a complete and simplified cell and gene therapy
workflow solution using products from all three parties. This workflow includes Fresenius Kabi's
Lovo instrument for leukapheresis, Wilson Wolf's G-Rex bioreactor and Bio-Techne's Cloudz Cell
Activation, TcBuster gene editing and GMP proteins.
During Q4, the JV made additional progress, establishing a unified sales structure, a customer-
facing website and point of sale and creating impactful marketing collateral featuring all three
parents' offerings. We believe the JV is well positioned to take share in this emerging therapeutic
market.
Moving on to our Diagnostics and Genomics segment, where I'm happy to report that we
managed not to decline in revenue this past quarter, despite the COVID shutdown headwinds.
I'm even more pleased to report that this segment actually expanded operating margins over
last year by more than 200 basis points and increased operating profit by 20%. While our
genomics product for severely impacted by the closure of academic labs, our team was able topartially mitigate this shortfall by producing and selling hundreds of RNA scope probes for
COVID-19 virus detection in tissue, allowing researchers to confirm the organs that are
susceptible to this virus.
Our Diagnostics Research division was able to deliver solid mid single-digit growth in the quarter,
despite customer delays, in ordering controls and calibrators used for routine diagnostic tests
used by clinicians. Our team was able to more than offset this shortfall by supplying specialty
diagnostic antibodies and other raw materials to COVID-19 testing manufacturers. And in
Exosome Diagnostics, we validated and launched COVID-19 real-time qPCR tests our labs, both
in Waltham, Massachusetts and Munich, Germany. Following the implementation of processes and
instruments to automate the test, we will be able -- we will be capable of scaling testing capacity
to several hundred samples per day. This lab-developed test will provide rapid and reliable
detection of patients with active COVID-19 infections, especially in the Boston area.
However, Exosome Diagnostics also experienced headwinds related to COVID-19, as ExoDx
prostate test volume was severely impacted by the near-complete shutdown of urologists'
offices. As we announced last quarter, the team responded by launching an at-home collection kit
in Q4 for our ExoDx prostate test, enabling men unable to visit their urologist's office to have
access to the test and the knowledge of whether a biopsy should be prioritized. The at-home
collection kit was launched with a patient-targeted marketing strategy, including search-engine
optimization, a Facebook campaign and webinars to drive awareness that patients do not need
to go into urologist's office to have access to this valuable test. We believe the flexibility of
providing a urine sample at the convenience of the patient will be yet another key differentiator
of the ExoDx prostate test from the competition.
The response to our at-home collection kit has been very positive with both patients and
urologists and already consists of more than 10% of our current test volume. The impact of the
at-home test collection kit, our push-pull marketing strategy and the gradual reopening of
urologists' offices, has had a positive impact in our EPI test volume since it bottomed in April, with
June daily test counts approximately 75% of pre-COVID test monthly run rate, and continue to
show improvement in July.
Before I turn the call over to Jim for his financial review, I want to provide an update on what could
be our biggest COVID-19 related initiative to date. Our co-branded R&D Systems Mount Sinai
COVID Serology Assay Test. During the quarter, we announced a collaboration with Kantaro
Biosciences, a Mount Sinai-led joint venture, to manufacture and commercialize a serology assay
based on Mount Sinai's test. This was a tremendous effort by both the Bio-Techne and Mount
Sinai teams, condensing the typical 18-month ELISA kit development time frame to just six weeks.
This two-step serology test is a truly differentiated offering, going beyond the qualitative
information provided by other COVID serology assays in the market, with the second step
providing a titer, or measurement, of the antibodies present to neutralize the virus.
The second step completely eliminates false positives, with Mount Sinai's assay having a 100%
positive predictive value, or PPV and 99.6% negative predictive value, or NPV. To date, diagnostic
activity has focused on PCR or antigen based tests to detect active COVID-19 infections. We
believe serology test volumes will increase as the second wave of testing emerges, focusing on
the surveillance activities necessary to reopen the economy, and to help better manage
vaccination programs, once available. Yesterday, Kantaro Biosciences submitted a request to the
FDA for an emergency use authorization, or EUA, for quantitative use of our serological assay. We
anticipate the EUA process to be complete in mid to late August.Kantaro and Bio-Techne have joined forces to develop marketing materials, a branding and go-
to-market strategy for the assay, highlighting the unique quantitative information provided, as
well as the best-in-class performance of the assay. We are ready to launch this assay upon receipt
of the EUA and have the capacity to produce millions of tests per month as needed.
Also yesterday, we announced the launch of the COVID-SeroIndex, a research use only, or RUO
version of the two-step serology assay. This assay is designed to meet the current vaccine
developer needs for an objective measurement of immune response to a vaccine, making the
test ideal for identifying the most potent vaccine candidates, determining optimal dosing,
identifying the appropriate vaccine schedule and when boosters may be needed.
In summary, I'm extremely proud of the way the team responded to a challenging business
environment in the 4th quarter. Our end-markets showed steady improvement as the quarter
progressed and have continued to improve in July, with our academic and biopharma end-
markets reopening and our COVID-related product seeing continued traction. We are on the
cusp of launching the first commercial quantitative IGG COVID-19 serology assay, which has
potential to answer many of the important questions necessary to reopen our economies further
and push the best vaccines forward. We are entering fiscal 2021 in a positive -- sorry, in a position
of financial strength, with a portfolio of best-in-class products, targeting high-growth in under-
penetrated market opportunities. We are ready to continue to execute on our long-term strategic
plan.
With that I will turn the call over to Jim.
`Jim Hippel, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Chuck. I'll provide an overview of our Q4 fiscal 2020 financial performance for the total
Company, provide some additional color on the performance of each of our segments and give
some initial thoughts on the pace of business recovery from the pandemic In the near-term.
Starting with the overall 4th quarter financial performance, adjusted EPS was $1, versus $1.25 one
year ago, with foreign exchange negatively impacting EPS by $0.01. GAAP EPS for the quarter was
$1.48, compared to $0.42 in the prior year. The biggest driver for the increase in GAAP EPS was
unrealized gains and our investment in ChemoCentryx this year, compared to unrealized
ChemoCentryx losses in the prior year.
Q4 revenue was $175.8 million, a decrease of 8% year-over-year on a reported and organic basis.
Foreign exchange translation and acquisitions had an immaterial impact on our revenue. For the
full year fiscal 2020, revenue was $738.7 million, an increase of 4% on a reported and organic
basis. By geography in Q4, the US declined approximately 20%, while Europe declined
approximately 4%, as European customer shut down their labs earlier than the US and then
reopened in a faster later in the quarter.
As Chuck mentioned, China had a remarkable quarter with organic growth increasing 24%. As for
the rest of Asia, organic growth declined mid single-digits, with almost all countries in some way
being negatively impacted by the pandemic. By end-market, biopharma declined mid single-
digits, while academic sales decreased by nearly 30%.
Moving on to the details of the P&L, total Company adjusted gross margin was 69.5% in the
quarter, compared to 71.9% in the prior year. The decrease was due to unfavorable volume
leverage and mix. Adjusted SG&A in Q4 was 28.9% of revenue, a 60 basis point increase
compared to the prior year, due to unfavorable volume leverage. I do want to point out that our
adjusted SG&A spend was down nearly $3.5 million from the prior year, highlighting our disciplineon discretionary spend, while keeping our teams intact with no furloughs or reductions in force.
For GAAP reporting, SG&A expense in the current period also reflects an approximately $7 million
gain on settlement of the escrow balance associated with the Exosome acquisition. This is
accounted for as a reduction in SG&A in Q4 of fiscal year 20.
R&D expense in Q4 was 9.5% of revenue, a 100 basis points higher than the prior year, due to
unfavorable volume leverage and investments in COVID-19 related product development. Here
our adjusted spend was about 0.5 million higher than the prior year, emphasizing our conviction
to continue to invest in the business for the long term. The resulting adjusted operating margin
for Q4 was 31.1%, a decrease of 400 basis points from the prior year period.
Looking at our numbers below operating income, net interest expense in Q4 was $4.4 million,
decreasing $0.8 million compared to the prior year period. The decrease was due to a substantial
reduction of our bank debt during fiscal 2020. Our bank debt on the balance sheet as of the end
of Q4, stood at $357 million. Other adjusted non-operating income was $0.5 million for the
quarter, compared to $0.1 million from Q4 last year, primarily reflecting the foreign exchange
impact related to our cash pooling arrangement. For GAAP reporting other non-operating income
includes unrealized gains from our investment in ChemoCentryx.
Moving further down the P&L, our adjusted effective tax rate in Q4 was 21.4%, similar to the prior
year and what we expect for the foreseeable future.
Turning to cash flow and return of capital, $44.8 million of cash was generated from operations in
the quarter, down 20% over Q4 of last year, and consistent with our adjusted earnings. In Q4, our
net investment in capital expenditures was $17.3 million, primarily driven by construction of our
new GMP protein factory, which remains on schedule for completion by the end of the calendar
year.
During Q4, we returned capital to shareholders with $12.3 million of dividends. We finished the
fiscal year with $39.7 million average diluted shares outstanding. For the full fiscal year, cash flow
from operations was $205.2 million, up 13% from our fiscal 2019 result. Our net investment in
capital expenditures was $51.7 million, consisting of $24.1 million in baseline CapEx and a $27.6
million investment in our GMP protein facility.
Our balance sheet remains very strong with $270.9 million in cash in short-term available for sale
investments and a total leverage ratio of well under one times EBITDA. Our total leverage is at
the lowest level since before the 2014 acquisition of ProteinSimple.
Next, I'll discuss the performance of our reporting segments, starting with Protein Sciences. Q4
reported sales were $127.3 million, with reported revenue decreasing 11%. Organic growth also
decreased 11%, with foreign exchange and acquisitions having a negligible impact on revenue
growth. Within the segment, product lines with higher academic exposure, namely our reagent
solutions portfolio, experienced significant headwinds.
As Chuck mentioned, we had an exceptional quarter in both our Biologics and Simple Plex
instrument platforms, which partially offset the impact of lab closures due the pandemic.
Operating margin for the Protein Sciences segment was 38.9%, a decrease of 650 basis points
year-over-year, due primarily to unfavorable volume leverage and to a lesser extent, unfavorable
product mix.
Turning to the Diagnostics and Genomics segment. Q4 reported sales were $48.7 million,
relatively flat with the prior-year result. Organically, revenues grew 1%, with foreign exchange
translation having an unfavorable 1% impact on revenue. Within the segment, our DiagnosticReagents division increased mid single-digits with strong COVID-19 related raw material tailwinds
benefiting the business.
Meanwhile, our Genomics division, which like our Research Solutions Division in Protein Sciences
has a large exposure to the excitant market and took the biggest COVID-related hit in the
segment with a double-digit percentage decline in sales in Q4. However, as labs gradually started
to open throughout the quarter and into July, we have also seen Genomics performance
dramatically improved.
Additionally, we anticipate the launch of Micro RNAscope, increased penetration of High-Plex and
continued adoption of RNAscope for COVID-19 applications, to positively contribute to growth
going forward.
Finally, Exosome Diagnostics Q4 revenue increased over 80% from last year, with higher
collections from Medicare, private payers and patients, as well as progress from our partnerships,
driving the year-over-year increase. Keep in mind that Exosome is still on a cash basis for revenue
recognition, so collections from pre-pandemic tests helped the recorded sales in the quarter.
Moving on to operating margins for the Diagnostics and Genomics segment, at 12.4%, the
segment's operating margin improved from 10.3% reported in the prior year. The increase
reflects favorable volume leverage and our Diagnostics Reagents division, less dilution from
Exosome Diagnostics, as well as strong cost management.
Before we turn the call over to Q&A, I will share our current perspective of the view ahead. First,
and most importantly, our strategic financial goals for the next three to five years remain
unchanged. Our novel, automated protein analytical capabilities, our cutting edge tissue and
liquid biopsy technologies, our tool kit of cell and gene therapy manufacturing solutions, together
with our core world-class protein reagents, are as well positioned as ever to help our customers
advance the study of life sciences, and we believe in a post-COVID world, the need to advance
the study of life sciences will be greater than ever before. This gives us even greater confidence
in achieving our long-term financial goals.
But first, our customers, namely life science researchers and diagnostic practitioners, need to all
get back to work. This is starting to happen as our monthly pacing of steriles recovery within Q4
made clear. However, there are still too many unknowns about what the impact of the pandemic,
and any potential vaccines, will have on our lives this fall and winter. This uncertainty prevents us
from giving our view on our full fiscal year 21 financial performance with any sort of confidence
intervals. So we are managing our outlook month by month, quarter by quarter, staying nimble to
deploy resources for the needs of our customers as they arise.
As a reminder, our first quarter of fiscal year 20 was very strong and will likely be the toughest
comparable for the upcoming year. Thus, holding flat year-over-year in Q1, on both the top and
bottom-line, we see it as the right trajectory to keep us on track to our long-term plans. The
downside risk to this trajectory would be a pause or reversal in our customers going back to work,
due to a worsening of the pandemic. An upside of this trajectory would be regulatory approval of
our of quantitative COVID serology assay test, coupled with an early successful commercial
launch.
That concludes my prepared comments and with that, I will turn the call back over the operator to
open the line for questions.
Questions And AnswersOperator
Ladies and gentlemen, we will now have a question-and-answer session. (Operator instructions)
Our first question comes from `Puneet Souda, Analyst, SVB Leerink with SVB Leerink. Please proceed with your
question.
Q - `Puneet Souda, Analyst, SVB Leerink `
Thanks. Yes thanks, Chuck. So first question is on guide, if you can just elaborate a little bit on the
first quarter scenario here that you're presenting flat. Just trying to get a better understanding of
what sort of trends are you seeing in July that give you this view, or is there -- one would have
expected the academic labs to continue to improve and if we do so, slightly better than flat, is
that not something that is doable, despite the tough comps here? That's my first question. And I
have three follow-ups.
A - `Chuck Kummeth, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, first and foremost we finished this last quarter, still down eight and it could have been worse
than that. We did have a tailwind and the tailwind's improving. We are seeing a resurgence in July,
not so dissimilar to we saw with China coming back on, so July numbers are a very -- are a very
good start, as Jim alluded to. But, there's two months to go, and we have a -- we have a 13%
comp from last year to cover, so that's the big one. So coming back from negative, come into this
quarter in a tough comp, we think flat. We could give a range. We were minis 10, minus 20 last
quarter. We talked about saying something from zero to 10 or something, or minus five to plus
five, but I think the best thing is to keep it as tight as we can. We think flat's the right trajectory for
us.
And, you know, if -- there are upsides now. If we stay with what we see in July continue to the
whole quarter, I think it'll be upside. We didn't see it in China, we saw things level off and expect
we'll see things level off here too. I mean, we are seeing a really strong start in the quarter and
it's just probably not plausible. Not to mention, there are hotspots and resurgence going on and
it's just very unpredictable what's going to happen. I know that I looked at the numbers this
morning and it looks very encouraging in the US US for the numbers this week, but who's to say?
So I think on top of the comp, I think flat is right. Europe continues to progress, be a little bit
ahead of us. UK is the only real outlier here and we'll have to watch and see what happens there.
And China is actually a little bit going the wrong direction right now, right? So if that gets worse,
we'll see. India and others are not as bad as I would have thought, given their population and
their ability to actually deal with this, but that's a good thing. And then on top of all this, there is
upside on our COVID, right? So if we get our EUA in two to four weeks and we get a good, solid
month of coming out with this product, that's really not our numbers in this forecast. So, there is
upside. And we have other COVID products as well. Simple products we talked about, had just an
amazing quarter and it's looking like it's going to continue. Maybe not quite at 100% growth, but
darn good growth, I guarantee you.
So we need academia to come back, we need urologists to come back and the progression has
started but, but it's not, they're not all the way back, even at in this quarter we don't think, so,
we're going to stay cautious. We don't officially give guidance, this is the closest we've ever
come, and we're talking about staying flat against a strong comp, so, that gives you something,
Puneet.
Q - `Puneet Souda, Analyst, SVB Leerink `Yes, thanks, I appreciate the details there and my next question is serology. I think this is a
question that we've been getting from investors as well. What is your expectation here for
contribution from serology in fiscal year 21? And I'm asking that because COVID serology market
has lagged significantly behind the PCR market, given that PCR is more -- essentially more
diagnostic capabilities. Obviously serology is only giving you a snapshot in time.
So, and then some of the peer companies have also lowered their expectations in serology
significantly and going into the next quarter, so, I'm wondering what are you baking in for
serology and what gives you confidence that you can grow sort of about the market here in
serology?
A - `Chuck Kummeth, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Well, I'm want to give you some comments here and they're really meant for everybody,
not just you, so not to cover the same ground here and then in questions later and that we get
this out kind of to all of you at once, just to be really careful. We've invested a lot in our tests. We
have submitted one hell of a dossier in the FDA, let me tell you, and it is an incredible data
package. We have gone far and beyond really what the FDA requires for something like this. As
you know, it's a two-step. When we decided to go fully quantitative a couple of months ago and
take a step back and take some extra time, the FDA, first of all was starting to get clogged up
with a awful lot of requests. Two, being we're talking about asking for a fully quantitative EUA, and
nobody else has done that, and they really, really asked for an awful lot of extra stuff, extra data,
extra testing. We have complete sensitivity data done. We did cross-reactivity tests against 14
major diseases. We have stats on all of this that are phenomenal. We know of nothing out there
that compares, but we don't maybe know everything that's coming out either. So, we're only
talking about what's out there now.
We do also know, and the FDA, regrettably, also knows that they've issued a lot of preliminary
EUAs that they probably regret, and allowing these initial qualitative tests have become a tarnish
to the whole serology potential, and we have to overcome that. But we're very sure and we're
very clear on the fact there is a need for a quantitative serology test that really can identify the
level of immunity in a patient, and this is going to be important, more and more important as
vaccines come on the market, and patients want to know, are they having a response or not?
And so we see a surveillance side of this that's going to only grow and it's not going away in a
year. So, will it match the -- are you sick now? -- testing environment of PCR? Maybe not, but it's
going to be a very large market and we're not a very big company, and we're going to have the
best test, at least for a while. So we're very confident that we're going to be treated very fairly by
the FDA and we'll be out there before this quarter end, hopefully. But there's no guarantee. This
is the FDA and there are hundreds of tests out there trying to get in, in all different forms.
We know of nothing else out there that can match us. We had incredible partners with Kantaro
and thenMount Sinai. They are managing most of the bureaucracy here, being we're not, we're
not that experienced at it. And we've got great consultants on the staff, through Kantaro as well,
who have really taken control of our dossier and our package and our data, everything. Our team
here at Bio-Techne has around the clock for months now and as already fulfilled their mission we
feel and we're ready to go and we're not kidding. We're ready to go at millions per month, if not
millions per week.
So, but you're right. Right now, it's a kind of a 10% kind of market demand compared to the PCR,
but we think it will improve and it will improve with tests getting better, with vaccines coming on
the market and the economy is opening up and people want to go back to work and knowingQ - `Puneet Souda, Analyst, SVB Leerink `
Thanks, that's very helpful. And my last one on the cell and gene therapy, it's obviously an
important growth driver and new market opening for you here for the next few years. So when is
the earliest we can see the revenue in that and maybe Jim can provide some details on anything
we should be modeling and how should we be looking at for that in 2021? And if you could also
provide any updated thoughts on the level of interest you're seeing and early commitments for
the capacity that you are building out in the first year? If you could provide some color, that would
be helpful. Thank you.
A - `Chuck Kummeth, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, as you know, we are selling GMP proteins now, we're just not selling them in larger batches.
So our GMP protein business is growing and growing near 100%. So we'll be moving all of that
over to the facility, once we are able to. So we are on schedule, on budget. We'll be opening the
facility in late September, qualifying for the rest of this calendar year and be open for business for
scaled up production revenue probably January, something. We have one completed, signed up,
large customer and we are in negotiations with half a dozen others, and behind that are a lot
more others, on pre-clinicals and testing and people getting ready to the check us out.
So it's a hard to guess right now, what that first year revenue will be coming out of that factory,
but it's certainly going to be significant. We will not fill our capacity in the first year, we've never
said we would. We probably, say, could take as long as five years to a full $140 million. We don't
think it will take that long, but it could. Our models don't go beyond that, so it would only be
upside. So we're ready to expand it to $200 million model and it would take about a six-month to
a one-year window to do that, so we think we have ample time, we've got ample room in the
building, we've got ample green space, so no issues there.
Equipment is all here. The site looks phenomenal. We're going to have a fantastic viewing quarter
for the processes. Our local Minnesota Science Museum, who is the world, or the country leader
in exhibition design, if this is for sale, they're going to help us design how to how to exhibit and
how to show the processes. So it will be, it will be a great -- a great venue for customers to come
in and see what they can expect and it's going to be fun. So everything is on track. The numbers
haven't changed since we've told you before, really so.
A - `Jim Hippel, Chief Financial Officer `
I'll add with regards to the GMP factory itself, in terms of the revenue generated from it, aside
from just the growth in our normal clinical business, as Chuck mentioned, where it's growing at
100% for GMP proteins, these large customer deals that we've either signed signed or are in
negotiations with right now, they're all in various phases of clinicals right now. They're not
commercialized themselves yet. So, reality is, is until they get through their Phase III and become
commercialized, we really won't have a good view of the timing of when we'll see that major step
up in revenue from those customers.
A - `Chuck Kummeth, Chief Executive Officer `
And these are ones that aren't really out there now or coming out. I mean, as you know, there's
an awful lot of of viral vector-based cell therapies coming out the other end of next year or two,
and we're not in those clinicals. But, being we're not part of the drug, it would take the
equivalency testing to actually move over to our protein if it's deemed to be of better value,
better quality etc. So we expect as we open will get more and more interest from the dozensand dozens of cell therapies that will be coming out over the next two to three years. That's our
angle anyway.
Q - `Puneet Souda, Analyst, SVB Leerink `
That's great, thanks for the detail. Thanks, Jim.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Catherine Schulte, Analyst, Baird with Baird. Please proceed with your
question.
Q - `Catherine Schulte, Analyst, Baird `
Hey guys, thanks for the questions. I guess, first just on China, great to see that strong return to
growth in the quarter. You talked about seeing that reverse to some extent. I guess, what's
implied for China in the flat, overall guide for the first quarter?
A - `Chuck Kummeth, Chief Executive Officer `
We don't see anything below double-digits forever in China, to be honest. So, we almost got to
that last quarter, so we were 24% this quarter, the resurgence is a big part of that. I think we'd
probably be north of 20 if we didn't see the new shutdowns in Beijing and other things, but but
with that in case, it's kind of unknown, but I think we still see a strong 15-ish kind of number at
least. We're hoping for better, you know, you never know with China. It's not going to be below
double-digit, but it could still be over 20 as well.
Q - `Catherine Schulte, Analyst, Baird `
Okay, that's helpful. And with everything you have going on on the diagnostics side and also in
vaccine and therapeutic development, is it possible to quantify what kind of COVID-related
tailwinds you saw in the quarter and how you expect those to trend going forward?
A - `Chuck Kummeth, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, well, we had 5% last quarter, alright? And that's going to improve modestly with the current
products, like Ella and RNAscope continues to see some traction. We're selling reagents, we're
even selling antibodies into other test manufacturers, antibodies that we're not using in our tests,
of course. So were in -- we're a full service build supplier to everybody, right, that's what we do. I
think the big upside of course is the serology traction. If we get the EUA, these aren't going to be
small orders. If we get this, they'll be all large orders, and we're talking with a lot of large
institutions. I will make a comment now too, I mean, the commercial channel, and as I mentioned
before, it's one thing to be able to make five million to 10 million tests a week, it's another to get
in the engine of doing five million to 10 million blood draws a week, and that's the mission here.
So we've got to be working with governments, with the large reference labs, the vaccine makers,
the hospital management systems out there that are really managing all these labs and working
all these blood draws for all this automated testing that goes on every day in the hospitals and
clinics around the world.
So that's what we're really working on now, have been for a couple of months already. We are
definitely beyond term sheets with some and there is a lot of interest, as you can imagine. So,
but that's what's going to drive the speed of traction and the level of traction, not only this
quarter, but come Q2 and beyond.Q - `Catherine Schulte, Analyst, Baird `
Great. And then maybe just one model cleanup question for Jim, recognizing you don't want to
give give specific guidance, but how should we think about sequential OpEx changes in the
coming quarter and how quickly you're planning on bringing back some of that SG&A spend?
A - `Jim Hippel, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, I'd say from a sequential perspective, there'll be perhaps a little bit of uplift, if nothing else,
because we -- the first quarter is when our annual merit increases, for example, can kick in. Butt
it's going to be fairly minimal. We're obviously still in a mode of being very tight on our
discretionary spend, really not investing in any -- much in the way of any new hires at this point. So
we're still being very, very careful with regards to our investment. So I would just say nominal
sequential spend from Q4 to Q1.
A - `Chuck Kummeth, Chief Executive Officer `
We're really, we're really on a kind of a flat, kind of keeping it things as it goes. As you remember,
Catherine, we spend a lot of time and we're Minneapolis so finding top talent from the Bay Area,
or Boston, to come here for biotech research and work, it's difficult. So we've done acquisitions in
these these better locations and we really worked hard to building a world-class team over the
last six, seven years. We don't see this pandemic as more than a one to two year bubble of the
real pain, and the last thing we wanted to do was to ruin our team. So we decided to suck it up
and not do any for furloughing, we didn't do any restructuring, so we could have delivered more
to the bottom line, yet you saw our tremendous result.
So I mean, that speaks to the tight processes we have here as an operating team. We run a very,
very good template of processes, both weekly, monthly and quarterly. We know what we're
spending and why. We prioritize continually. We were able to pivot a large percentage of the
company towards our pandemic related, COVID-related activities, and yet we still had almost
near typical year-on-year NPI for products. So we've done a great job there.
And a lot of it came from taking the pressure off our team, them not worrying about going on
furloughs or being restructured, so it's steady as she goes here. That said, they're all watching
what we spent and we feel, if we do have any attrition, we replace if needed and we certainly
aren't doing expansion in areas, other than these mission-critical areas. We are of course adding
in operations for the expected ramp up for for our serology test is one example. We are certainly
ramping up around Ella with 100% growth in Simple Plex, we're going to have to have resources.
We've told China, you know, you're back to 24% growth, you know what, you can hire. But to hire,
you have to grow, and when we're not growing, we're not hiring. So.
Q - `Catherine Schulte, Analyst, Baird `
That's great, thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Dan Arias, Analyst, Stifel with Stifel. Please proceed with your
question.
Q - `Dan Arias, Analyst, Stifel `
Morning, guys. Thanks. Wanted to ask couple of reimbursement questions, if I could? First, Chuckinvolved, I think, secondary pricing was the way that you phrased it, which might have sort of a
greater level of incentivization that's attached to it for the labs. Is that something that you still
think is in the picture?
And then on Exosome, specific to the commercial side of that business, I'm curious whether, A,
the clinical utility study is helping negotiations there. And then if I go back to some of the things
that you were talking about this time last year, it sounded like that you guys were having some
good success in just keeping the private payer rates from being too far -- not too far from the
CMS rate? Is that what you expect going forward, or do you think there is some discounting that
comes into the picture in order to sort of bag some of those bigger payers?
A - `Chuck Kummeth, Chief Executive Officer `
Well let we work in reverse order. So, the payer situation is still improving at acceptable levels.
The utility study is being acknowledged and being well received and it's helping us line up bigger
payers. The Medicare is still coming back and growing, I think we're on track and then NGS of
course is very excited about getting back to us on reconsideration. They actually love the utility
study and we're going to be following up with some other data here soon. But, of course, they
don't meet every month, so we've got -- we've got plenty of time until this fall and to get the
package really in good place for a reconsideration.
That said, the TIRF process has really -- it's really helped us get around that big potential shortfall
with the limited definition to the LCD, to the LCD, but but we're okay I think for now. So it's kind of
steady as it goes. We had great growth and we continue to see it in the at-home test, I think is
really a sleeper. I mean, that thing is going to allow us to really take off and then, stay tuned.
We've got some new coming advertising campaigns that are also going to be, I think, well
received. So we're moving well along there.
What was your question before that?
Q - `Dan Arias, Analyst, Stifel `
Just on serology and the way in which reimbursement might work there and whether or not labs
have a more of an accepted view that --
A - `Chuck Kummeth, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So we did submit to CMS for a CPT-code, a special, and we got it, we have a new code. But
we don't have pricing yet and we can't get the pricing until the EUA is out. And so at all -- it all
works together. Clearly we will do a crosswalk at some point with CMS, when it's appropriate, and
that may follow the EUA, but I don't think there's any issue, any worries about that. And
incidentally higher than the $42 charge for a one-step test out there currently. I think, when
people see the -- the extra difficulty, the technical hurdles that are here, the more information,
the better results, we're -- Kantaro Mount Sinai for sure, are very confident that we're going to be
dealt with fairly.
And we need all this because, for the channel to accept this and drive it and prioritize it, there has
to be a little more because a it costs more. So.
Q - `Dan Arias, Analyst, Stifel `
Okay, that's helpful. Thanks, Chuck. And then just maybe on the Ella business. It sounds like you
had the strong quarter that you were expecting there. Can you kind of just talk about demand byare you thinking that it is that that becomes sort of a go-to-platform for day-to-day patient testing
and management when it comes to running these ELISA assays, if at that time does come?
A - `Chuck Kummeth, Chief Executive Officer `
Well I've always, I've often spoke about it being the big sleeper in our stable and the Micropoint
opportunity in China is just one indication. That's a $100 million opportunity all by itself. So, love to
have some of those over here. We're having a lot more interest. This is the event that that
platform really has been waiting for. We had a lot -- we basically sold all we could make this last
quarter and I don't know if that will continue, because we're ramping our production now.
But we certainly saw an insurgence for hospital use and for testing use and I think there is interest
nowadays for people to take that application and take it through different clinical regulatory
needs, and we'll see. But, it's good for regulatory, it's good, it's good, it's good for clinicians, it's
good in research. It's a high-speed, multiplex immunoassay, one hour sample to data, it's
wonderful. And we keep building the panel library for it and we're able to make panels at will for
anybody. We have an open cartridge panel for people do their own work and this is important for
biopharma because they want to work a little more secretive, so they've taken it and they're
working on their own -- their own products without us really being involved. And later they'll come
back and tell us what to make for them and then it'll be buttoned up.
So, we see a big strong future for for Ella and the Simple Plex platform in general. And there's
more cartridges coming. We have varieties coming out in going smaller and smaller too, so it
could be a point of care as well. Four by eight as an example.
Q - `Dan Arias, Analyst, Stifel `
Yes, okay. And then just maybe one more, if I could stick one in here on Europe. You usually have
some pretty good views on just high-level funding. I'm curious what you think about the European
funding situation with the rise in Europe, the budget seems like it's coming out a little bit lower
than maybe they are hoping for. Is that something that you think is impactful going forward or is it
really about the portfolio over there and just being positioned right?
A - `Chuck Kummeth, Chief Executive Officer `
I think it's more about positioning and we're not that big a player, so we really haven't seen any
impact. It could be -- Simple Plex Ella is a good example that was just off the charts over there for
us, and especially in places like Italy. Right now, no concerns on funding for our products or
budgets in Europe. It's more about getting the UK back online and the rest of the countries are
really coming along just fine.
Q - `Dan Arias, Analyst, Stifel `
Yes, okay.
A - `Chuck Kummeth, Chief Executive Officer `
If anything, we need to start -- we need to get back to where we were before COVID and that
was the reorganization, the restructuring, the new commercial designs that we had for Europe in
general. We made most of those changes and they're kind of waiting for Europe to come back to
normal, so we can actually measure how we did. So places like Germany, there should be a lot
more upside. So we're looking at investing, expanding in places like Germany where we should
have more business, to be honest.Q - `Dan Arias, Analyst, Stifel `
I am 100% on board with getting back to where we were before COVID, so, good luck to all of us
on that.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Patrick Donnelly, Analyst, Citi with Citi. Please proceed with your
question.
Q - `Patrick Donnelly, Analyst, Citi `
Thanks. Chuck, maybe just on the academic market, just kind of wondering how that trended
throughout the quarter? I know you've given, in the past, some metrics like percentage of labs
that were open versus closed, in areas like the US. Anything you can kind of help us think about
exit rate and then as we can trend through this quarter, when you think about the flattish
guidance, what your expectations are for that market?
A - `Chuck Kummeth, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, well, we've read all the published stuff, just like you guys have and we're right, you know, I
think, roughly 50%, 60% percent are partially open and roughly a quarter are open and the rest
are kind of in the middle and unknown. But we are hoping for better than that, we all were, right?
So I think -- I think it's just a slow flog forward. I think there is two camps for academic labs.
There's the ones that are well funded through grants and there is ones that are funded through
the universities, and with students not coming back, or international students not coming back, I
think you're going to see some constrained budgets in some university labs, probably. I think the
grant-related labs are probably going to be fine and probably, probably it will be a great season
next year because we see nothing but improvements in funding to that end. So we just have to
kind of go work with it. You know, by definition, labs are kind of social distant, they aren't really on
top of one another, and I think labs will come on back -- will be back on back we're back on board
before really students are back at full strength, and I've read that in more than one place, so.
But, it varies by institution, so they're just not all the same, and if you're going -- if you're asking
for an answer of what's the mean of all this, they're coming back but they're coming back slower
than we'd like. And I expect that the budget situation going forward, it may be a wash, but I think
you're going to see some things better than usual and some things less, netting out to be, that's
my guess. But, you know, I don't know any more than you do on that. So we have -- we may be
better off than a lot of companies. We have a lot of products that are really kind of unique and
only ones in the world and you got to get it from us and so, they're coming back fast.
We've had, as I mentioned, a very strong start to the quarter. I don't think we're alone there, and I
think it's somewhat similar to what we saw in China. People are coming back to the labs, they
remember what they did when they turned the lights off two, three months ago and they're
reordering quicker to get their stuff back going again. And that will level off probably after the first
month or two, we think, just like it did in China. And, but you know, research isn't going away and
we're just going to have to work as best as they are coming back online.
But, you know, for academic labs to be healthy, we need students and we need all kinds of
students, including international students, and that's a big question mark right now.
Q - `Patrick Donnelly, Analyst, Citi `Yes, I appreciate that. And then maybe on the serology test, I know one of the angles you guys
had that makes your test more unique is, you can kind of play in the vaccine development and
see if vaccines are effective, if the antibodies were generated. I guess, how do you see that
opportunity playing out, again, whether it's over the next year? Are you you already in
conversations with, you know, whether it's pharma companies or whatever the end user could be
there? Can you just talk through that opportunity? Obviously, it seems like it would be pretty
significant as the the vaccine point happens.
A - `Chuck Kummeth, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, you know, serology in high volumes for the masses is different than serology for the vaccine
manufacturers. Now, they would be probably a few million dollars at least per account to be really
in their, their clinicals per se, any part of it. But a lot of ships have left their dock, right? They're in
Phase IIs and Phase IIIs, so they -- a lot of them have done their own tests. Now, they're not
scaling up something for the world, so they're probably not as focused on a monoclonal like we
were. They can use other other ways that means that they've got something to test, but it's
something they can really released to the world.
So we're in the middle of all those kinds of discussions and I think, as we get out there with the
data and the accuracy of our test, I think we're going to get more and more support and interest
from the vaccine makers. And yes, we are working with some already, but not all of them. And
we've asked pretty much all of them and that's answer we've gotten, that they would like to take
a look, but they're in the middle of stuff, obviously, and they've got big deadlines to hit with their
Phase II or Phase III in some cases, and now is not the time to be changing how they're testing. So
there is some of that.
But it was mentioned in the -- in our transcript here, that surveillance going forward is going to
become more and more important and we see a lot of that going well beyond just vaccine
manufacturers, so.
Q - `Patrick Donnelly, Analyst, Citi `
Sure.
A - `Chuck Kummeth, Chief Executive Officer `
But we got to get around the tarnish first of all the poor tests that came out in the last six months,
right? So.
Q - `Patrick Donnelly, Analyst, Citi `
Absolutely. Jim, maybe just a quick one on the capital allocation side. Obviously, uncertain times
here. How conservative do you guys want to be, or is this a time to be a little more opportunistic
on areas like M&A? Just wondering your view here.
A - `Jim Hippel, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, I think we were definitely took a more conservative approach last quarter, last quarter-and-a-
half, as the pandemic started to become more of a reality and understand how deep it was. And
we took actions to build up cash, pay down debt, so we are extremely well positioned right now,
from a balance sheet perspective and a cash flow perspective going forward, and as we've
mentioned in past calls, we're always involved in M&A discussions and looking at targets and
fielding targets, and we are currently as well. And just a matter of the right target at the rightprice at the right time. So it's not a matter of financial wherewithal or conservatism that's holding
us back.
Q - `Patrick Donnelly, Analyst, Citi `
Great, thanks Jim.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Jacob Johnson, Analyst, Stephens Inc. with Stephens. Please proceed with
your question.
Q - `Jacob Johnson, Analyst, Stephens Inc. `
Hey, thanks. Chuck, you touched on it, but maybe expanding on this, just on the GMP proteins, will
the Initial demand here be for relatively early stage therapies, or can these GMP proteins be
implemented in later stage trials, or even a commercially approved therapy? And how does the
demand for these proteins ramp as these therapies move through clinical trials and maybe what
would a commercial approval mean for you in terms of protein -- GMP protein revenues?
A - `Chuck Kummeth, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, we have one large signed customer now, we're, as I mentioned, we're in negotiation with
half a dozen others and that one would be millions and millions of dollars of proteins, just that
one. We have had inquiries for orders as large as, annually, of $10 million or more expected.
That's why there was so much pressure on us to get in the game and get going on large capacity
available proteins and GMP, because they were scared to death where they were going to get
them. And it's going to probably drive -- be one of the big drivers of just how fast the cell and
gene therapy market in general grows, is going to be the safety of these reagents. So we plan to
be, not only in the game, but the leader.
To the first part of your question, where and what kind, it will be all of the above. So, yes, we have
a real complete workflow, it's non-viral vector related and we're in pre-clinicals with a lot of
companies working in the right direction. And we think five, maybe 10 years out here, the world
will probably be non-viral vector. But there are a thousand clinicals right now that are viral vector
related and some coming out the other end here very soon, and a couple of have already, and
for them to use our proteins, they have to do and [ph]includency test of which they'll be doing,
I'm sure. And it is very possible and then it's going to come down to how well our product works
and what's the price, etc.
So we're going to get pieces of all of these markets. And I think if all our product works and
what's the price etc? So, we're going to get pieces of all of these markets and I think the -- I think
the biggest, first big upside [ph]includency test, that would be the biggest short-term upside.
Otherwise, we really got to wait for our stuff to kind of get through their clinicals with our partners
and out the other end, which is going to be two to three years, which we've talked about at
length, but we see a J-curve with this, with this factory in terms of revenue ramp and I'm sure
we'll have significant revenue next year, but it's hard to say. It will certainly be probably north of 10
million, but it will be north of 50, it's hard to say for year one, but --
Q - `Jacob Johnson, Analyst, Stephens Inc. `
Got it. That's helpful. And maybe just one other question on cell and gene therapy. You've talked
about a lot of the opportunities here. But can you talk about the application of the ACDtechnology for cell and gene therapy? It seems like this technology can be used in the viral vector
and CAR-T workflow?
A - `Chuck Kummeth, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, it's in -- it's in the workflow. I mean, it's spatial imaging, right, so we have a single cell analysis.
So at some point, you do get to look at the cells and see how things are working and RNAscope
is fantastic for that. So we're going to have plexed versions of this as well. We have our High-Plex
out now, so we see, we see a big future for the RNAscope platform being used in cell and gene
therapy as an analysis tool.
Q - `Jacob Johnson, Analyst, Stephens Inc. `
Got it. Thanks for taking the questions.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Alex Nowak, Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group with Craig-Hallum Capital Group. Please
proceed with your question.
Q - `Alex Nowak, Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group `
Great. Good morning, everyone. A lot has been asked on the serology test, but I just want to ask
a couple of clarifications. Who is going to be marketing and actually selling that serology test into
the clinical side of the market? Are you going to be using traditional diagnostic distributors for
this? And can you just give us any sort of the economics of the test back to Bio-Techne after
paying out for Mount Sinai and the distributors and such?
A - `Chuck Kummeth, Chief Executive Officer `
A lot is going to depend on what kind of real demand will happen. So as an example, we have to
convince this channel, the LabCorp, Quest, all of these different CLIA labs, to use the test. Now,
they're in the middle of using high automated systems right now from other manufacturers, but
on a less desirable test. The reimbursement on that is 42 on a single-step test, we'll be asking for
more and to get more is going to help prioritize with them. So, we're in discussions with all the
entire channel there, everyone you mentioned and more. So there are companies that manage
the hospital labs -- there is LabCorp and Quest, of course, there is a second-tier level of
LabCorps and Quests out there, there is the mail, and then there is the vaccine manufacturers in
general, so there's biotech as well as a channel for a lot of this stuff. So we're talking all of them.
And then there's governments. I mean, there are governments that are talking to us about how
to -- that are more or less social medicine type of models, that want to buy big and they want to
get in on this. So we're discussing that with some as well. So, and we're getting help. Mount Sinai
is very influential, the Kantaro group has got people on board that have a lot of experience
working in this area and these channels and dealing with the FDA, but it will be commercialized by
us, that's what we are going to do with this. The branding on the product will have R&D --
powered by R&D Systems branded on the product and what we get out of it, I've mentioned
before, we're going to be certainly be in the $5 to $10 range, we think, and us and Mount Sinai.
But the test prices will go much higher than that and they already are, they are now even a single-
step, so we'll get more than that. That should create strong interest from the -- I'll call it the
channel, so to speak. The people who are managing all those blood draws, right, that won't be
us. So.And again, Alex, we're not trying to take out Roche here. We're not very big, so I mean any -- the
traction we expect here should be very material to us.
Q - `Alex Nowak, Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group `
No, understood, I appreciate the commentary there. Just any update on more the Exosome
Diagnostics, into more of picks and shovels business as you have mentioned in the past for
partnerships, and just where do you stand in the pipeline with the bladder cancer tests and the
kidney transplant test.
A - `Chuck Kummeth, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, we're pretty far along there in the kidney rejection test. We have the first paper under
review and data is there and we're working towards that, through that process. I mean, I think
another year or so, we'll probably be into the guidelines and working the same kind of process
we did with the EPI Test. Bladder is probably following that, it's just a matter of bandwidth. We
have partnership ideas for that one as well, and there -- we're pretty far along in partnerships
discussions, both with EPI as well as the blood based versions of this test, of which we need
clinicals done, etc. And there is a global perspective too. There are different other partners that
want to really help in Europe for us, and also want to help in Asia for us.
So I would say, some things have slowed down due to the pandemic, for sure. We definitely have
taken a hit, but we're recovering faster than expected with our own urology offices in the US and I
think the at-home is going to be very instrumental in this, coming back and coming back strong
this year, and continuing the trajectory that we expect.
So this is a big platform, it's got a lot of aspects to it, it's going to take years to really get it to
mainstream but there is nothing that can beat it, we don't think so, we're on our way.
Q - `Alex Nowak, Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group `
Okay it. And then just a follow-up question to the GMP side and the whole focus on non-viral
vector. What do you need to do to win over pharma that the non-viral factor approach is the right
way that they should do this? I mean, essentially said 5, 10 years, everyone is going to be going
your way. Is it you convincing pharma, or is a pharma essentially playing trial and error, finding out
that you're method is the most optimal? What really convinces pharma to switchover?
A - `Chuck Kummeth, Chief Executive Officer `
It's data, cost, productivity. There is no doubt in anyone's mind that's tested with our platform
that it's more efficient, it's less costly, it's much more predictable and reproducible. Viral vectors
are hard to work with, it's just become a standard over the last decade, because it's all there was.
But like like everything, a lot things in the world, the first isn't always the best. The world comes
around and dreams something better. This is better, but it's going to -- were going have to get
there with data. The pre-clinicals and the work we're doing have been very successful, we're
selling a fair amount of stuff already, to be honest, and we see a bright future. But this is, as you
are well aware, this is not a an overnight kind of market, right? There has to be methodical
approach towards clinicals, and I think it's doing just fine. It will get there.
Q - `Alex Nowak, Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group `
All right. Understood Thank you. Appreciate it.Thank you. There are no further questions at this time. I'd like to turn the floor back over to
management for any closing remarks.
A - `Chuck Kummeth, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, again, it was a tough quarter by -- for us and for everyone else in the industry. We, I think we
came out we came out better than expected and we're very, we're very op -- we're very happy
with what we see so far and going forward, we see nothing but a bright future. So, we'll look
forward talking to you next quarter. Thank you,
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's web conference, you may now disconnect your
lines at this time. Thank you for your participation and have a great day.