Q4 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning and welcome to the Bio-Techne Earnings Conference Call for the Fourth Quarter
of Fiscal Year 2021. At this time, all participants have been placed in listen-only mode and the call
will be opened for questions following management's prepared remarks. During our Q&A
session, please limit yourself to one question and a follow-up. I would now like to turn the call
over to `David Clair, Senior Director Investor Relations, Bio-Techne's Senior Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Development.
Please go ahead, sir.
`David Clair, Senior Director Investor Relations `
Good morning and thank you for joining us. On the call with me this morning are `Chuck Kummeth, President and Chief Executive Officer,
Chief Executive Officer; and `Jim Hippel, EVP & Chief Financial Officer, Chief Financial Officer of Bio-Techne. Before we begin,
let me briefly cover our Safe Harbor statements. Some of the comments made during this
conference call may be considered forward-looking statements. Including beliefs and
expectations about the company's future results as well as the potential impact of the COVID-19
pandemic on our operations and financial results.
The company's 10-K for fiscal year 2020 identifies certain factors that could cause the company's
actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements made
during this call. The company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a
result of any new information or future events or developments. The 10-K, as well as the
company's other SEC filings are available on the company's website within its Investor Relations
section.
During the call non-GAAP financial measures may be used to provide information pertinent to
ongoing business performance. Tables reconciling these measures to most comparable GAAP
measures are available in the company's press release issued earlier this morning on the Bio-
Techne Corporation website at www.bio-techne.com. I will now turn the call over to Chuck.
`Chuck Kummeth, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Dave and good morning everyone. Thank you for joining us for our fourth quarter
conference call. With 39% organic growth in the quarter, the fourth quarter closed out a recordyear for Bio-Techne where we achieved 22% organic growth for the full 2021 fiscal year. The
difference a year makes, we ended fiscal 2020 on a much different note as lockdowns and
disruptions for our academic and biopharma customers took hold and changed the way research
is being conducted.
In the quarter following the initial COVID pandemic spread there has been a record level of
interest in Bio-Techne's portfolio of reagents analytical tools and services that enable researchers
to make discoveries and push science forward. With robust research demand from biopharma
end markets and expectations for a favorable government research funding environment, we
believe a multi-year research tsunami of the product. Bio-Techne is incredibly well positioned to
ride this wave.
For the second quarter in a row the Q4 growth rate was the best organic growth the company
has delivered in over 25 years both on a year-over-year and over a two year CAGR basis. The
accelerated Q4 growth was broad based across our end markets and geographies although
most of our customers experience the worst of the pandemic induced lockdowns during our
fiscal Q4 last year.
Growth within our product category was also broad based and continue to be led by our
analytical instrument platforms, Cell & Gene Therapy solutions and genomics tissue spatial
analysis tools. EMEA had a strong finish to a record year with 25% organic growth for the full fiscal
year. Given that our main distribution hub for Europe is in the UK (inaudible) was quite a distraction
with multiple supply chain and logistics surprises to conquer between the UK and mainland
Europe. The team did an excellent job navigating through this and ensuring the strong demand
from European customers was delivered.
China is a similar story. As you may recall China was the first to lockdown due to COVID and the
first to come out. Thus China for us is essentially back to business by our fiscal Q4 of last year. So
the year-over-year comps for China were tough this year compared to the US and EMEA. Yet
China delivered 30% growth for the quarter and the full fiscal year. We are very close to seeing a
$100 million of annual revenue in China, if not this coming fiscal year, most certainly the year after.
Across the company, we delivered this record quarter with a continued focus on profitability as
our operating margin expanded by over 740 basis points year-over-year. During the quarter, we
made progress, investing in the human capital necessary to position the company for its next leg
of growth although demand for talent in the life science industry remains very high.
Encouragingly some of the business practices we took for granted in the pre-pandemic world
including business travel are slowly returning but remain below normal levels. Consistent with our
results throughout fiscal 2021 the deferral of these investments accelerated our profitability
(inaudible).
Now let's discuss the performance of our growth platforms starting with the Protein Sciences
segment, where organic growth accelerated to 46% in the quarter and 24% for the full fiscal year.
During the year, we made great progress with our Cell & Gene Therapy initiative. We opened our
GMP protein facility and signed several large customers.
Going forward, we will continue to broaden our GMP portfolio with the planned introduction of
GMP grade recombinant antibodies, selling expansion media and other critical reagents. The
demand for GMP proteins is likely to expand beyond T-cell based therapies to include gene
edited natural killer cells and progenitor cells that fill the regenerative medicine therapies
workflows.All of these areas are gaining momentum and increasingly relying on our products. As evidence
of this growing interest Catamaran Bio and Bio-Techne recently broaden the scope of their
collaboration to include the development of novel cell expansion technologies for use in the
manufacture of CAR-NK cell therapy products.
Additionally Catamaran secured a broad worldwide license for TcBuster, our gene editing
platform and has integrated the technology into its tailwind platform for CAR-NK cell therapies.
Importantly, our Cell & Gene Therapy relationships such as this example are having a broader
impact throughout the company driving adoption of our media, assays, instrumentation,
antibodies and other offerings in our portfolio.
We are leveraging our digital marketing capabilities to build awareness and the customer funnel
for our expanding portfolio of Cell & Gene Therapy workflow solutions. During the quarter we
made enhancements to our website including promotional videos and additional images to more
effectively showcase our complete offering.
I would encourage all of you to visit the Cell & Gene Therapy section of Bio-Techne's website to
view a video providing a virtual tour of our state of the art GMP protein facility. Now let's discuss
the analytical instruments we sell within the Protein Sciences segment. If you would have asked
me in the past if we could grow our three main platform Simple Western Jess, Simple Plex Ella
and Biologics Maurice by 30% to 80% all year long, I would have said impossible.
What happened this past year, a number of things. First these instruments are great tool for
productivity. If labs redesign themselves around working partially from home it became more
important to increase output while in the lab, our tools are perfect for this and add a great value.
Second, proteomics based applications are on fire. Research in this area is strong and our tools
are not only the best in class and in some cases, the only type of tool you can purchase that
conducts a specific analysis.
For example simple Western is the only fully automated western blot solution in the market. The
productivity enabled by our Simple Western instrument combined with our growing installed base
has led to a significant increase in market awareness of this product. In fact, we believe this
awareness has reached a critical tipping point is almost 90% of the Simple Western instruments
sold in a quarter did not require demos.
Simple Plex continued its streak of amazing results in Q4 with our automated multiplexing
platform Ella delivering over 65% growth in the quarter as demand for neurology immunotherapy
and Cell & Gene Therapy research applications drove instruments placements and utilization
within the installed base. This result is even more impressive considering the particularly
challenging year-over-year comp LSA when the high demand for the system for COVID related
applications drove an almost 100% increase in the same quarter last year.
We took several steps to meet ongoing demand for this platform including additional shifts and
are in the initial stages of adding incremental manufacturing capacity to meet forecasted
demand. During this quarter, we announced a collaboration with India based ophthalmic health
care provider Narayana Nethralaya. For the valuation of Ella is a diagnostic tool for annualized
laser vision correction patients for post surgery complications. This is another example of the
untapped potential Ella is the clinical diagnostic platform.
We also recently announced a collaboration with PROGEN for the launch of the Simple Plex adeno
associated virus or AAV2 viral titer assay on our Ella platform. AAV2 is commonly used in gene
transduction due to its ability to infect a variety of cell types. During the viral vector productionCombining the efficiency and the reproducibility of the established AAV2 ELISAs from the
PROGEN with the convenient workflow and robust performance of the Ella platform creates an
assay with broad dynamic range along with hands-free automation to accelerate Cell & Gene
Therapy quality control process.
Our Biologics portfolio also had a very strong showing with growth of over 30% for the quarter
and the year. We are excited about the recently announced collaboration with 908 Devices where
our Maurice Biologics platform provides reproducible quantitative analysis of identity, purity and
heterogeneity profiles for therapeutic proteins will be paired with the 908 Devices' ZipChip. For
the collaboration Maurice will enable the management of molecules that have a similar charge or
isoforms and corrections of these isoforms for purification and the preparation on the ZipChip
prior to being introduced to a mass spectrometer creating a seamless sample prep workflow.
Finally, our core portfolio proteomic research reagents increased over 50% for the quarter and
nearly 20% for the fiscal year. During the fiscal year, we expanded our market-leading portfolio of
research reagents, including the addition of over 300 new research proteins to our expanding
catalog of over 6,000 protein. For antibodies biopharma is increasingly recognizing our
capabilities in immuno-oncology targets in the new cell labeling.
Now let's discuss our Genomics and Diagnostics segment, where the team delivered 22%
organic growth in the quarter and 18% for the full fiscal year. Our spatial genomics and tissue
pathology business branded ACD remained extremely strong with the team delivering over 60%
growth in the quarter. Growth was broad based within the portfolio in across geographies with
RNAscope remaining strong. Any emerging HiPlex, BaseScope and microRNA product all gaining
traction as new marketing campaigns and deeper account penetration benefitted the business.
We fortified our RNAscope offering with the introduction of the latest version of our multiplexing
spatial genomic technology HiPlex V2. This latest iteration of HiPlex adds the ability to visualize at
the 12 targets simultaneously in a formalin fixed paraffin embedded or FFPE samples and
continues to offer the flexing of up to 48 targets in fresh or freshly frozen tissue samples
available in the legacy version of the assay. FFPE is an important sample type for human samples,
especially for studying diseases. And we anticipate demand for HiPlex V2 as a tool for cancer and
neuroscience applications as well as immuno-oncology studies.
Next, our diagnostic reagents business faced large headwinds this past year with the pandemic
dramatically reducing doctor visits and in turn diagnostic controls the OEM customers. However,
this business successfully overcame these headwinds by supplying COVID related antibodies to
COVID related tests in vaccine manufacturers realizing eight consecutive quarters of positive
growth. With people returning to see their doctor again in a post-vaccination world the future is
bright for our diagnostic reagents business with a strong product in OEM pipeline.
Our Exosome Diagnostics business unit continues to make progress despite a very soft urology
market. During COVID patients were not leaving the home to do annual checkups for seeing their
urologists. This dramatically reduced their level of PSA test, the tool used by urologists to identify
a need to prescribe in ExoDx test for prostate cancer risk analysis and possible biopsy,
The market is now recovering, we have staffed up our commercial sales force and our growth is
accelerating. We also made progress on the EPI reimbursement front during the quarter following
our request for reconsideration our medicare administrative contractor National Government
Services or NGS issued an updated ExoDx Prostate Local Coverage Decision or LCD.
This updated LCD removed many of the ExoDx prostate restriction included in the original LCDs,degree relatives with prostate cancer as well as removing restrictions for patients with a
persistently elevated PSA score.
The reconsidered LCD became effective on August 1. Following the removal of these EPI or
usage restrictions the LCD better reflects the NCCN guidelines and positions the test for
improved utilization among the Medicare population. In addition to the ExoDx prostate test we
continue to advance our pipeline of innovative exosome based diagnostic test including our non-
invasive kidney transplant rejection assay ExoTRU. As a reminder, initial ExoTRU data was
published earlier this year in the Journal of the American Society of Nephrology showing a
negative predictive value of 93.3% and a positive predictive value of 86.2% which we view as
best in class performance versus the competition.
We remain on track to launch this non-invasive urine based assay later in calendar 2021 and have
held preliminary discussions with our MAC on the pathway for Medicare reimbursement. Finally,
I'd like to highlight the acquisition of Asuragen we made this past quarter, a 15-year-old
diagnostics company with strong competencies great leadership in domain knowledge and
diagnostic regulations.
They also bring kitting expertise and I like their oncology diagnostic kits, as well as a strong
portfolio of carrier screening diagnostics like Fragile X, the world's best in class test for identifying
prenatal intellectual disabilities. During the quarter, Asuragen published the results of a multi-site
evaluation study on its AmplideX PCR SMA Plus kit in the Journal of Molecular Diagnostics,
validating its performance in delivering accurate, reliable information to support carrier
identification for the diagnosis of spinal and muscular atrophy or SMA.
Asuragen's kit simplifies existing methods for identifying relevant variance in the SMN1 and SMN2
genes by identifying all variants in a single reaction. I want to be clear on our direction for
diagnostics, it is not our goal to be simply a CLIA lab service model. We prefer to sell kitted
product primarily in the oncology, neuroscience and prenatal markets. These markets have strong
growth due to strong needs as well as good margins and better than average reimbursement
levels.
Since closing the acquisition on April 6, we have made significant progress with the integration
efforts with Asuragen and are in the initial stages of building out the commercial team to increase
penetration in the largely untapped EMEA market. We have also begun a coordinated R&D and
marketing strategy to identify synergistic projects across the company especially with Exosome
Diagnostics. As we position our entire diagnostic offering to penetrate high value markets with
kitted and LDT assays.
Lastly, I'd like to give an update on the impact of our COVID-19 initiatives. Since the start of the
pandemic Bio-Techne's reagents instruments have facilitated studies has allowed the better
understanding of the virus including ACD Pro's detective virus and tissue, sales of bulk diagnostic
reagents used in COVID testing applications as well as pathogen specific antibodies and proteins
to known variance of the COVID virus. COVID was an estimated 3% tailwind to our business in Q4
and a proxy 4% tailwind for the year including revenue from sales of the Kantaro IgG antibody
serology kit.
Encouragingly there is growing interest in niche markets forming around our COVID serology
assay offerings, specifically in the tool to identify immuno compromised individuals that may not
have the antibody response following vaccination to neutralize the virus. We expect the COVID
research and Diagnostics will be around for many years particularly if new viral strains continue to
emerge making this tailwind a sustainable new layer of our product portfolio going forward.Wrapping up, we have reached the tipping point in several of our high growth businesses
including the ACD spatial genomic business and our ProteinSimple brand portfolio of proteomic
analytical tools and remain in the early innings of penetrating the nascent Cell & Gene Therapy
and liquid biopsy markets that are in front of the company.
Layer on to this a strong funding environment for our market-leading catalog of research proteins
and antibodies and the scientific knowhow that has been built around them for over the last 40
years. And I believe we are incredibly well positioned to remain one of the most innovative, high
growth, highly profitable life science tools and diagnostic companies going forward.
We are closing in on an important milestone crossing $1 billion in annual revenue and with our
existing portfolio see a pathway to double that in years to come. On that I want to remind
everyone, the Bio-Techne will be hosting an Investor Day event on September 10 in New York
City. At the meeting we plan to dive deeper into all our growth drivers and provide an update on
our long-term aspirations. We hope to see everyone there.
With that I'll hand over to Jim.
`Jim Hippel, EVP & Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Chuck. I'll provide an overview of our Q4 fiscal '21 financial performance for the total
company, provide some additional details on the performance of each of our segments and give
some thoughts on the year ahead. Given the anomaly that occurred in Q4 last year with the
pandemic induced customer lockdowns, I will also provide certain growth rates expressed as two
year CAGRs. As these are likely more representative of our mid-term underlying growth
momentum. Starting with the overall fourth quarter financial performance, adjusted EPS was $1.87
versus a $1 a year ago, an increase of 87% over last year, representing a new company record.
Foreign exchange positively impacted EPS by $0.08. GAAP EPS for the quarter was $0.37
compared to $1.48 in the prior year. The biggest driver for the decrease in GAAP EPS was
unrealized losses on our investment in ChemoCentryx this year compared to unrealized
ChemoCentryx gains in the prior year. Q4 revenue was $259 million, an increase of 47% year-
over-year on a reported basis, 39% on an organic basis and an organic CAGR of approximately
13% since Q4 of '19. Foreign exchange translation had a favorable 4% year-over-year impact and
acquisitions, also had a favorable 4% impact to revenue growth.
For the fiscal year, '21 revenue was $931 million an increase of 26% on a reported basis, 22% on
an organic basis and inorganic CAGR of approximately 13% since fiscal year '19. Foreign exchange
translation and acquisitions had a favorable year over year impact of 3% and 1% respectively.
All geographies had strong growth in Q4 led by the US growing nearly 60%, which represents a
13% CAGR since Q4 fiscal year '19 followed by EMEA with over 35% growth or two year CAGR of
15% and in China with growth north of 30% for the quarter representing a two year CAGR in the
high 20s.
The rest of the world grew almost 30%, we're at a 10% two year CAGR. Q4 of last year was the
start of the pandemic in the US with shut down severely impacting this geography. While
European customers have begun to emerge in the shutdowns and China was largely reopened in
Q4 for fiscal year '20, hence the comps in Q4 this year were easier in the US compared to China
and Europe. That being said, the two year CAGRs across the globe are impressive and illustrate
that we've emerged from the pandemic even stronger than before it started.By end market biopharma continues to be very strong growing nearly 50% while academia
growth was impacted by the shutdowns -- was most impacted by the shutdowns last year
growing nearly 60%. The two year CAGR, we believe illustrates the real relative strength with
biopharma growth nearly 20% and academia growing approximately 5% per annum over this
period.
We expect academia to continue to improve as national funding budgets get approved and
dispersed throughout the next year. Moving on to the details of the P&L, total company adjusted
gross margin was 72.5% in the quarter compared to 69.5% in the prior year. The increase was
primarily driven by volume leverage operational productivity and favorable product mix.
Adjusted SG&A in Q4 was 26.1% of revenue, a 200 basis point decrease compared to the prior
year and R&D expense in Q4 was 8% of revenue, 150 basis points lower than last year. While
adjusted SG&A and R&D spend both increased sequentially and compared to the prior year, a
tight life science labor market did not allow us to fill all planned headcount additions to the team
at the pace we originally anticipated especially in the more scientific and engineering fields.
However, our pace of hiring did increase over the course of Q4, and we plan to make additional
progress in fiscal 2022.This investment in critical human capital will position the company for
growth going forward. Additionally, Q4 was the first quarter that included Asuragen's operating
costs.
The resulting adjusted operating margin for Q4 was 38.5% an increase of 740 basis points from
the prior year and a 340 basis point improvement from Q4 over fiscal '19. For the full fiscal year
'21 adjusted operating margin was 38.9% an increase of 560 basis points from fiscal year '20 and
470 basis point improvement from fiscal year '19. Looking at our numbers below operating
income, net interest expense in Q4 was $3 million decreasing $1.4 million compared to the prior
year period. The decrease was due to a continued reduction of our bank debt during fiscal 2021
as well as lower floating rates.
Our bank debt on the balance sheet as of the end of Q4 stood at $341.3 million. Other adjusted
non-operating expense was $0.7 million for the quarter compared to $0.5 million of income in the
prior year, primarily reflecting the foreign exchange impact related to our cash pooling
arrangements. For GAAP reporting other nonoperating income includes unrealized losses from
our investment in ChemoCentryx.
Moving further down the P&L, our adjusted effective tax rate in Q4 was 20.3%, a 110 basis point
improvement over the prior year with the improvement primarily driven by geographic mix. Note
the GAAP effective tax rate in Q4 was favorably impacted by the discreet timing of stock option
exercises. As a reminder, during Q2 we made a strategic investment in China based Eminence,
the company focused on providing media as well as custom cell line development and media
formulation services to Chinese biopharmaceutical market. The $316,000 non-controlling interest
line item reflects the loss of a portion of Eminence we did not own. The impact to other lines of
the P&L as a result of consolidating Eminence was immaterial in Q4.
Turning to cash flow and return of capital, $122 million of cash was generated from operations in
the quarter, more than 170% increase over the prior year. The increase was driven by strong
working capital management while meeting our customer commitments on much higher demand.
In Q4, our net investment in capital expenditures was $12.8 million and during Q4, we returned
capital to shareholders by a way of $12.4 million in dividends. We finished Q4 with $41 million
average diluted shares outstanding. Our balance sheet finished Q4 in a very strong position was
$231.6 million in cash and short-term available for sale investments and a total leverage ratio of
well under one times EBITDA.Next, I'll discuss the performance of our reporting segments starting with the Protein Sciences
segment. Q4 reported sales were $192.3 million with reported revenue increasing 51% compared
to the prior year. Organic growth was 46% with foreign exchange having a favorable impact of
5%.
The organic CAGR since fourth quarter of fiscal year '19 was approximately 14% per annum.
Within this segment, the strong growth was very broad based in nearly all reagent, assay and
instrument platforms. Looking at two year CAGRs going back to fourth quarter of fiscal year '19
standouts in the Group would be Simple Plex with approximately 75% annual growth, Cell & Gene
Therapy with approximately 50% annual growth, with the GMP protein component growing well
over 100% annually, Biologics with approximately 25% annual growth and Simple Western with
approximately 20% annual growth.
Operating margin for the Protein Sciences segment was 46.7%, an increase of 780 basis points
year-over-year due primarily to favorable volume leverage operational productivity and cost
management.
Turning to the Diagnostics and Genomics segment. Q4 reported sales were $67.1 million with
reported revenue increasing 38%. Organic growth for the segment was 22% with acquisitions
contributing 15% and foreign exchange translation having a favorable 1% impact on revenue. The
organic CAGR since the fourth quarter of fiscal year '19 was approximately 11% per annum. ACD
branded spatial analysis portfolio together with the Exosome Diagnostics led this segment in the
quarter with two year CAGR of nearly 20% and 70% per annum respectively.
As Chuck mentioned earlier, our Diagnostics Reagents business did a very nice job executing on
booked COVID related anybody opportunities to cover for the softness in the general
diagnostics market resulting in a mid-single digit CAGR over the last two years since the fourth
quarter of fiscal '19.
Moving on to the Diagnostics and Genomics segment operating margin at 16.7% the segment's
operating margin improved 430 basis points compared to the prior year. The increase also
reflects strong volume leverage operational productivity and strong cost management across the
segment.
In summary, we finished fiscal 21 on a very strong note. Our products are clearly addressing the
current needs of the research and clinical communities we serve, providing the proteomic,
genomic and diagnostic tools necessary to drive science forward. Some of the largest
opportunities still in front of the company we believe we are just getting started, and I'm looking
forward to updating everyone on our vision for the future during our upcoming Investor Day.
In the more near term with favorable life science research funding as a tailwind, we expect the
organic growth momentum that we've experienced over the last two years to carry on in the
fiscal year '22. We look forward to see continued strength across our entire portfolio with Cell &
Gene Therapy, our analytical instrument portfolio and spatial genomic analysis tools leading the
way once again while our core reagents maintain their market leadership position and the
Exosome Diagnostic prostate test continues to ramp.
We also anticipate Asuragen to add approximately 3% growth to our top line during fiscal year '22
and begin to be accretive to our organic growth in the fourth quarter. As Chuck and I mentioned
in our prior commentary, we have recently made progress in making the investments needed to
support our future growth. But have further to go to catch up to our strategic plan and enable the
acceleration of growth in the future. Additionally, with our biopharma and academic customersreturn to pre-pandemic activities including corporate travel to normalize as fiscal year '22
progresses.
Finally Asuragen is still in the initial stages of profitability and making the investments necessary to
fully realize the synergies and global potential of this business. All these considerations taken
together, we expect our adjusted operating margin going forward to be sequentially lower
compared to our Q4 fiscal '21 results, but returning back to this level in the back half of fiscal year
'22.
That concludes my prepared comments and with that, I'll turn the call back over to Anne to open
the line for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you, sir. (Operator Instructions) We will take our first question from `Dan Arias, Analyst, Stifel Nicolaus with Stifel.
Q - `Dan Arias, Analyst, Stifel Nicolaus `
Good morning, guys, thanks for the questions. Jim, I appreciate the color there on the business.
Did I hear you give an organic growth guidance number for the year for 2022?
A - `Jim Hippel, EVP & Chief Financial Officer `
What you heard me say was that our CAGR for the past two years has been approximately 13%
and we expect that momentum to continue into fiscal year '22.
Q - `Dan Arias, Analyst, Stifel Nicolaus `
Okay. Obviously a lot of room for interpretation or just a range of outcomes for double-digit or
just expecting the CAGR to continue. Is there any way you could comment just on maybe where
the Street is? Street's looking for I think right around 15%, I hear what you're saying 13%, is the fair
assumption that's something with--
A - `Chuck Kummeth, President and Chief Executive Officer `
We'll have more commentary on Investor Day and we'll get into more specifics and break down
where things are at. But right now it's hard. We don't give guidance, we give target ranges. We
have been many years talking about 10 to 12 and numbers like that and stuff.
We're certainly at 13-ish, right now, and it could be much higher. And we certainly are over five
year target a range we're guiding higher than that and to reach our stated goal that has to be.
But we're very bullish, right now, it's just hard to look too much more than that, but by September
-- it's a good story, but as Jim said momentum continues. We don't see anything changing and
since we have been bidding quarter after quarter, maybe that's a good sign.
Q - `Dan Arias, Analyst, Stifel Nicolaus `
That's true. Okay. Maybe just a high-level question, I mean obviously you guys have a portfolio
that's pretty well positioned in a bunch of areas and you're growing in certain areas and you're
expanding capacity in certain areas. Are you able to parse out for us where in the business or,
what portion of the business do you think growth is most likely to be limited by just your own
capacity or you're still ramping capabilities versus what the customer base might bring in terms ofA - `Chuck Kummeth, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, first I'll comment. It's one thing to grow double-digit and deal with what you need to expand
because nobody does expansion for ways to double your business very quickly. You're going
increment so makes sense as you don't want to have facility empty, it's a competitive world, right.
You start growing at 20% plus and the growth rates you're seeing and you get caught. On top of
that with the shortage in talent just the whole economy at life science booming right now, funding
looking good, it's a race. So we are expanding ahead of it for now, looking for continued and
accelerated growth per our last discussion here.
And to be frank, we're virtually expanding every business we have. We don't have a single thing
we're doing that we're not behind and don't need to expand invest in, they're all doing great. We
also are not behind in it, to your question, we can meet -- I think we're there in time. We have the
capital. We have the talent. We have the consultants. We have the land. We have the buildings.
We have the supply chain figured out that we need for instrumentation. But we don't think we're
going to get caught behind and throttled in any business that we have.
Last year the one that's been the toughest has been Simple Plex right. We've been--
Q - `Dan Arias, Analyst, Stifel Nicolaus `
Yeah, that's what I was going to ask about.
A - `Chuck Kummeth, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Certainly a little under that. But 65% growth on top of 100% year earlier, that's phenomenal. Now
that one we're going to pretty much blow it out of the new building, new everything this year and
will be online in the year. So I don't predict that we'll be able to not ship every order that we have
to be honest.
Q - `Dan Arias, Analyst, Stifel Nicolaus `
Okay. I appreciate it. Thank you.
A - `Chuck Kummeth, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And that growth rate (technical difficulty) over 13% on that one.
Operator
Thank you. We take our next question from `Jacob Johnson, Analyst, Stephens with Stephens.
Q - `Jacob Johnson, Analyst, Stephens `
Hey, just one quick follow-up, not to belabor the '22 outlook, the 13% growth number you
referenced and that's an organic figure and you expect that momentum to continue plus
Asuragen's about a 3% inorganic benefit is that the way to think about it?
A - `Jim Hippel, EVP & Chief Financial Officer `
That is correct.
Q - `Jacob Johnson, Analyst, Stephens `Okay, perfect. Then maybe for Chuck, following up on your comment on Simple Plex, you seem
to be finding more and more uses for Ella. I think I heard you mentioned neurology and I think
your competitor is talking about the opportunity for the use of their instruments in screening and
testing for Alzheimer's drugs. Is that may be an opportunity you could find for Ella?
A - `Chuck Kummeth, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Absolutely, it's fast, it's microfluidic it has a incredible sensitivity. So yes, we're definitely involved
in those kinds of applications. It's a biomarker discovery tool for therapy creation, for drug
discovery, that's primarily it's used for. And now, it's morphing into all these possible clinical
applications to it, which we're working on so. It's probably the biggest sleeper we have are really
identifying all the different addressable markets and potential things we can do with it. That's why
you see the growth rates you see with it, it's just coming off the charts.
Q - `Jacob Johnson, Analyst, Stephens `
Got it. And if I could just squeeze one more in. Just Chuck, on the expansion into GMP media and
antibodies, is that something you'll implement at your existing GMP facility or is this something
that requires additional capacity? And two is this something that is contemplated kind of in the
$140 million of capacity you brought online for proteins or is this something that's additive to that
opportunity?
A - `Chuck Kummeth, President and Chief Executive Officer `
No, it's all the same discussion. We have the capability of doing roughly $40 million in revenue at
headquarter there. It just would be in smaller lots. We're GMP here, but it's my primarily research,
so therefore we built the new facility, which is open now and we're going to get started selling
out inventory qualified lots here in the coming months here. And that is $140 million to $200
million in capacity, depending on which product mix you have. It's further expandable very quickly
within six months inside the current building which we haven't used our space yet or on-site as
well.
Q - `Jacob Johnson, Analyst, Stephens `
Great, thanks for taking the questions.
Operator
Thank you. We take our next question is from `Catherine Schulte, Analyst, Baird with Baird.
Q - `Catherine Schulte, Analyst, Baird `
Hey guys, congrats on the quarter and thanks for the questions, I guess first in your core reagent
solutions division just curious what you're seeing in terms of lab activity levels, how has the
reopening varied by geography? And do you think there are still improvements to be add out
there?
A - `Chuck Kummeth, President and Chief Executive Officer `
As we mentioned last quarter, kind of probably near the end of the quarter became apparent
that we're probably back to full strength. I think there's confusion over just because people aren't
in the lab and maybe doing their analytics and their math and our paper writing at home doesn't
mean they're not back. Their experiments are ongoing and they're being productive in the labs.
And so we think we're academically back to full strength. They're just working differently. They areworking smarter, they're being a little more biopharmas. And that would be coming for both US
and Europe.
China's full on, has been for quarters. And you know we're into the next five year funding cycle in
China. And the first year we're actually going into the second year pretty soon. And that's usually
a big ramp year for China.
Q - `Catherine Schulte, Analyst, Baird `
All right. Got it. And I am just curious if you could just talk through M&A priority areas, you've done
a lot on the Diagnostics side and Cell & Gene Therapy over the last couple of years. You
mentioned in your prepared remarks proteomics being on fire from a research application area.
Are there applications like that where you'd be interested in adding on to your capabilities
through M&A?
A - `Chuck Kummeth, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, we're hunting all the time. We probably never spent the quarter with so much activity and so
little to show for it actually. We came in second and third on a lot of deals this quarter. So, as you
know, prices are high and we can be picky. We've got great number. We have got great growth.
We've got a great balance sheet and there is no sense for us to overpay or take too stupid risk
or confuse history with something too adjacent to people don't understand.
So we're being kind of true to our strategic plan and we're hunting within those guidelines and
within the math we want to find. And finding double digit ROIC on deals have been very difficult
right now. So we'll be patient and it means we're probably still leaning more towards private
deals where we can get something with a management team and investors that understand this
and want to come on board versus public auctions which are seem to be still in a friendly mode
and going too high.
We're focused on tools, probably more so than Diagnostics, I think we've got enough things
integrate now in Diagnostics and we see a great plan coming together between Exosome
Diagnostics, Asuragen and even our ACD platform. So there is a lot of growth coming there and
also the Ella applications. So we've got quite a franchise forming in Diagnostics. We probably got
to start focusing back on tools and core areas if we can find it. There just isn't enough out there
and they're going very high as you you saw by Allegion [ph] went over $5 billion. I mean that's
unbelievable. We have a comparable antibody business here that tells you something about our
valuation.
Operator
Thank you. We take our next question from `Alex Nowak, Analyst, Craig-Hallum with Craig-Hallum.
Q - `Alex Nowak, Analyst, Craig-Hallum `
Great. Good morning, everyone. Chuck going on the Diagnostics side, it seem to be a little bit of
a tone-shift with the Asuragen acquisition closing including Bio-Techne being more of a kit
diagnostics companies of the CLIA lab. Did I hear that correctly and maybe expand on what you
plan to push through the Asuragen kittable models that could include the EPI test, the Exosome
TRU test, all the Exosome tests they have in the pipeline? And then I guess the bigger picture in a
couple of years here, do you think Bio-Techne is going to have both the CLIA lab and the kittable
diagnostics model?A - `Chuck Kummeth, President and Chief Executive Officer `
You're diagnostics guy, so I know you get it and. Yeah. First of all you know they're focused on
their panel, right? Their kittable panel here with Fragile-X SMA and CF, which will be coming out
here this fall. That would be a really kind of best in class. Only thing you get in the world kind of a
panel. With that experience, of course we want to kit as much as we can get. We have a home kit
version of our EPI test right now.
We're launching that in Europe going through distribution with the kit. And we're expanding that
model and probably de-emphasizing the other CLIA side over time. But CLIA is some of your
important right now. We're doing the work. But over time it will be a mix. I don't think we'll
probably totally be ever out of CLIA. I think you need to be CLIA because that's the way to start
these tests often LDT, and I think we'll just see how the mix goes.
But I think better scale potential, I think faster acceleration exist with kitting if you can get it done.
But as you know it's a bit of art to kit and you need people in order to do it. And there is a lot of
details to get kitting successful in channel issues, which Asuragen's team are really expert at. So
they are definitely drilling over the chance to get out the Exosome portfolio to be honest. We're
just trying to hold them off until we can integrate completely. We want to make sure that we take
care of them fairly as part of the Asuragen deal first. It's all coming, you're spot on.
Q - `Alex Nowak, Analyst, Craig-Hallum `
That makes sense. And one just on ExoTRU, maybe any update on the commercialization plan
there is like a big direct sales team you need to go through a partner? And then you mentioned
the reimbursement ExoTRU and you're currently working through NGS any update if you plan on
seeking any lab to go after more of a (inaudible) or just any update on the reimbursement
progress there?
A - `Chuck Kummeth, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, with Asuragen, we have the opportunity to be in their MAC district so that's being
evaluated. We also have a site near Atlanta so we can be in the Palmetto area which has the
favorable jurisdiction here around cardiac. So we're not breaking ice there. That's also a very
strong possibility. With the numbers we've shown in our paper it's best in class. We beat
everybody out there by far as far as I can tell, there is a lot of interest. Of all the main players are
talking to us right now. And there is a potential partnership we won't do a bad partnership. So if
you see one, it will be great terms.
Otherwise we will go it. In my mind, it will be a hell of lot easier than the prostate test. Because
again these are organ transplant centers and we're not talking about a channel of 20,000
urologists. We're talking about less than 100 centers that we can deal within almost like a key
account model. We also don't have the wall of the claim over of talking docs out of doing tests
like biopsies. So it commercially should be somewhat simpler, especially a great test, a great
number.
So we've done surveys with these rejection centers or these transplant centers and they've come
back over 90% positive. They want to try out the test if they don't see what they're using today.
It's being perfect by any means and there is more improvement and what they see and
understand about the simplicity of a male n-type [ph] kittable test like we have with you and that
they want to try it. So we're pretty done.I think we had in our commentary. We expect to be out within a year or so. I think the MAC will be
easier on us too. This isn't by prostate, the cancer you will live within that diaphragm like the
perception is which is inaccurate. This is a big bad one out there with double the market size and
as you know, half of all kidneys fail on 10 years and roughly 30% fail in the first five. So it's an awful
awful conditions.
So finding something that more upstream like Exosomes can provide versus cell-free DNA to
really help that primary physician or the doctor figure out what's going on before you have
trouble is going to be really important to sustaining that organ long term for the patient.
Q - `Alex Nowak, Analyst, Craig-Hallum `
Very favorable there. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We take our next question from `Patrick Donnelly, Analyst, Citi with Citi.
Q - `Patrick Donnelly, Analyst, Citi `
Hey, thanks for taking the question guys. Chuck, I know you called out China in the prepared
remarks. I think you talked about 30% growth approaching $100 million a year. You are usually
pretty bullish on that, but how you thinking about '22 set up there again, it seems like all things
are point the right direction for you guys, but would love your take on trends there in the quarter
and then again expectations for this year?
A - `Chuck Kummeth, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I think Jim was spot on going through the analysis you providing color on a two year look-
back, not just one year, it's just such a goofy year last year. And when you look at all our numbers
on two year of pre-pandemic then you see I think still best in class results for our industry. And
China is no different so that's the near 30% high 20s for two years.
We see that consistent. We've always kind of said we expect trying to be at 25% grower. And I
guess we see no reason why not just stay with that game. And even as we get past $100 million
it's only $100 million we got a long way to go in China before we're going to take any victory laps.
And the brand is -- it's a gold standard brand, no let down there. I think if anything, we're going to
see things accelerate in China around research around our products to be honest.
There is this point of what we've mentioned that we're tipping point in our commentary, I love the
term because I think it's really accurate. Things need to get to a certain size before they get
easier to sell. And we've reached that point and a lot of our stable of unicorn's there. We've got a
dozen different platforms that are all hitting and achieving and getting over that tipping point
becoming almost similar to accelerate. So China is going to be very good at selling the whole
stable and they have been and they're going to continue. I think the number to be better going
forward.
Q - `Patrick Donnelly, Analyst, Citi `
That's helpful. And then maybe one on just the GMP order pace. You touched on a little bit, but
how is that trending relative to your expectations? I think last quarter you talked about plan to sell
out inventory by September, October, I think you touched a little bit on it earlier. But would love
just kind of the ground floor view there and expectations, how we should think about that piece?A - `Chuck Kummeth, President and Chief Executive Officer `
While we're closer and landing some more big customers aligned another one, another bigger
one, I think 145% growth in the quarter coming out of our little headquarters facility, I think is
amazing execution by the team to be honest. I don't think we've been over 100% before that,
just barely hanging around 100%, so that's like record growth.
We will start transitioning to the factory here come this fall. We're getting close right now. And
there is a lot of excitement. The product looks fabulous, it's pure, it's a lot consistency at the
volumes we're going to be able to create are going to be best class in the world. No one's going
to be able to compete with us in terms of that.
What we mean, we say get online and look at the video, you're going to see this factory and go,
wow, that's a deal closer for sure. And people are coming in are amazed. And it's going to all
come down to a quality testing and how fast we can ramp these bigger customers as they come
out the other end and there have as you know, hundreds of clinicals. It's going to take a couple of
years to get this thing really going. To be honest I think we're going to have an amazing business.
But I don't think we'll be alone. I think it's an everybody wins market here for five years, to be
honest.
Q - `Patrick Donnelly, Analyst, Citi `
Okay, got you. And maybe one last one for Jim, just on the out margin commentary. I think you
said entering '22 would be a little lower than 4Q than the second half getting back to these
levels. Can you just talk about, I guess the key levers, as we get into '22, again some of the
spend coming back. Maybe talk about the impact of Exo and then kind of the underlying
expansion as well would be great?
A - `Jim Hippel, EVP & Chief Financial Officer `
Some of the factors on the margin, first of all is the acquisition of Asuragen. For three out of four
quarters next year it will be dilutive to our overall margins to a tune of 70 basis points to 100 basis
points. So that's a big headwind inherent right there. Of course we talked about getting back in
front of our customers and business travel somewhat returning. Yes, that's a pretty hefty number
in itself in terms of the headwind. Year-over-year assuming that that activity ramps back up.
With regards to your comment on Exo, will become less dilutive going forward, but still be
dilutive. But as we continue our growth trajectory despite those headwinds in the near term and
we backed up for a second. We did hire pretty successfully here towards the end of Q4. So not
necessarily represented in our fiscal year '21 run rate, much less even the Q4 one to be honest
with you. And that will provide some headwind that you've not currently seen. So all those factors
combined, we see it in the near term margin dipping slightly.
But again because as we continue to grow in the back half of the year with the leverage we get
from that growth we see it normalizing back to Q4 level by the end of the year.
Q - `Patrick Donnelly, Analyst, Citi `
Totally agree. Thanks guys.
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We take our next question from Paul Knight with KeyBancQ - `Mike, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital `
Hey guys, it's `Mike, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital on for Paul. Just following up on Patrick's question on the operating margin
line. I guess it sounds like the Diagnostics and Genomics is going to take most of the impact with
the Asuragen. So I'm guessing Protein Sciences kind of maintains a level that you saw in 2021. Can
you kind of just talk to the dynamics between those two a little bit deeper? Thanks.
A - `Chuck Kummeth, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I will start and Jim can finish. I think that's right, and clearly our investment portfolio the one scaling
that's going to help the overall mix. But our core continues to scale and continue to find leverage
too -- I was quite frankly amazed, it's just how well we execute this year on our core.
In the past, this isn't been the kind of business model where you get as much leverage is other
manufacturing models I've been involved with, but we have found incredible productivity internally
and we have found more scale leverage than I thought possible. It's been a help in fact by, I think
as we talked about in the hiring needed and the head count shortages I think we're a little lean
there. We're catching up fast started last quarter in travel course and helped everyone.
But the fact remains even in gross margins really strong and we're finding leverage. I think it will
continue. We're all pretty well Six Sigma trained here and PPIs and thermal and every other flavor
of this productivity therapy you want to do. And we do them all here. We then talked about
coining our own version, the Bio-Techne version, because we do it. And we target an task our
teams of productivity every year and they find it and I think going forward. And maybe Jim wants
to come in for--
A - `Jim Hippel, EVP & Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, in terms of how that margin might look like by segment, actually right now, we think it might
be slightly be opposite in terms of the impact. Protein Sciences already has a very high operating
margin and a lot up hiring that were behind on to accelerate growth in Cell & Gene Therapy and
other areas as well as the instrument portfolio will be in that Protein Science segment. So it will be
more heavily impacted by the actual investments that we need to make.
And you're correct in that, the Diagnostics and Genomics segment will be impacted by the
Asuragen acquisition. But again they have the lowest overall operating margin and that's what
we've gotten the most expansion in the past with leverage. And we expect that to continue and
frankly overcome the Asuragen headwinds in that segment. So that's how we see it playing out
as of right now.
A - `Chuck Kummeth, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Don't forget that that's an 80% plus gross margin, kitting kind of model, which we understand. So
as that scales with it that will reach up and want to add some total near 40% and we're in the high
teens right now so we got a ways to go. It's come up 1,000 points in a year, but it's just starting
to hit stride and it's on roughly $90 million run rate. So we always said it would be probably at
40% above $200 million or so, and I don't see any reason to change that tone right now.
Q - `Mike, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital `
Great, very helpful. And then Chuck, just on Asuragen, it looks like it came in a little bit ahead of
expectations of what you were guiding back in Q3. So can you unpack some of the trends you
saw at the business there. Was that just organic growth within Asuragen was it some synergiesplaying out being underneath the Bio-Techne umbrella or some maybe easy comparables back in
2020?
A - `Chuck Kummeth, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, we're not breaking down division numbers anymore for competitive reasons, I would say it's
more or less on track. It wasn't really too much ahead. We've given them a lot of homework and if
anything, keeping them crawled and focused on their business and not over integrating with Exo
too fast I think has been the challenge.
They just know so much, they are so experienced. I can also tell you how good this integration
has been, out of 17 acquisitions of this has been the easiest. These guys, 15-year old company.
They all came and it was spin-off a bigger company as you know, so their financial auditable. It's
just been marvelous, this team. They're all keepers and we're working hard on doing that.
Going forward, I think why we bought them like we've done a lot of acquisitions been pretty good
and sometimes clever and we can some things just before that inflection point up and these guys
are not different. They've been working on this SMA and cystic fibrosis for a while and they're
launching. So over the coming years they would launch, I would expect there'll be some
accelerated growth and that's what we're hoping for it, that's why we bought them among other
things.
Q - `Mike, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital `
Great, thanks for the time guys.
Operator
Thank you. And as we have no further questions in the queue, I would like to turn the call back
over for any additional and closing remarks.
A - `Chuck Kummeth, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Well thanks everyone. It was a year we're all happy is behind us in a lot of ways, but
business wise we're quite happy with the results and that we're able to execute and provide the
world with a lot of badly needed things this past year with the problems we've all faced.
We are ready to go in the future, we're investing, we're catching up in terms of headcount, the
numbers look pretty good, the momentum as Jim has said is stable. And we seen no reason to
change our tone. And we'll give you more transparency when you all show up in New York on the
10th. Thanks a lot. Bye.
Operator
Thank you. That will conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation, ladies and
gentlemen, you may now disconnect.