Q4 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning and welcome to the Bio-Techne Earnings Conference Call for the Fourth Quarter
of Fiscal Year 2024.
At this time, all the participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the call will be open
for questions following management's prepared remarks. During our Q&A session, please limit
yourself to one question and one follow-up.
I would now like to turn the call over to `David Clair, Vice President, Investor Relations & Corporate, Bio-Techne's Vice President of Investor
Relations.
`David Clair, Vice President, Investor Relations & Corporate `
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On the call with me this morning are `Kim Kelderman, President and Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Executive Officer; and
Jim Hippel, Chief Financial Officer of Bio-Techne.
Before we begin, let me briefly cover our safe harbor statement. Some of the comments made
during this conference call may be considered forward-looking statements, including beliefs and
expectations about the company's future results. The company's 10-K for fiscal year 2023
identifies certain factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from
those projected in the forward-looking statements made during this call. The company does not
undertake to update any forward-looking statements because of any new information or future
events or developments. The 10-K, as well as the company's other SEC filings, are available on
the company's website within its Investor Relations section.
During the call, non-GAAP financial measures may be used to provide information pertinent to
ongoing business performance. Tables reconciling these measures to most comparable GAAPmeasures are available in the company's press release issued earlier this morning on the Investor
Relations section of the Bio-Techne Corporation website at www.bio-techne.com.
Separately, in the coming weeks, we will be participating in the Morgan Stanley, Wells Fargo and
Baird conferences. We look forward to connecting with many of you at these upcoming events.
I will now turn the call over to Kim.
`Kim Kelderman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Dave, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us for our fourth quarter
conference call.
I'm pleased to report that our fourth quarter results came in in line with our initial expectations.
Continued stabilization of our end markets, combined with excellent execution by the Bio-Techne
team led to a 1% year-over-year organic revenue growth.
This quarter wraps up our fiscal 2024, where our core portfolio of research and diagnostic
reagents, together with the four growth verticals that leverage this content, delivered a 1%
growth in what has proven to be a challenging fiscal year. It's worth noting that these growth
verticals have enabled Bio-Techne to consistently outperform our peer group during this
unprecedented post-COVID pandemic period.
During this period, we experienced a challenging funding environment for biotech and a
significant R&D budget recalibration by large pharma and academia customers. Let me give you
some examples of the business dynamics we've experienced throughout our fiscal year. First, a
proteomics analytical franchise branded protein, Simple. This business provides productivity tools
for laboratories, commonly used to expand laboratory capacity. However, these products are also
well-positioned for customers that are operating under constrained budgets and are looking to
replace manual processes with simple and effective automation.
Here we saw a mid-single-digit growth for the fiscal year led by Simple Plex and Simple Western
platforms, bolstered by double-digit growth for our instrument-related consumables across all
platforms.
Our cell and gene therapy vertical, which is led by our quality GMP protein products, also grew
mid-single-digits for the year and added more customers, even while biotech funding had a
multiyear low. In our spatial biology vertical, we saw solid growth in fiscal year 2024, despite the
budget re-sets by our pharma customers.
Our new spatial biology instrument, COMET, is seeing a robust adoption and will bring
accelerated growth to this vertical in the years ahead. And last, the ongoing traction and market
adoption of our ExoDx Prostate Test, together with new product launches within our surging
franchise, drove double-digit growth in our molecular diagnostics growth vertical all year long.
It is these four growth verticals that have carried us through the challenging post-COVID
pandemic market slowdown, and we are confident that these same verticals will drive
accelerated growth as our core market and our core portfolio of core reagents gradually recover
back to long-term historical growth rate.
Over the last 48 years, we have amassed the core portfolio of research reagents and diagnostic
tools, which include a catalog of over 6,000 proteins and 400,000 antibody types. These
products are critical components to many foundational workflows in virtually all life scienceacademic and biopharma research labs globally. Not only do the reagents unlock the power of
scientific discovery, they are also the synergistic force behind our core growth verticals.
The five-year CAGR for these growth verticals is over 20%. They accounted for about 45% of Bio-
Techne's revenue in fiscal 2024, which is significantly higher than the 30% of revenue in fiscal
2019, and that's only five years ago.
Before we get into the details of the most recent quarter, I'd like to officially welcome Dr.Judith
Klimovsky to Bio-Techne's Board of Directors. Dr.Klimovsky is currently the Executive Vice
President and Chief Development Officer at Genmab. She brings significantly end market,
scientific and international experience to Bio-Techne Board. Dr.Klimovsky's insight and guidance
will be very beneficial as we continue to execute our strategy and expand globally. Welcome to
our Board, Judith.
Now let's start with a discussion of our end markets and geographies, beginning with the
biopharma end market where we saw continued stabilization from our biopharma customers.
Overall, biopharma declined low-single-digits in the quarter, but it was relatively consistent on a
sequential basis. There is a broad awareness that biotech funding has been stronger for the first
half of the calendar year, which is good news after a very challenging 2023. We anticipate that
this recovery will bring incremental confidence to the capital dependent companies and that this
will eventually drive increased demand for our portfolio of life science products in the coming
quarters.
Academia decreased low-single-digits in the quarter, reflecting a particularly challenging
comparison with the same period last year during which revenue increased upper-single-digits.
From a geographic perspective, North America and Europe both declined low-single-digits in the
quarter, reflecting the aforementioned constraints in biopharma and academic end markets.
Although it is worth noting that Europe had particularly difficult comparables in that it had double-
digit growth in the fourth quarter last year.
For China, the stabilization trend that we have experienced over the past several quarters
fortunately continued into Q4. As China progressesed through a recovery process, we would
expect our portfolio of research reagents to be in first to return to growth, followed by our
instrument portfolio. This prognosis is strengthened by the fact that our team in China delivered
their second consecutive quarter of double-digit growth for our core reagent portfolio. This
performance was paired with mid-single-digit growth in our biologics portfolio, which consists
primarily of the Maurice family of instruments and associated consumables.
Overall, China declined high-single-digits in the fourth quarter, which was in line with our
expectation that last year's stimulus resulted in a comp of mid-teens growth for this geography in
last year's Q4. While the impact of the recently announced stimulus will likely not translate into
revenue growth for the region until the second half of our fiscal year, we are encouraged by the
overall stabilization in this region and the early return of the growth to our reagent.
Now let's discuss our growth pillars in more detail, starting with ProteinSimple Instrumentation
within the Protein Sciences segment, where overall organic growth was low-single-digit for the
quarter. As mentioned, robust utilization of these productivity tools drove double-digit
consumable growth. It's worth highlighting that our Q4 is the seventh consecutive quarter in which
the consumables related to our instruments grew at least double-digits, which indicates strong
utilization of our global installed base.A protein analysis instrument provides automation, precision, reproducibility and labor savings,
which makes them increasingly ingrained in both academic and biopharma workflows. Our
automated multiplexing immunoassay instrument named Ella was a standout performer within the
ProteinSimple portfolio, as both the instrument and the related consumables increased double-
digits in the quarter. Ella is quickly becoming the go-to platform for cell and gene therapy
customers for viral titer and release testing. Ella also is seeing rapid adoption among CROs
looking for high reproducibility paired with high sensitivity in an easy-to-use, fully-automated
immunoassay platform.
Related to immunoassay technology, we recently announced an investment in Spear Bio's Series
A funding grant. Spear Bio is an innovation leader in the development and manufacture of ultra-
sensitive immunoassay, capable of measuring protein markers at attomolar levels from sub-
microliter sample volumes. Spear Bio's assays run on qPCR equipment, which is routinely found in
research and clinical facilities, therewith tapping into a very broad existing installed base. Spear
Bio's initial assay will focus on key biomarkers supporting translational research in Alzheimer's
disease.
Within our ProteinSimple franchise, we also recently announced the latest addition to our Simple
Western platforms called Leo. As a reminder, our Simple Western platforms automate the
manual, laborious, cumbersome, time-consuming and inconsistent western blotting process that
is commonly used to identify proteins in complex mixtures.
RUO is the highest throughput automated western blot system, enabling the simultaneous
analysis up to 100 samples in a single 3-hour run. We are excited to introduce this next-
generation system, which is expected to begin shipping in the second half of our fiscal year '25.
We remain the only fully automated western blot technology provider on the market and see a
long runway for the future growth with this portfolio as our current market penetration is below
30%.
Like our other infant platforms, Simple Western continues to gain traction in cell and gene therapy
applications as the system is increasingly used for absolute protein quantitation and relative
potency assay. For example, Regulus Therapeutics recently reported positive top-line data from
the second cohort of patients in its Phase 1b study related to the treatment of a kidney disease
called ADPKD. Regulus utilized our Simple Western platform to develop high-performance
biomarker assays to measure various proteins, the urease, as part of this study. We look forward
to working with Regulus, and of course, with all our other partners to further the advancement of
cell and gene therapy.
I'll now shift to the other growth pillars within our Protein Sciences segment, our own cell and
gene therapy business unit. This growth verticals includes a proteomic reagent and scalable
workflow solutions that enable our customers to accelerate pre-clinical, clinical and eventually to
commercialization of these next-generation therapeutics. As we've mentioned in the past, order
timing from large customers can create quarter-to-quarter lumpiness in our GMP proteins
business, and that was indeed the case in our Q4.
As a sign of underlying strength, however, we are pleased to see continued growth in the
number of customers utilizing our highly active GMP proteins. We will continue to actively seed the
market to ensure we partner with our customers early in their development journey.
Within our GMP reagents offering, we continue to drive significant growth within our GMP small
molecules business. These small molecules are key components in the reprogramming, self-
renewal, storage and differentiation processes that are key to regenerative medicine workflows.We are making good progress with our new GMP facility in Bristol, U.K., which positions as well to
meet current and forecasted demand for those critical reagents. This small molecule business
grew nearly 50% for the quarter and is quickly becoming a material contributor to our overall cell
and gene therapy results.
In total, our Protein Sciences segment declined 3% organically for the quarter and declined 2% for
the fiscal year. Remember that our Protein Sciences segment is where we have the most
exposure to both China and the biopharma end market and that this segment is positioned to
see the most significant improvement as these end markets start to recover.
Now let's discuss the growth pillars in our Diagnostics and Genomics segment, where organic
revenue grew by 9% in the quarter and 6% for the full fiscal year.
Our molecular diagnostics growth pillar performed exceptionally well as organic revenue growth
topped 20%. The value proposition of our ExoDx Prostate Test continues to resonate with both
patients and physicians. The test provides critical information to men with a gray zone PSA score
on whether to proceed or not to proceed with an invasive and potentially dangerous prostate
biopsy. During Q4, ExoDx Prostate volumes increased by almost 35%. We are seeing momentum
across the various KPIs we track for our ExoDx Prostate Test, including a 30% sequential increase
in the number of physicians ordering '25 or more ExoDx Prostate Tests per quarter.
Rounding out the molecular diagnostics business, the Asuragen brand delivered another strong
quarter as the sensitivity and specificity of our proprietary assay chemistry drives global adoption
of our carrier screening as well as our oncology kit. This led to mid-teens overall growth for the
business, and we continue to advance innovative molecular diagnostic products through our
pipeline and are looking forward to the launch of our exosome-based ESR1 mutation kit for breast
cancer monitoring, as well as the expanded carrier screening assay in the coming months.
Now let's discuss our spatial biology growth pillar, where once again, demand for a fully
automated, high-throughput, hyperplexed spatial biology platform called COMET, outpaced our
manufacturing capacity in the quarter. The cross-organizational manufacturing team continues to
implement production process improvements and is making good progress scaling capacity to
meet current and forecasted COMET demand.
During the quarter, we enabled RNA detection and visualization on COMET with the launch of
RNAscope HiPlex capabilities for the instrument. Following this launch, COMET is now capable of
detecting and visualizing up to 24 proteins and 12 RNA targets simultaneously, creating a highly
differentiated multi-omic system for the rapidly growing spatial biology market. These enhanced
capabilities are in the hands of our initial set of key opinion leaders and will be rolling out across
our installed base over the coming months.
In summary, the team delivered another solid quarter and another solid fiscal year in these
challenging funding environments. As our end markets equilibrate back to a non-pandemic
environment, we are well-positioned to reinvigorate growth across our portfolio of core research
reagents and continue the momentum across our four growth verticals. I'm extremely proud of
the execution by the Bio-Techne team in these stabilizing, but still challenging end markets. I'm
also confident in our ability to deliver differentiated financial performance as our end markets
progress through the recovery process.
And with that, I'll turn the call over to Jim. Jim?
`James Jim T. Hippel, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `Thanks, Kim. I'll start with some additional detail on our Q4 and fiscal 2024 financial performance
and then give some thoughts on the financial outlook for the year ahead.
Starting with the overall fourth quarter financial performance. Adjusted EPS was $0.49 compared
to $0.55 in the prior-year quarter, with foreign exchange having a material impact on EPS. GAAP
EPS for the quarter was $0.25 compared to $0.47 in the prior year. Q4 revenue was $306.1 million,
an increase of 2% year-over-year on a reported basis and a 1% increase on an organic basis.
Acquisitions contributed 1% to reported growth. The full fiscal year 2024 revenue approached $1.2
billion, and organic growth was comparable to what we saw in the fourth quarter.
Looking at organic growth by region and end market. In Q4, North America and Europe
decreased low-single-digits year-over-year, while China decreased high-single-digits. APAC
outside of China increased low-double-digits overall, with Japan and Australia both benefiting
from growth in cell and gene therapy and regional expansion of our Asuragen portfolio,
respectfully, while lower government funding and macro constraints continue to impact South
Korea.
By end market in Q4, excluding China, both biopharma and academia declined low-single-digits in
the quarter. As Kim previously mentioned, we continue to see sequential global stability in our
biopharma end market and academia faced tougher year-over-year comps this quarter.
Below revenue on the P&L, total company adjusted gross margin was 71.1% in the quarter,
compared to 71.6% in the same quarter of the prior year, driven by the impact of the Lunaphore
acquisition and unfavorable product mix, partially offset by productivity initiatives.
Adjusted SG&A in Q4 was 29.8% of revenue, compared to 26.8% in the prior year, while R&D
expense in Q4 was 7.8% of revenue, consistent with the prior year. The increase in SG&A was
driven primarily by the Lunaphore acquisition, as well as the quarterly timing of the annual
incentive compensation accruals. Adjusted operating margin for Q4 was 33.5%, a decrease of
360 basis points from the prior-year period, but an increase of 50 basis points sequentially.
Excluding the Lunaphore acquisition, which closed at the beginning of Q1, adjusted operating
margin was 120 basis points lower than the prior year, due to the impact of unfavorable volume
leverage and product mix.
Looking at our numbers below operating income, net interest expense in Q4 was $1.5 million,
decreasing $1 million compared to the prior-year period due to lower debt levels.
Our bank debt on the balance sheet as of the end of Q4 stood at $319 million, a decrease of $70
million compared to last quarter. Other adjusted non-operating income was $0.5 million in the
quarter, an increase of $0.6 million compared to the prior year, primarily reflecting our 20% share
of Wilson Wolf adjusted net income, partially offset by the foreign exchange impact related to our
cash pooling arrangements.
Moving further down the P&L, our adjusted effective tax rate in Q4 was 22%, consistent
throughout fiscal '24, but up 200 basis points compared to the prior year due to geographic mix.
Turning to cash flow and return of capital. $75.5 million of cash was generated from operations in
the quarter, and our net investment in capital expenditures was $18 million. Also, during Q4, we
returned capital to shareholders by way of $12.6 million in dividends.
We finished the quarter with 160.7 million average diluted shares outstanding. Our balance sheet
finished Q4 in a strong position with $151.8 million in cash, and our total leverage ratio remainswell below 1x EBITDA. Going forward, M&A remains a top priority for capital allocation.
Now let's discuss the performance of our reporting segment, starting with the Protein Sciences
segment, where Q4 reported sales were $214 million, which reported revenue decreasing 4%
compared to the prior-year period.
As discussed in last quarter's call, on a strategic review of our portfolio, we have decided to
divest the fetal bovine serum, or FBS, business. FBS is approximately $10 million annual revenue
business with an operating margin profile and long-term growth rate below the company
average. The exclusion of FBS unfavorably impacted reported segment revenue growth by 1%.
Thus, organic revenue for the segment decreased 3%.
As a reminder, it is our Protein Sciences segment that has the most exposure to the China
geographic region, as well as to the biotech end market. Operating margin for the Protein
Sciences segment was 43%, a decrease of 170 basis points compared to the prior-year quarter,
as unfavorable volume and product mix were partially offset by cost management and structural
alignment initiatives.
Now turning to the Diagnostics and Genomics segment. Q4 sales were $90.7 million, with
reported growth increasing 15% compared to the same quarter last year. Organic revenue
growth for the segment was 9%, with the Lunaphore acquisition having a 6% impact. Unreferred
diagnostics growth vertical once again led segment growth.
Moving on to the Diagnostics and Genomics segment operating margin, at 12.5%. The segment's
operating margin decreased compared to the prior year's 18.5%, due primarily to the impact of
the Lunaphore acquisition. Excluding Lunaphore, the segment's operating margin would have
been over 20%. Diagnostics and Genomics steadily improved operating margins throughout fiscal
'24, benefiting from the integration of Lunaphore and sequentially increasing volume leverage.
The segment's operating margin improved 320 basis points sequentially from Q3, and improved
from nearly breakeven operating margin at the beginning of the year in Q1.
In summary, as we reflect on this past fiscal year, it has really been a multi-year unwinding of a
massive investment that occurred in our industry and end markets during the COVID pandemic.
We are pleased that our strategic portfolio positioning, together with the resilient execution by
our 3,100 employees, has enabled Bio-Techne's annual revenue to be higher today than it was
before the unwinding began. We are encouraged that the past two quarters of sequential
stabilization in our end markets suggest that the unwinding is largely behind us.
Now, our industry waits for a return to normalized market growth, which for life sciences we
believe is mid-single-digit growth over the long-term. How long it will take for this recovery to
happen is a challenge for anyone to predict. But there are indications that a gradual recovery in
the back half of calendar year 2024 and throughout calendar 2025 is a real possibility. These
indications include the following.
OEM customer destocking appears to have abated. Biotech funding in the first half of calendar
year 2024 has improved significantly from 2023 levels. Large pharma customers may have
completed the realignment of their R&D pipeline priorities by the end of calendar 2024, but the
pandemic now in the rear view mirror, and the implications of new pharma industry-specific
government regulation, better understood. And finally, the China region should realize a lift in
instrument growth at the start of calendar 2025, due to government stimulus that has been
announced.As our end markets gradually recover, we believe that Bio-Techne's relative revenue growth,
outperformance will also continue. Value proposition that our proteomic analysis platforms have
demonstrated to our customers during this downturn has resonated in strong instrument-based
consumer growth the past two years, and by our calculation, there is pent-up demand and
needed capacity for more instruments.
Our cell and gene therapy offering has demonstrated value proposition by adding new
customers throughout the past two years, even when new biotech funding has been drastically
reduced.
Our spatial biology growth vertical now has an automated solution that is unmatched in its speed
and multi-omic capabilities that will also pull through larger quantities of our gold standard
RNAscope and antibody reagents. And last but not least, our molecular diagnostics growth
vertical is already in growth acceleration mode as its unique and underpenetrated portfolio of
products continues to take market share. Thus, the gradual road to end market recovery over the
next 18 months, together with our expectation for continued outperformance, forms our baseline
case for Bio-Techne's organic revenue growth in fiscal '25.
Our current momentum suggests low-single-digit growth in the first half of the year, with the
possibility of mid-single-digit growth once the higher biotech funding returns into biotech
spending. Our organic growth could gradually accelerate to the high-single-digits in the second
half of the year as Chinese stimulus funds are released and assuming large pharma budgets are
normalized for the calendar year 2025.
As we look to adjust the operating margin for the year ahead, we intend to fund all new
investments with productivity initiatives and cover inflation with pricing actions, allowing the
anticipated volume leverage to drop through the bottom-line. However, following a year of
missed incentive compensation targets, there will need to be a reinstatement of incentive
compensation accruals for both bonuses and sales commissions.
The impact of this reinstatement will create an approximate 100 basis point headwind to fiscal
year '25's full year adjusted operating margin and more severely impact the first half of the year
than the back half. Thus, we expect first half adjusted operating margin for fiscal year '25 to be
approximately 200 to 300 basis points lower than prior year, and the second half margin to be
approximately 100 to 200 basis points higher than the prior year.
First half of the year, we'll have margin headwinds related to the incentive compensation
reinstatement as well as continued negative product mix, while the second half margin should
benefit from greater revenue volume leverage, planned productivity initiatives, and improving
product mix. Assuming the indicators that we are all seeing are correct, fiscal year '25 should be
the year of gradual recovery for our end markets, and with it, allow us to exit the year poised for
double-digit growth in a multi-year run towards adjusted operating margins over 35% as per our
long-term objectives.
That concludes my prepared comments, and with that, I'll turn the call back over to the operator
to open the line for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)(Operator Instructions). We'll take our first question from `Puneet Souda, Leerink Partners with Leerink Partners. Your
line is open.
Q - `Puneet Souda, Leerink Partners `
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. I'm just wondering if you can elaborate a bit on the RU
antibodies and cytokines in the quarter. How did that fare? And also it seems that your
instrumentation portfolio is still holding up while your attached consumables are growing with that
instrumentation portfolio. Maybe just help us understand the instrumentation dynamic a bit,
because when we look at the peers, the instrumentations have been weaker, but it just seems
like there's a bit more demand. Maybe a part of that is Lunaphore, just if you could help clarify the
instrumentation as well on that end as well.
A - `Kim Kelderman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, Puneet, good morning. Thanks for your question. Let me start with the instrument question
that you asked. Yes, like most others, our instrumentation growth rates have been under
pressure in the end markets as we know them, specifically China and biopharma being
constrained.
But we are also proud to mention that the consumables directly related to these instruments
have been growing double-digits now seven quarters in a row. So we are very confident that the
installed base is getting utilized optimally and that we are filling up capacity that we have in the
installed base. And there with funding coming back in, we are pretty certain that there will be a
drive to get increased capacity in the field, and that will drive our instrumentation numbers.
Your question on the RU antibodies, it's been -- obviously, the dynamics with the different end
markets swinging a little bit and in a bottoming out process, and that makes it a lumpy business.
Overall, we are looking carefully at all the different product lines. And we see some lumpiness
quarter-over-quarter, but nothing that we are alerted about, and we feel overall that that
portfolio is nicely positioned.
Q - `Puneet Souda, Leerink Partners `
Okay. Thanks. And then, Jim, just clarifying the comments on fiscal year '25, does this mean a mid
to high-single-digit overall for 2025 and an exit rate in the fourth quarter of '25 of low-double-
digit? Just wanted to make sure I was clear on that for organic growth.
A - `James Jim T. Hippel, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, as I said, I've given some guidance on how I think the year will progress based off of a
baseline market expectation, net baseline market expectations for a very gradual improvement in
our end markets. I don't think we see anything immediately that would suggest an improvement
in our end markets in the very near-term, but I think by the end of the year, we're hoping that we
start to see some uplift with biotech given the increased funding that we've seen so far year-to-
date, that should turn to spending.
And then to continue to 2025, you have the Chinese stimulus starting to kick in and pharma
budgets being reset. So that's kind of a gradual progression of the growth rates as we see it and
that's what I've outlined in my prepared comments. And how fast that progression happens or
how slow it happens will depend on what the full year number ends up being.
OperatorOur next question comes from `Jacob Johnson, Stephens with Stephens. Your line is open.
Q - `Jacob Johnson, Stephens `
Hey. Thanks. Good morning. Maybe, Jim, sticking on the guidance theme, I heard some
headwinds on the margin side in the first half of the year due to incentive comp, et cetera. It
sounds like maybe a little bit better in the back half of the year, but still we're looking at operating
margins in FY '24 that are well below where you'd been historically. I know some of that's related
to acquisitions. I guess as we think about returning to growth in the back part of this year, how
should we think about incremental margins as growth picks up again? And then I heard 35% plus.
But at times we've seen a 40% target longer-term. Is there any reason you couldn't get back to
40% over time with the caveat of M&A can always be dilutive to margins?
A - `James Jim T. Hippel, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Thanks for the question, Jacob. So just to reiterate, from a margin perspective, we do have a
significant headwind with the incentive compensation, accrual restatements across the entire
company, and it's about 100 basis points. So without that headwind, we would be talking about
some incremental margin improvement this year. That being said, we do see a line of sight
assuming the growth rates accelerate throughout the year.
We do see line of sight to adjusted operating margins being 100 to 200 basis points higher than
we ended this year, which would end us in the year somewhere in the mid-30s. My comment
around -- 35% was actually greater than 35%. So it was really the message that we see that, this
year is a year of recovery that would set us up very nicely to get back to our long-term growth
objectives, which is north of 35% operating margin, up to 40%, of course, that's the range we've
always stated, and back on track to our long-term growth plans. That was the main message
behind that comment.
Q - `Jacob Johnson, Stephens `
Got it. Makes sense. Thanks for that, Jim. And then, Kim, maybe -- Jim mentioned getting back to
double-digit growth. Maybe just to revisit the 2023 Investor Day and the potential for growth well
into the double digits, you talked about your four key growth franchises earlier and the traction
there, and obviously, those are key to more robust levels of growth when the macro normalizes.
I'm just curious, a year later after that Investor Day, are there any of those kind of four platforms
where you're more confident in the growth outlook? And then on the flip side, any of those pillars
where maybe you have more restrained expectations?
A - `Kim Kelderman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thank you, Jacob. That's a good question. It is quite -- I must say, quite comforting that, we
look at these four growth verticals very carefully because those are also areas where investment
dollars flow in and our activity level is very high. And then we continuously look at our progress
there, but also the competitive landscape. And you take that all together, and we're still very
committed to each and every one of those, yes, we feel that we have really differentiated
positions with wonderful symbiosis between those four growth verticals and the core reagents
where each of these growth verticals pulls through our core reagents at very high margins, and
we have very differentiated positions in the market. So we're still very confident about it.
The difference that you could -- you would ask is like, so what is the difference between now and
a year and a half ago? And that's obviously that the end markets have slowed since and that the
question is not so much will we get to the numbers that we at that time projected, but thequestion is, when do you get to those numbers? And that time frame is likely delayed. So in five-
year forecasts, you always think about a couple of mediocre years, a couple of good years, a
couple of bad years. Unfortunately, now we had a couple of lackluster years behind us. So
hopefully those are the system and we're still on track, but it could well be that that takes a little
longer and then you would have to think about delaying the $2 billion mark. But whether we get
there is not the question, and we're really confident with our platforms.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Dan Arias, Stifel with Stifel. Your line is open.
Q - `Dan Arias, Stifel `
Hey, good morning, guys. Thanks for the questions here. Jim, just looking at the model, can you
may be true us up on where GMP reagent revenue finished for the year and then what you think a
good starting point on growth might be for this year? New products, I believe, but still recovering
customer spending. So what do you think that translates to for 2025, just given the importance
there to the growth algorithm?
A - `James Jim T. Hippel, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Thanks for the question, Dan. Overall, GMP revenue growth for fiscal year '24 did grow. We
did have growth overall for the year, even though it was choppy, which is a positive sign in a very
tough year. And so we expect those growth rates to increase, obviously, in an improving market.
So that's essentially what's been baked into the forward guidance.
Q - `Dan Arias, Stifel `
Okay. But is there any way you can kind of like give us a number to work with as a jumping off
point?
A - `James Jim T. Hippel, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, I'd say this, we grew roughly mid-single-digit for the year, for the full year in '24.
Q - `Dan Arias, Stifel `
Okay. And then maybe just as a follow-up on the outlook and the growth that the company is
capable of here, one of the things that you usually talk about when it comes to forecasting is this
idea that Bio-Techne has historically and consistently been 500 to 1,000 basis points above
peers on organic. To what extent do you think that that logic applies in 2025, if we just think about
the assumptions on market growth that are implied there?
A - `James Jim T. Hippel, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
I mean, we're sticking with that guidance, right? And I think this quarter is yet another testament
to it. By our calculations, our peer group in total shrank roughly about 4% Puneet's quarter and we
grew 1%. And so kind of back to the question in terms of that getting back to double-digit growth,
we are absolutely confident that when the market gets back to mid-single-digit growth, we will be
at double-digit. And so trying to predict when that full market recovery happens is difficult to do.
But I think we're trying to be more conservative in a slower pace of recovery that 2025 as a
calendar year will be a year of recovery, and it might take that full calendar year to get there,
which is why we're being a bit conservative on the fiscal basis in June. But we've been hearingfrom our peers also that bioproduction is looking to recover here perhaps a bit sooner, which
might be the first bit of jolt that the industry needs to kind of get going again, too. So, again, I
think there's a lot of positive signs. We called them green shoots last quarter. I think there's still
green shoots this quarter, they just haven't quite sprouted yet.
I'll also point out that we have some company-specific activities that will help our growth rate as
well. We have obviously the Lunaphore, COMET launch that is happening, gives us multi-omic
capabilities, so that should be an upside for growth. And then we have our RUO instrument that
Kim talked about in our ProteinSimple franchise, which has already gained a lot of interest from
customers since we announced that future release. So between our company-specific activities
and the market improving, we're feeling pretty good about next year, but we're just being very
conservative around the pace of market recovery as I think everyone else is on our peer side.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Dan Leonard, UBS with UBS. Your line is open.
Q - `Dan Leonard, UBS `
Thank you. I have a question on your RUO reagent product line. Is there anything you could do to
accelerate growth there independent of market improvement?
A - `Kim Kelderman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks for the question. The linkage to the growth platform is key there. Some of the RUO
reagents fit nicely in the pull-through. As you know that, we now have enabled, for example, the
COMET instrument to utilize our Bio-Techne antibodies that sit in the RUO reagent, and those
mechanisms will start pulling through the core. Of course, the core goes to market itself, but that
is a lackluster end market.
Now we can also think about how do you get through that better than others, and that's by
continuing to improve and solidify our marketplace as well. So the marketplace, making sure that
it's easy to transact with Bio-Techne, making sure that our website is in great shape, combine that
with the vertical platforms pulling through those reagents, is the secret sauce there. And
fortunately, in parts of the portfolio that is already working because some of the RUO product
lines are already in the black. Thanks for the question.
Q - `Dan Leonard, UBS `
Got it. Appreciate that. And, Kim, correct me if I'm wrong, but it seems like your spatial portfolio is
less subject to macro headwinds. Could you size that portfolio in aggregate at this point and how
fast do you think it grows in '25?
A - `Kim Kelderman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So fortunately, we've seen some resilience in that portfolio, but I wouldn't say it's immune,
right? So there are still larger pharma customers that would have a run rate of $1 million or more if
it comes to quarterly usage of some of our reagents. And there is shuffling going on in that end
market, in which sometimes programs get closed or sometimes locations get consolidated. Now,
overall, I don't think that will have a long-term effect on the need of spatial biology. I'm very
confident that will be there, but the shuffling in the interim could result in some lumpiness.
Overall, the run rate of that business is now at $120 million and we see double-digit growth in the
coming years, especially because we're nicely combining an instrument, top-notch instrument inthe market, that can pull-through our RNAscope reagents, as well as our antibodies. And right
now, that instrument is running a product through just short of $50,000 a quarter. And once we
got all our reagents linked to it, we feel that that pull-through could double, and there we've
become our highest pull-through instrument. So I'm very confident this is going to be a very
positive product line for us and a positive effect on our company.
Operator
Our next question comes from Tom DeBourcy with Nephron Research. Your line is open.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Nephron Research `
Hi. Thanks. This is `Jack Meehan, Nephron Research on for Tom. I was wondering if you could elaborate on what you're
seeing as it relates to China stimulus, how that -- what parts of the portfolio are exposed to that,
and maybe just how it impacted the current quarter and confidence that steps up in the second
half of the fiscal year. Thanks.
A - `Kim Kelderman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Jack. As you know, the funding program is trickling through the different systems and
regional governments. It's certainly on its way. It's what we hear. Customers are certainly
interested in receiving the benefits and also interested in spending the money already. And as
you know, it's highly tailored to instrumentation only. I think we're really well positioned to benefit
from it.
A couple of data points. First of all, our instrumentation is pretty unique and it creates efficiencies
and improves the data that you get out of it. So there's a fantastic value proposition there.
Secondly, about a year ago, a similar funding concept was put in place, and we truly benefited.
That's why our current Q4, the one we're reporting on right now, had relatively high comparables
year-over-year because of that funding, and that worked out really well for us. This program is put
in place for three years. So we feel that the moment these funds become available, we will
benefit short-term. And then I feel it will be a positive driver for the coming years ahead, which is,
of course, better than just one quick jolt that then falls flat again. So I'm happy with that concept.
Now, in the meantime, out of our four product lines, we have the Ella product line, and that one
has already been growing very nicely in China. And as I mentioned at the beginning of the
earnings call, we have seen the consumables on all four of our platforms continue to grow
double-digits in the market as well and indicating that there is a very healthy usage of our
instruments. So overall, I'm pretty confident that this will be a positive driver for the company. Like
everybody else, the timing and when it trickles through is a little bit more vague, but I think the if
is more important than the when, and I'm pretty certain the if is going to take place.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Nephron Research `
Sounds good. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Matt Larew, William Blair with William Blair. Your line is open.
Q - `Matt Larew, William Blair `
Hi, everyone. I want to start on Lunaphore. Obviously, for a few quarters now, you've reported
that demand is outstripping capacity, and I know you brought manufacturing in-house and areattempting to scale that up. So could you maybe speak to where you're at from sort of fixing the
manufacturing there from a backlog perspective and how those two things maybe filter in to what
you think can deliver from Lunaphore in fiscal '25?
A - `Kim Kelderman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thank you for the question. First of all, we were delighted that we saw a healthy demand
above our capacity. That's of course, always a good starting point, painful nonetheless. So our
teams have worked really hard in cranking up the capacity and -- yes, I think that's ongoing now
for a little over two quarters and I'm very pleased to see the progress there. And, yes, we've
mentioned that it was still a consideration in Q4, our last fiscal quarter that we're now reporting
on. But that in Q1, fiscal year '25, this problem should be going away.
So the lines of capacity and demand are going to be crossing any week or any month right now.
And from there, we should not be held back by the capacity constraints anymore and just be able
to focus on increasing demand. So it's looking very promising from that point of view. You might
not hear about that topic anymore.
Q - `Matt Larew, William Blair `
Okay. That's good to hear. And then, Jim, just thinking about margins next year, obviously, you
gave the first half, first second half guidance. But I think just kind of do quick math on the top-line
and what it implies for margins that spending next year action, some of the resets you described
is going to be quite a bit less year-over-year growth than in recent years. You referenced some
productivity programs. So maybe just want to get a sense for where you're targeting from an
efficiency perspective and kind of what the balance is between trying to pull costs out to get
margins back in line relative to allocated investments for some of the future growth opportunities.
A - `James Jim T. Hippel, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I mean, the reality is that we've been working on productivity initiatives throughout this down
cycle. So it's definitely throughout fiscal '23, '24 and have more projects in fiscal year '25 as well.
And it's a delicate balance of making sure we adjust the structure inside of our business relative
to our volumes while maintaining and fueling the growth pillars, the growth verticals in our
company that are allowing us to outperform our competition and will propel us into double-digit
growth once the market gets back to normal growth rates.
And so it's a delicate balance. But I think we've been pretty successful in these initiatives that
we're doing. And we have line of sight to do that yet again this year and basically offset any new
investments we're making in those growth pillars in particular to keep them moving forward to
our five-year plan objectives. So it's an ongoing process for our company.
Operator
Our next question comes from Patrick Donnelly with Citi. Your line is open. And Patrick Donnelly,
your line is open. We'll take the next question from `Catherine Schulte, Baird with Baird. Your line is open.
Q - `Catherine Schulte, Baird `
Hey, guys. Thanks for the questions. Maybe first just on the outlook for the first half of low-single-
digit organic growth. Does that hold for the first quarter as well? And then any color on how we
should think about Protein Sciences specifically in the first half versus the back half?Yes. I'll take that. Thank you, Catherine. Yes, again, it's a gradual -- it's a very gradual increase that
we're talking about based -- fueled based off of market projections, right? And I said in my
opening comments that somewhere between low and mid-single-digit growth in the first half,
which would suggest some level of progression in both our end markets and our absolute
performance in the first half of our fiscal year 2025. So I want to make sure that that's clear.
With regards to where that improvement comes from, I think Kim mentioned this in his opening
comments as well, largely, it's going to come from our Protein Sciences segment, right? Because
that's the segment that's a part of our business that's most been severely impacted by China, by
the biotech funding issues, by the slowdown in big pharma. That's all hit and dead center into our
Protein Sciences segment. So as those end markets recover, our Protein Sciences segment will be
what recovers the fastest and the most, which will improve our mix over time throughout the year
and ultimately improve our margins throughout the year, which is another basis for why we
believe the second half margins will be significantly better than the first half.
Q - `Catherine Schulte, Baird `
Okay, got it. And then maybe for China, any thoughts on kind of how that trended throughout the
quarter? It sounded like stabilization was what you guys were seeing, but any differences as you
worked your way throughout the quarter and then what are you expecting for the first quarter for
China?
A - `James Jim T. Hippel, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
I would just say as for China, that it was basically a repeat of Q3. It really was in terms of you look
at the absolute dollars, the growth rates, our reagents continue to be double-digit like they were
last quarter, which is a great time for recovery, but instruments continue to be down. We're not
projecting any major pickup on instruments until we get into our first quarter '25 -- I'm sorry, first
quarter, first -- calendar '25 when the stimulus kicks in for China. So we think we see China's
continuing to be stable, but then really pick up its growth rates in the back half of our fiscal year.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Justin Bowers, Deutsche Bank with Deutsche Bank. Your line is open. Justin
Bowers, your line is open.
Q - `Justin Bowers, Deutsche Bank `
Pardon the mute there. Can you talk -- good morning. Can you talk about the biopharma end
market and how that performed across the different geographies and then any notable pockets
of outperformance or underperformance across the different growth pillars?
A - `James Jim T. Hippel, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I mean, biopharma taking China out of the mix, which when we report biopharma, it's really
excluding China anyway, we've mentioned that it was low-single-digit growth and was very
consistent globally, both in Europe and in the U.S.
And yes, so low-single-digit decline growth. But more importantly, the sequential performance of
biopharma was consistent in Q4 as it was in Q3. So try not to get too caught up in growth rates
because they can give it a bit wonky, but really focused on the momentum of the business going
forward. And because 80% of our business is consumables, that book can ship in the same day. It
really is all about the momentum and we're encouraged that the momentum overall, even withinSo I think we've been saying this -- we're going to have no change in our message from the past
two quarters, where we felt like the December quarter was a bit of a bottom and that we're kind
of in this bottoming process until the markets start to fully recover. And as I mentioned in my
opening comments, there's reasons to believe from a macro perspective that it will recover
sooner than later, but it will probably be a gradual process going forward.
Q - `Justin Bowers, Deutsche Bank `
Thanks, Jim. A quick follow-up on Lunaphore. In terms of linking the reagents to the instruments
there, is that like a multi-quarter or a multi-year process? Can you talk about that process and
phasing a little bit?
A - `Kim Kelderman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks for the question. No, the initiation of linking the RNAscope, HiPlex, to the box is
actually happening this quarter, and is going to roll out throughout this quarter. The antibodies
you could be using right now, so that's also already in place. Will we broaden that portfolio and
add different tools to it? Yes, and that will be just a filling out of the toolbox over the coming
quarters and years. But to start to get going and to do your experiments across most diseases,
most species, fully automated multi-omics, that's possible as we speak and in the coming
months.
Operator
We'll take our final question from `Sung Ji Nam, Scotiabank with Scotiabank. Your line is open.
Q - `Sung Ji Nam, Scotiabank `
Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. Just on the academic end market, I know it's relatively small,
but is the expectation there also for that segment to gradually recover throughout fiscal year '25,
given comps get easier? If you could maybe highlight some of the key puts and takes for that
end market.
A - `James Jim T. Hippel, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I would just say from an academic perspective, it's even throughout the pandemic, both
during the pandemic and post-pandemic, and I think as we track our peer performance, we're not
that different in that. It hasn't been an overly dynamic environment for academics. It's been pretty
much a low single-digit and mid-single-digit kind of growth in our space.
And we had some lumpiness in our comps this quarter, but that's kind of what we're predicting
going forward, call it, a low-single-digit market growth in academia, and that's basically what
we've experienced for the past several years and we see that kind of not changing much going
forward. And I'm sure you follow as much as I do, there's different bills in Congress right now that
would suggest that it will reconcile with someone in that range anyway going forward from an NIH
perspective.
A - `Kim Kelderman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I think what is a positive driver for our company is that much of the NIH funding, but also the
Horizon funding in Europe has been focused on infectious diseases and technologies and
sciences related to infectious diseases initiated through and because of the pandemic, but that
there's a more normalization if it comes to doing your studies and your sciences aroundneurology as well as immuno-oncology, and those are areas we are stronger and better
positioned in. So overall, we feel that the mix coming out of those funds will be in our advantage.
Q - `Sung Ji Nam, Scotiabank `
Got it. And then just on molecular diagnostics, also a small business for you guys, relatively
speaking, but you saw very strong growth throughout 2024 and just kind of curious if this is more
function -- more of a function of you taking share or is it just the underlying market growing faster
than expected? And then could this kind of level of growth momentum, could that continue into
2025 as well? Thank you.
A - `Kim Kelderman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I think it's a mixture. And thanks for the question. There are certainly just fundamental
improvements where we feel that we are taking share. There's also, of course, some dynamics
that we should not count on going forward all the time because we don't know exactly.
Remember that we had a couple of quarters of inventory adjustments and then we knew that
with the destocking that we were going through a couple of quarters that were lackluster.
And then we call the end of that in December and that we would be free and clear of that in the
new calendar year. And that became true, but I do believe that some of the inventories also got
normalized and that there is a little extra momentum there that won't repeat. Overall though, I
think there is some real underlying strength in that these end markets are healthy and we are
taking market share.
Operator
It appears we have no further questions. I'll turn the program back to the speakers for any
additional or closing remarks.
A - `Kim Kelderman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I will go ahead with my closing statement. Thank you very much for joining the call today and
for all the insightful questions. I'm extremely proud of the Bio-Techne team's accomplishments
and all the results that we have been able to deliver in the quarter and in the fiscal year, even
under the current market conditions. Our differentiated Portfolio addresses some of the highest
growth markets in life sciences and is positioned to deliver best-in-class performance for all of
our stakeholders going forward. So thank you very much. Until the next earnings call.
Operator
This does conclude today's program. Thank you for your participation and you may disconnect
your lines at any time.