Q4 2025 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning, and welcome to Bio-Techne's Earnings Conference Call for the Fourth Quarter
and Fiscal Year 2025. At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode. And the
call will be open for questions following management's prepared remarks. During our Q&A
session, please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.
I would now like to turn the call over to `David Clair, Vice President, Investor Relations & Corporate Development, Bio-Techne's Vice President, Investor Relations.
`David Clair, Vice President, Investor Relations & Corporate Development `
Good morning, and thank you for joining us. On the call with me this morning are `Kim Kelderman, President and Chief Executive Officer,
President and Chief Executive Officer; and `Jim Hippel, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Chief Financial Officer of Bio-Techne.
Before we begin, let me briefly cover our Safe Harbor statement. Some of the comments made
during this conference call may be considered forward-looking statements, including beliefs and
expectations about the company's future results. The company's 10-K for fiscal year 2024
identifies certain factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from
those projected in the forward-looking statements made during this call.
The company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements because of any new
information, or future events or developments. The 10-K, as well as the company's other SEC
filings, are available on the company's website within its Investor Relations section. During the call,
non-GAAP financial measures may be used to provide information pertinent to ongoing business
performance. Tables reconciling these measures to most comparable GAAP measures are
available in the company's press release issued earlier this morning on the Investor Relations
section of our Bio-Techne Corporation website at www.bio-techne.com. Separately, in the coming
weeks, we will be participating in the UBS, Wells Fargo, Baird, Morgan Stanley, and Deutsche Bank
Healthcare Conferences. We look forward to connecting with many of you at these upcoming
events.I will now turn the call over to Kim.
`Kim Kelderman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Dave, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to Bio-Techne's fiscal fourth quarter
2025 earnings call. I'm pleased to report that we delivered a solid quarter that was in line with our
expectations. The team's continued execution drove 3% organic revenue growth in a dynamic
operating environment.
Our performance was once again fueled by strength in the biopharma end markets, particularly
among large pharma customers, which fueled robust demand for our automated proteomic
analytical instrumentation and cell therapy solutions.
Our fourth quarter kept off a fiscal year in which we delivered 5% organic revenue growth, we
reinforced our leadership across key markets through a series of innovative product launches,
and we positioned the company for sustained future growth. As a reminder, approximately 80%
of Bio-Techne's revenue is derived from consumables, including those used for our proprietary
instrumentation, and this provides a strong foundation for durable growth. This resilient revenue
mix, combined with the critical value our customers place in our portfolio of tools for research,
manufacturing, and precision diagnostics, was reflected in our differentiated financial
performance, despite uncertainties many of our customers face throughout 2025. This
performance was once again achieved with a strong emphasis on profitability.
The operational efficiencies we continue to implement contributed to an adjusted operating
margin of 32% for the quarter. Our team remains focused on striking the right balance between
investing for future growth and driving productivity across the organization. This disciplined
approach enables us to maintain our industry-leading profitability while positioning Bio-Techne for
long-term success.
Before we delve into the quarterly performance, I want to highlight a strategic portfolio action
that reflects our long-term financial and operational priorities. Last night, we announced the
divestiture of our Exosome Diagnostics business, including the ExoDx Prostate test and our CLIA-
certified clinical laboratory to Mdxhealth, a recognized leader in urology and specifically prostate
cancer diagnostics.
Following a thorough strategic assessment, we concluded that a single high-performing CLIA test
does not provide us the operational leverage needed to support our broader growth ambitions.
We expect the transaction to close in the first quarters of fiscal 2026.
Importantly, Bio-Techne will retain access to the proprietary Exosome-based technology used in
our recently launched ESR1 mutation kit for breast cancer recurrence. We remain committed to
leveraging this platform to expand our portfolio of Exosome-based gene mutation kits, further
strengthening our position in precision diagnostics. Over the past five decades, Bio-Techne has
built a market-leading portfolio of high-quality, high-margin reagents, instruments, and tools
serving both the life sciences and the clinical diagnostics markets. The divestiture of Exosome
Diagnostics represents a strategic repositioning of our portfolio, and this enables us to redirect
investments towards strengthening our core foundation and our growth verticals. This transaction
also delivers an immediate uplift to our already sector-leading operating margin profile. Jim will
provide additional detail on the financial implications of this deal later in the call.
Let's now turn to our end-markets, beginning with Biopharma. Throughout fiscal 2025, we saw
steady momentum in this segment, particularly among large pharmaceutical customers. However,
recent commentary from the US administration regarding potential pharmaceutical tariffs and theproposed implementation of a Most Favored Nation drug pricing model has introduced a degree
of uncertainty across the pharma landscape. Despite those evolving dynamics, including shifting
timelines, changing tariff structures, and dynamic messaging regarding policy intent, demand for
Bio-Techne's broad portfolio remains strong.
Large pharmaceutical companies continue to rely on our high-quality reagents and productivity-
enhancing tools to advance their pipeline initiatives, underscoring the essential role our solutions
play in their research, development, and manufacturing workflows. The growth driven by a large
pharmaceutical customer base continued to be a key driver in the quarter. However, this
momentum was partially offset by more subdued performance from smaller biotech firms. These
companies remain cautious with their spending amid a constrained funding environment. This
strength is consistent with broader industry data, which indicates that biotech funding has
declined more than 40% year-to-date compared to the 2024 levels. Despite these headwinds,
our overall biopharma end-market delivered high single-digit growth for both the fourth quarter
and the full fiscal year.
Turning to Academia, a segment that continues to attract heightened attention across the life
science tools industry. Revenue from our academic customers represents approximately 21% of
our total business, with US institutions contributing roughly 12%. Given the ongoing uncertainty
surrounding the upcoming NIH budget, we conducted a comprehensive assessment to better
understand our exposure to NIH-funded research. Based on this evaluation, our new estimate is
that less than one-third of our US academic revenue is directly tied to NIH grants. In other words,
our total company exposure to NIH-funded research is likely in the low-single-digits range, and
that is notably below our prior estimate of 5% to 6%.
In light of recent reports of NIH grant cancellations, we also examined publicly available
databases to identify which research areas are most affected. Encouragingly, our analysis
revealed that funding for programs that are aligned with Bio-Techne's core portfolio remains
largely intact. Areas such as proteomics, chemistry, and spatial biology, cell culture, cell therapy,
and immunology have experienced relatively limited disruption. This reinforces the durability of
our academic exposure, which is concentrated in fields of ongoing scientific and clinical
importance. As a result, our academic end markets declined low-single-digits in the fourth quarter
and increased low-single-digits for the full fiscal year.
From a geographic standpoint, performance was broadly consistent with expectations. The
Americas delivered low-single-digit growth, Europe expanded mid-single digits, and APAC,
excluding China, grew low-single-digits as well. Noteworthy is that China delivered a positive
surprise, increasing low-double digits in the quarter as the region returned to growth ahead of
anticipated tariff impacts. This momentum was broad-based, spanning our portfolio of research
and GMP reagents, analytical instrumentation, and spatial biology solutions. Beyond the tariff-
related activity, market signals suggest that China has stabilized and is well-positioned for a
gradual return to modest growth in the coming quarters.
Now, let's discuss the growth drivers in our Protein Sciences segment, where strong execution
drove demand across our portfolio of Proteomic Analytical tools and Cell Therapy workflow
solutions. And this enabled 4% growth for the segment in the quarter.
Fiscal 2025 was marked by several key product launches that further strengthened our position in
the market. These launches included the introduction of Leo, our next-generation Simple Western
instrument, the introduction of ProPak enabling the continued expansion of our GMP reagents
portfolio, and the introduction of AI-enabled designer proteins.For full fiscal year 2025, our Protein Sciences segment increased revenues by 5%. The demand
for our Cell therapy workflow solutions remained strong with over 550 customers relying on Bio-
Techne's high-quality, consistent and highly bioactive GMP reagents to advance their preclinical
and clinical programs.
As mentioned, we introduced our ProPak GMP Cytokine product line in fiscal year 2025. ProPak
delivered precise cytokine concentrations to cell therapy manufacturers and support closed
system CAR-T and TCR-T manufacturing workflows. These innovative cytokine delivery systems
carry a value proposition that enables Bio-Techne to take share in later-stage and potentially
commercial-stage programs.
Our GMP reagent portfolio grew 20% in Q4 and exceeded 30% growth for the full fiscal year.
Sticking with our Cell therapy growth pillar, I also like to take this opportunity to give an update on
the manufacturer of the leading G-Rex bioreactors, Wilson Wolf. Bio-Techne currently owns 20%
of Wilson Wolf and is on track to acquire the remaining 80% by the end of calendar 2027, or
earlier, contingent upon milestone achievements.
Despite the ongoing softness in biotech funding, Wilson Wolf grew over 20% for fiscal 2025,
while maintaining EBITDA margins north of 70% for the year. Next, I'd like to highlight the
continued strength of our Proteomic Analytical instrument business. The productivity gains these
platforms deliver, combined with disciplined execution from our commercial teams, drove high-
single-digit growth for both the quarter and the full fiscal year.
Importantly, we saw mid-teens growth in instrument revenue, marking the third consecutive
quarter of year-over-year growth in instrument placements. Turning to our Simple Western
portfolio, demand for our next-generation high-throughput instrument called Leo was strong in
the quarter. The growing installed base, a robust order funnel, and a higher consumable pull-
through compared to the legacy Simple Western Systems all point to a promising future for this
platform.
We're also seeing meaningful traction in expanding new use cases for the Simple Western
technology. A recent example is the role Simple Western plays in supporting the FDA approval of
Abeona Therapeutics' cell-based gene therapy.
Our platform was used for GMP lot release testing of both the viral vector and the cell therapy,
underscoring its growing relevance as a QC tool in therapeutic development and manufacturing.
This is a clear signal that our instrumentation is not only driving productivity in research workflows
but it is increasingly being adopted in regulated environments, an important validation of our
strategy.
I'd also like to highlight the continued strength we're seeing in our biologics business led by the
Maurice platform. Maurice continues to gain share, driven by its ease-of-use, reproducibility, and
strong data compliance, which are attributes that align closely with the needs of our pharma and
bioprocessing customers.
As a reminder, Maurice is specked into pharmaceutical manufacturing lines as a QA/QC
instrument, and demand for bioprocessing instrumentation remains robust. This tailwind,
combined with our commercial execution, has translated into consistent growth in both
instrument placements and consumables pull-through.
Wrapping up our Protein Sciences segment, I'd like to turn to our core reagent and assay
portfolio. Our research use only consumables, including our industry-leading catalog of 6,000
proteins and 400,000 antibody types, grew low single digits in the quarter.Importantly, despite ongoing concerns around NIH outlays and uncertainties surrounding the fiscal
2026 NIH budget, reagent sales to our US academic customers remained flat compared to the
prior year period.
Another highlight is that we reinforced our leadership in RUO assays through a strategic
distribution partnership with Spear Bio. Under this agreement, Bio-Techne will distribute Spear
Bio's ultra-sensitive immunoassays targeting key Alzheimer's disease biomarkers, including pTau-
217, NfL, and others. This collaboration builds on our earlier participation in Spear Bio's $45 million
Series A funding round in 2024.
Let's now turn to the growth pillars within our Diagnostics and Spatial Biology segment. Organic
revenue declined 1% in the fourth quarter, primarily due to order timing across all three
businesses. For the full year, however, the segment delivered 6% organic revenue growth,
reflecting the strength of our portfolio.
Spatial Biology remains the area with the highest exposure to academic customers, and as such,
has been more accurately impacted by the uncertainties surrounding NIH funding and a softer
biotech funding environment.
Additionally, order timing for several Lunaphore COMET systems weighed on our performance,
with geopolitical headwinds delaying instrument placements in the Middle East. As a result,
Spatial Biology declined mid-single digits in Q4, but grew mid-single digits for the full fiscal year,
including nearly 50% growth for Lunaphore.
In summary, I'm incredibly proud of the consistent execution by the Bio-Techne team throughout
fiscal year 2025, especially in the face of persistent macroeconomic challenges and policy-driven
uncertainties. This past year showcased our innovation at scale with several high-impact product
launches across both segments that position us well for future growth.
Our portfolio remains tightly aligned with some of the most attractive and fastest-growing
markets in Life Sciences and Precision Diagnostics. With a focused strategy and a world-class
team, we are well-equipped to capitalize on these opportunities and drive long-term value
creation.
Now with that, I'll pass the call over to Jim. Jim?
`Jim Hippel, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Kim. I'll start with some additional details on our Q4 financial performance, and then
give some thoughts on the forward outlook. Starting with the overall fourth quarter financial
performance, adjusted EPS was $0.53 compared to $0.49 in the prior year, with foreign exchange
having a favorable $0.03 impact. GAAP EPS for the quarter was a loss of $0.11 compared to a
positive $0.25 in the prior year period.
Q4 revenue was $317 million, an increase of 3% year-over-year on an organic basis and 4%
reported. By geography, North America increased low single digits year-over-year, driven
primarily by our pharma customers. Europe increased mid-single digits, led by strength from our
biopharma customers and steady growth in Academia. China increased low-double digits as
demand improved in front of tariff uncertainties, while the rest of Asia increased low-single digits.
By end-market in Q4, biopharma increased high-single digits, while Academia decreased low-
single digits in the quarter. Below revenue on the P&L, total company adjusted gross margin was
70.1% in the quarter, compared to 71.1% last year, down year-over-year, primarily due tounfavorable product mix. Adjusted SG&A in Q4 was 30.2% of revenue, compared to 29.8% in the
prior year, while R&D expense in Q4 was 7.8% of revenue compared to 7.9% in the prior year.
The overall stability in SG&A and R&D was driven primarily by the ongoing benefits of structural
streamlining and diligent expense control, offset by the funding of strategic growth initiatives.
Adjusted operating margin for Q4 was 32%, down 150 basis points compared to the prior year,
primarily due to the impact of unfavorable product mix.
We continue to execute cost containment measures and prioritize our growth initiatives to drive
efficiencies throughout the organization with the goal of maximizing operating leverage, while we
are in this uncertain market environment.
Looking at numbers below operating income, net interest expense in Q4 was $1.4 million, flat with
the prior year. Our bank debt and the balance sheet as of the end of Q4 stood at $346 million.
Other adjusted net operating income was $5.2 million in the quarter, an increase of $4.7 million
compared to the prior year. The increase was driven by the foreign exchange impact related to
our overseas cash point arrangements, as well as our share of Wilson Wolf's net income.
Moving further down the P&L. Our adjusted effective tax rate in Q4 was 21.5%, down 60 basis
points compared to the prior year due to geographic mix.
Turning to cash flow and return of capital, $98.2 million of cash was generated from operations in
the quarter, and our net investment and capital expenditures was $4.9 million. Also during Q4, we
returned capital to shareholders by a way of $12.4 million in dividends and $100.1 million through
stock buybacks. We finished the quarter with 155.8 million average diluted shares outstanding, a
decrease of 3% compared to the prior year.
Our balance sheet finished Q4 in a strong position with $162.2 million in cash, and our total
leverage remains well below 1 times EBITDA. Going forward, M&A remains a top priority for
capital allocation.
Next, I'll discuss the performance of our reporting segments, starting with the Protein Sciences
segment. Q4 reported sales were $226.5 million, with reported revenue increasing 6% compared
to the prior year. Organic revenue growth was 4% for the quarter with foreign currency exchange
having a favorable impact of 2%. The segment's organic growth was driven by strong
performances in our cell therapy and protein analytical tools businesses, especially from large
pharma customers. Operating margin for the Protein Sciences segment was 43.6%, an increase
of 60 basis points compared to the prior year, primarily due to the impact of favorable volume
leverage, cost management and ongoing structural alignment initiatives.
Turning to the Diagnostics and Spatial Biology segment. Q4 sales were $89.7 million, with both
reported an organic growth decreasing 1% compared to the same period last year. Growth in
Asuragen, our ExoDx Prostate cancer test, and our Diagnostic Reagents business was offset by
the impact of macro uncertainties on our spatial biology portfolio and the timing of projects from
our companion diagnostics customers. For modeling purposes, total Exosome Diagnostics
revenue was $25.9 million in fiscal 2025 with an unfavorable impact of 200 basis points on our
corporate adjusted operating margin. As Kim mentioned in his remarks, we reached a definitive
agreement to divest the Exosome Diagnostics business to Mdxhealth. And the business will be
classified as a business held-for-sale until the anticipated close of the transaction during the first
quarter of our fiscal 2026.
Moving on to the Diagnostics and Spatial Biology segment operating margin, which was 6%
compared to the prior year's 12.5%. The decrease in margin was primarily due to unfavorableproduct mix. We expect this unfavorable product mix within this segment to start to reverse in Q1
of fiscal year '26, and we anticipate an immediate improvement in the Diagnostics and Spatial
Biology operating margin following the Exosome Diagnostics divestiture.
In summary, Q4 was in line with our expectations, and our teams continue to execute extremely
well, especially considering the turbulent market conditions induced by biotech funding
challenges as well as NIH funding and tariff uncertainties potentially impacting our customers. Prior
to the emergence of NIH funding and tariff uncertainties, our business was on its way back
towards double-digit organic growth, which we continue to view as the long-term growth rate of
our business under normal market conditions.
Looking ahead, predicting when these uncertainties will be resolved and when we might see
more stabilized end markets remains challenging. We are hopeful that the ongoing House and
Senate appropriations process will bring greater clarity to the government's fiscal 2026 NIH
budget. Encouragingly, select members of Congress continue to express support for NIH funding,
though the final outcome is unlikely be known before this fall. In the meantime, additional risks are
emerging, including the potential for budget, precision, and a shift toward multiyear grant funding
by the executive branch. These factors are contributing to cautious purchasing behavior among
our US academic customers, and we expect this dynamic to persist until there is more certainty
around funding.
Turning back to our pharma end market. Uncertainty remains around the potential tariff exposure
our pharmaceutical customers may face under the current US administration. While the recently
announced US-EU trade agreement, which includes a blanket 15% tariff on pharmaceuticals, is a
constructive step. The US administration is still proposing up to a 250% tariff on pharmaceutical
companies in the future. Compounding this uncertainty is the administration's recent push for
Most - Favored - Nation pricing, which could impact the profitability of the largest pharmaceutical
companies and, in turn, their reinvestment into R&D.
And finally, turning to our Biotech end market. This segment is responding cautiously to the
broader uncertainty impacting innovation and commercialization. Concerns around reduced
innovation from the academic sector, coupled with potentially lower returns on invested capital
from clinical pipelines, are weighing on sentiment. These pressures stem from the possibility of
diminished profitability post-commercialization due to policy shifts such as MFM pricing. As Kim
noted, Biotech funding has been notably soft year-to-date with industry reports estimating a
decline of over 40% compared to 2024 levels. We do not anticipate a meaningful rebound in
funding for smaller Biotech companies until there is greater clarity around NIH appropriations,
tariff policies, and drug pricing reforms.
Taking all of these factors into account, we believe Bio-Techne has navigated a highly dynamic
and uncertain market environment with discipline and resilience, delivering low-single-digit
organic growth in the most recent quarter.
Moving forward, we anticipate that our organic growth will remain in the low-single-digit range
until the current headwinds across our end-markets begin to subside. That said, we maintain a
high degree of confidence that our end-markets will return to their long-term historical growth
trajectories once these uncertainties are resolved. The underlying secular drivers, an aging global
population, increasing demand for improved quality of life, and the accelerating pace of scientific
breakthroughs in life sciences remain firmly intact and continue to support the long-term growth
outlook for our business.In terms of adjusted operating margin, we remain committed to balancing strategic investments
that fuel future growth with productivity initiatives that enhance profitability in today's dynamic
environment. A portion of these strategic investments will be funded through the reallocation of
resources previously dedicated to the ExoDx franchise, now redirected toward our core growth
pillars. These include advancing the next generation of our automated proteomic analysis and
spatial biology platforms, expanding applications in cell therapy, and reinvigorating our core
reagents portfolio with targeted investments in organoid research and AI-driven protein
development.
Even with this redirected investment, we expect adjusted operating margin expansion of
approximately 100 basis points in fiscal year '26, compared to fiscal 2025, starting flat year-over-
year in our first quarter and ramping to roughly 200 basis points higher by Q4.
That concludes my prepared comments. And with that, I'll turn the call back over to the operator
to open the line for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We'll take our first question from `Puneet Souda, Analyst, Leerink Partners with Leerink
Partners. Your line is now open.
Q - `Puneet Souda, Analyst, Leerink Partners `
Yeah. Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. So, first one on the guide. I just wanted to clarify in
the outlook comments you made, do you -- are you expecting low-single-digit for the full year
fiscal '26? And if you could talk a little bit about the cadence of that over the next four quarters,
how should we think about the Protein Sciences segment growth within that context versus the
DSS growth?
A - `Jim Hippel, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Hi, excuse me. Hi, Puneet, this is Jim. So, first of all, to clarify, the guidance was not
necessarily for full-year fiscal '26 growth of low single digits. It was that we expect low-single-digit
growth until there is more certainty around the various administration policies out there on
academic funding and pharmaceutical tariffs, and MFN pricing. And if that takes the full fiscal year
to become more certain, then yes, that would translate to a full fiscal year '26. But to be clear, I'm
not necessarily anticipating that I'll take the full year for that uncertainty to become more known.
With regards to the Life segment, as you know, we don't give guidance specifically by segment.
I'd say, there's some puts and takes within both the segments, but I wouldn't expect a big
material change in the growth rates in either one under this environment.
Q - `Puneet Souda, Analyst, Leerink Partners `
Okay. That's helpful. And then on the pharma, large pharma segment, it appears instrumentation
did well. That's in contrast to some of the things that we're seeing from the peers. Maybe can
you talk a little bit about what's -- what instruments are driving growth there? Lunaphore was
obviously weak in academic setting, but just wanting to understand what was -- what's picking up
in instrumentation? And how should we think about the overall antibodies and cytokines business
to perform this year, because obviously that's consumables and should be more resilient despite
the somewhat the challenging market backdrop? Thank you.A - `Kim Kelderman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Puneet, thanks for the question. The instruments, indeed, to our delight, did really well in
large pharma. And we have seen that trend over the last couple of quarters because we know
that our instrumentation are getting more and more utilized not only in the early discovery
phases, but also in the QA and QC applications for production. And there, we're getting specked
in, and we definitely see strong growth in the biologics product lines.
And then on top of that, we've launched the Simple Western high-throughput system called Leo,
which is kind of tailored to large pharma users because it has much higher throughput, and that's
what I attribute the successes to for serving the large pharma customers.
On the Lunaphore side, yeah, we had strong traction, and in my prepared remarks, I already
mentioned that we were pretty unlucky with replacements of the instruments where we couldn't
execute on the -- putting them in commission in the Middle East due to political turbulence. And
therefore, we will have to push out those instruments to next quarter. But in the meantime, if I
look at the win-loss rate and the order book for that product line, we're looking pretty strong.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Dan Leonard, Analyst, UBS with UBS. Your line is now open.
Q - `Dan Leonard, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you very much. So I appreciate we're in an uncertain environment. But when you're thinking
about the outlook, Kim, would you still commit to that market plus 500 basis points of growth
that you've talked about previously?
A - `Kim Kelderman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
In an extreme environment, Dan, and thanks for your question, it's obviously harder or less
predictable to outperform exactly those 500 basis points or more. We, obviously, have a track
record where we've done so for a couple of years. But yeah, if markets dry up or are really
turbulent, it could be -- it could be different.
However, over the quarters, where I can definitely hope and see that there will be more clarity
around the two or three topics Jim mentioned earlier. I have no doubt that we will have the same
differentiation to our peer group, but also a very much intact long-range model, where we will be
growing 500 basis points or more compared to market, and that will then naturally also bring us
back to double digits.
Q - `Dan Leonard, Analyst, UBS `
Understood. And then my follow-up on your operating margin expansion. I'm curious how you can
accomplish 100 basis points of operating margin expansion on low-single-digit growth. Is that due
specifically to the divestiture of Exosome? Or is that something that you could commit to at that
growth level?
A - `Jim Hippel, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
It is being driven by the divestiture of Exosome. As we mentioned, exosome was a headwind of
about 200 basis points to our margin in fiscal year '25. But we are making strategic moves to
reinvest some of the money we had put in Exosome prior into other growth pillars. So, we thinkwe can do that and continue to fortify our positions for growth going forward in our core growth
pillars, while still providing some margin expansion back to investors, hence the 100 basis points.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Dan Arias, Analyst, Stifel with Stifel. Your line is now open.
Q - `Dan Arias, Analyst, Stifel `
Good morning, guys. Thanks for the questions. I appreciate you doing the legwork to understand
the NIH exposure there. Low-single-digit exposure is actually pretty low. Can you expand on
where the funding is coming from for the two-thirds of the academic customers that aren't tied
to the NIH? Is it pharma? Is it private sources? Where are these guys getting their money from?
A - `Jim Hippel, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Based on the research we've done, Dan, and you probably can see the same as in a lot of
surveys out there that have been published with regards to where academic institutions in the US
do get their money from, and I'm pretty consistent that roughly 50%, 55% of their funding comes
from federal sources. And all those federal sources, roughly 50% comes from NIH. So that
equates to roughly less than a third of the academic research funding coming from specifically,
NIH. So that's the math behind that number.
And for us, of course, US academic is only 12% of our business, so.
Q - `Dan Arias, Analyst, Stifel `
Yeah. Okay. And then, maybe on Wilson Wolf, since you guys touched on that, obviously, the top
line performance that would trigger the change in control is something that you can only do so
much about, but the EBITDA threshold could be managed to, especially since I think that's the
one that's actually closer to hitting the target. Do you have a sense for whether that business is
going to be run with a sooner rather than later takeout in mind? Or is it really just kind of it will do
what it does, and that change will take place whenever that happens to happen?
A - `Kim Kelderman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, Dan. I think, of course, we keep a close eye on it because we are quite interested in having
the assets under our -- under our management because it's a fantastic -- fantastic product
portfolio and very synergistic with not only our reagents, but also with our top and bottom line.
So, EBITDA, to your question, it's going to be close. I think if there is a little bit of tailwind in the
business, it's definitely possible that the EBITDA threshold will be triggered and that we will be
rightful owners of the asset earlier than the December 31st of '27, which is the date where we will
get it, no matter what, right. It's going to be closed. So we keep an eye on it, and we, of course,
are rooting for Wilson Wolf to achieve it.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Matt Larew, Analyst, William Blair with William Blair. Please go ahead. Your
line is open.
Q - `Matt Larew, Analyst, William Blair `
Hi, good morning. You referenced a set of unknowns that's sort of driving the low-single-digitsome cadence to how that occurs. It sounds like you did a lot of customer outreach and surveys
over the course of the last few months. What did you learn about budget unlock? And what will
really kind of catalyze spend from those different sets of uncertainties that are influencing
outlook?
A - `Jim Hippel, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Well, I think from the academic perspective, Matt, it comes down to this customer behavior. We're
hearing that despite the NIH funding being less than a third of what actually funds these academic
institutions, natural behavior is to kind of overreact and hold back on everything, being concerned
where money might come from in the future. And so, we're hearing about at least temporary
budgets being cut,10%, 15% across the board in terms of not cut, but just in terms of holding back
on spending and on anticipation of what may or may not happen.
So, yeah, I think our actual belief after talking to many customers and hearing realized a bunch of
surveys around this is that what we're experiencing now in academic is from a behavior
perspective, might be worse than any actual negative outcome of the funding. So I actually view a
resolution of, call it, certainty of where the NIH budgets fall out, whether that's flat, whether that's
minus 10% or even minus 15%. We are -- I actually view that as upside once that known -- that
unknown becomes known because we believe customers are actually behaving more
conservative than even the worst case scenario.
Q - `Matt Larew, Analyst, William Blair `
Okay. Thanks. So, obviously, the Exosome divestment you followed the -- and early with the
Atlanta Biologicals one a couple of years ago. You referenced M&A remains a key focus in light of
some of the portfolio reshaping that's going on, you've referenced a sort of renewed focus on
margin profile. How are you thinking about M&A, be it by segment, be it by stage of a company,
or relative profitability and potential?
A - `Kim Kelderman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thank you, Matt. Well, M&A is still the highest priority, and it will be for the capital
deployments. And yes, we would be very interested in getting product lines and companies that
are aligned with our strategy, right, high-margin, high-volume products that we can ship through
our channels globally. And therefore, investing in our core -- the core reagents adding to that is
very likely a desirable scenario. Cell therapy, there are still many capabilities that we could add to
our very successful cell therapy franchise. And then, we have a very strong portfolio in
instrumentation and related consumables in the ProteinSimple franchise. And there we also see
capabilities that we could add. And yeah, therefore, we're keeping a very precise list of targets
that we are nurturing and definitely would be very, very eager to act on.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Kyle Boucher, Analyst, TD Cowen with TD Cowen. Please go ahead. Your
line is open.
Q - `Kyle Boucher, Analyst, TD Cowen `
Hey, good morning. Thanks for taking the questions. I wanted to just dig in a little bit on trends
you're seeing between large pharma and biotech, and maybe how they sort of trended
throughout the quarter. And then maybe on the large pharma side, some peers have been a little
bit more positive on large pharma that it's sort of stable, if not steadily improving a little bit. So, Iguess, just in the context of your low-single-digit growth expectation, how does pharma sort of fit
within that framework?
A - `Jim Hippel, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So, even this most recent quarter, we had low-single-digit growth, and yet our pharma --
large pharma grew double-digit. So, large pharma has been very robust for us as well. And our
guidance going forward is basically assumes more of the same. Is there a risk that could soften a
bit with the MFN concerns and so forth? Yes. We feel like that's balanced with somewhat from
academic being a bit overly conservative right now with regards to what the eventual outcomes
there could be. So, our -- but the low-single-digit basically is more of the same that we saw this
current quarter. We just lived through a quarter at some of the high -- that some of the largest
uncertainties we faced in the life science tools industry in quite a long time. And those
uncertainties haven't gone away. They haven't gotten any worse, but they haven't gotten any
better. And so, we kind of expect more of the same in all three of our major end markets until
these uncertainties are resolved.
Q - `Kyle Boucher, Analyst, TD Cowen `
Got it. And then, maybe a quick clarification on China, pretty impressive growth there in the fiscal
fourth quarter. Could you quantify how much maybe pull-forward you saw in the fiscal fourth
quarter? I think you mentioned that activity sort of picked up ahead of potential tariff impacts. Is
that right?
A - `Kim Kelderman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, that was definitely something that we saw, like in China, there were a couple of dynamics.
One is that we had some benefits from funding that was being released. That was a tailwind. And
then, China itself was, of course, aware that there was a deadline looming when it comes to the
tariffs, and there might have been some behavior in pulling in purchases before these deadlines
expire and before the tariffs will be enacted. And that's what drove our double-digit results.
And we wanted to make sure that that's not something we feel that the region would deliver
every quarter from now. But that we would see if you take those out, a very stable China that is
inching forward and accelerating again to modest growth. So that's how we would look at it.
Operator
Thank you. We will take our next question from `Brandon Couillard, Analyst, Wells Fargo with Wells Fargo. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Brandon Couillard, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Hey, thanks. Good morning. I just want to clarify on the margin outlook. I think you talked about
200 basis points in the second half of the year. Does that assume an accelerating top-line
outlook? And if you could just touch on kind of what's embedded for net pricing and any tariff
headwinds for the year would be helpful. Thanks.
A - `Jim Hippel, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. To sort of clarify specifically, we expect to be about 200 basis points of improvement by
the time we get to Q4. So, not necessarily the entire second half by the time we get to Q4. And
the ramp of going from flat to 200 basis points is a combination of the timing of Exosome
Diagnostics completely rolling off of our ledger and ongoing productivity initiatives that we'reimplementing right now that will gain traction in terms of hitting the bottom line as the year
progresses. And then, the natural lift of revenues that we have from a seasonality perspective in
the back half of the year versus the front half of the year. So, it's really a combination of all three
of those things that allow for that margin expansion to accelerate throughout the year.
Q - `Brandon Couillard, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Great. And just one follow-up on China in the quarter, low-double-digit growth. How would that
kind of breakdown between consumables and instruments? Was there any stimulus benefit in the
period? Thanks.
A - `Kim Kelderman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. There was a handful of instruments that we shipped related to stimulus. And yeah, the
breakout between consumables and instruments we usually don't give, but it's relatively similar.
A - `Jim Hippel, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. What I'd add to that is that I think the growth we saw in China was driven a little bit by the
stimulus, as Kim mentioned, but also by the instruments that we believe customers were
ordering in anticipation of tariffs, which never really materialized. And we talked about the fact
that we think overall the Chinese market is stabilizing. So, a market growth that's roughly flat and
going forward, maybe slightly positive, and that would be more consistent with how our reagents
performed.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Daniel Markowitz, Analyst, Evercore ISI with Evercore ISI. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Daniel Markowitz, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Hey, guys. Thank you for taking my questions. I had two. The first one, as you think through the
drivers of margin expansion in fiscal '26. It seems like the guide is assuming low-single-digit
organic. And it's hard to expand margins at that kind of topline growth. But of course, you have a
couple of tailwinds coming from the tariff offsets and the ExoDx divestiture. Is the plan to toggle
the amount of ExoDx reinvestments depending on topline? Or would any upside to the organic
top line lead to upside to margin expansion as well?
A - `Jim Hippel, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
So I'd say that -- excuse me, our base case that we're operating right now is low-single-digit
growth until the markets improve. And I can't predict when exactly that will be, but we are
managing the business under that low-single-digit growth environment, taking productivity
actions, as you would expect us to do in that kind of situation.
Those productivity actions combined with Exo Diagnostics no longer being in our results gives us
margin headroom for a reinvestment back into our businesses when the markets do return. So,
that's how we're managing the business today. Now, if you're asking when these uncertainties
become -- get more -- get resolved and you should see some tailwinds from that, we will decide
when that happens what next investments are in deck to make and the trade-offs between
reinvesting that upside into future growth platforms and/or giving them some more margin back
to the investors. So, we will continue to have that balancing act as the markets return back to
normal. But right now, we're managing the business under a low-single-digit growth environmentand productivity actions and ExoDx, allowing us to still reinvest for growth, while expanding
margins.
Q - `Daniel Markowitz, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
That's helpful. Thanks, Jim. And then, the second one, just on cell and gene therapy. I know you
called out Wilson Wolf plus 20% and called out strength in cell therapy in the press release and
on the call. Was this similar across the rest of the cell and gene portfolio?
A - `Jim Hippel, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I'm sorry, could you repeat the question one more time, or -- not quite sure we understood
the context.
Q - `Daniel Markowitz, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Sorry. Yeah. You called out Wilson Wolf about a 20% growth. Was that similar growth profile
across the rest of the cell and gene portfolio?
A - `Kim Kelderman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So, yes, it was. It was almost identical.
A - `Jim Hippel, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes.
Operator
And thank you. We'll take our next question from `Mac Etoch, Analyst, Stephens Inc. with Stephens Inc. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Mac Etoch, Analyst, Stephens Inc.
Hey, good morning. Maybe just following up on the previous question around cell and gene
therapy. Can you maybe flush out some of the puts and takes around this end market, just given
the current challenges?
A - `Kim Kelderman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I didn't hear the question. Do you mind repeating it?
Q - `Mac Etoch, Analyst, Stephens Inc.
Yeah. Apologies. I was just saying, good morning, but I just wanted to follow up on the prior
question. I was just hoping that -- hoping to see if you all could flush out some of the puts and
takes around the cell and gene therapy end-market, just given the current challenges?
A - `Kim Kelderman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. So, we are actually -- we know that the biotech markets are depressed from a funding
level, but the later-stage companies still invest in their programs, and that's really what's driving
the results. I think -- it could be better with a broader, healthier market in biotech and pharma, but
overall, I'm impressed with the resilience of our cell and gene therapy franchise, which -- which
will hope -- we will hope accelerate at some point, but with 20% growth, it's in constrainedmarket. It's showing its value and it's showing that many companies are still investing behind Cell
therapy solutions.
Q - `Mac Etoch, Analyst, Stephens Inc.
Appreciate that. And then you also highlighted the cell and gene therapy opportunity for the
Ella[ph] and Simple Western instruments. Is there any way to frame up how much of your
instrument revenue comes from the cell and gene therapy end market, or what this can mean for
growth going forward?
A - `Kim Kelderman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
It's hard for us. We typically don't divulge that information. We -- because customers could order
an instrument and use it in several applications. We do notice from the interest in the different
application nodes that we release that there has been clearly a tilt towards the applications in cell
therapy.
A - `Jim Hippel, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. And I'd also say that the strength in our ProteinSimple franchise. It was driven this last recent
quarter, but for several quarters now by both our Simple Western and our Maurice platforms. And
we know that -- and from both large pharma and smaller biotech customers, both. And so, we
know that the applications that those are being used for it can tend to be more downstream in
nature, whether that's in biologics or whether that's in cell therapies. So, yeah, I think to Kim's
point, the cell therapy clinical tend to be more later stage, and that's where the money is still
going.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Patrick Donnelly, Analyst, Citi with Citi. Please go ahead. Your line
is open.
Q - `Patrick Donnelly, Analyst, Citi `
Hey, guys. Thanks for -- thanks for taking the questions. Maybe on China, helpful to talk through it
seems like maybe a little bit of some pull forward. Can you talk about, I guess, what you saw
underlying in the quarter and then the expectations going forward? Where are we in that region?
How are you thinking about in terms of that low-single-digit growth going forward? How China
plays into that would be helpful.
A - `Kim Kelderman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thank you, Patrick. Right, there's a couple of dynamics going on in China. And I think the
most important one for us is, of course, the funding has been a long storyline over the last couple
of years, but we always knew that we were with the most recent funding that it was going to be
have -- going to be a slight impact -- positive impact for us, not the main driver.
Then we have the China for China market, which is a positive driver for us, which we feel is
stabilizing. And then, last but not least, we now have quite some activity -- high activity level in
China outlicensing technologies and therapies globally, and that is really what is what is, driving
some of the heightened activity level.
And that's also what we feel is going to be the true driver for the upcoming growth, where we
feel that there will be a continued recovery, in the China region, to get back to modest growth.Q - `Patrick Donnelly, Analyst, Citi `
Okay. That's helpful. And then, maybe one for Jim, just in terms of the guide, obviously, I get the
kind of the short term low single digits. I guess, in terms of visibility, are you guys just -- is it just
the biotech and academic piece, just a little bit of caution there? And want to wait and see before
calling any sort of inflection? What are you guys looking for in terms of gaining a little more
visibility and ramping back to maybe a little bit more of the normal growth rates we're used to
seeing from you guys?
A - `Jim Hippel, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
No, Patrick, that's exactly right. I mean, rather than sit here and try to call an inflection point and
call a point in time of when these decisions are going to be made around NIH funding and how
the executive branch is going to manage to that and when funding will actually return back to Bio-
Tech. I mean, I'm not at (inaudible) anymore than anyone else is. So, those are the key indicators
we're looking for.
We do believe that once the -- once all this noise around NIH funding, and settles down, we think
our customers in academic will also settle down and regroup. And we do think right now, we're
experiencing the worst of it. So, I see that as upside when that happens. And hopefully, that
happens early this fall, but we all know they can drag out longer than that. So, we'll have to wait
and see.
And then, biotech funding, same thing. We're monitoring that. The good news is the past couple
of months, it appears as though the funding is starting to come back a bit, but it's still down a lot
year-over-year from a year-to-date perspective. So, two months doesn't make a trend, but we
are encouraged by that. But we do believe the biotech funding sentiment follows kind of a
combination of both the academic sentiment and the large pharma sentiment. So -- and it can
accelerate otherwise.
So, I think getting resolution on the pharma tariffs, the pharma MFN pricing, and how that's going
to play out. Once those are more known, I think those will all be inflection points for stabilization
of our markets and confidence to reinvest in R&D.
Operator
Thank you. We have reached our allotted time for the question-and-answer session. I would now
like to turn the call back over to `Kim Kelderman, President and Chief Executive Officer for any additional or closing remarks.
A - `Kim Kelderman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you for joining today's earnings call. As mentioned, I'm extremely proud of the Bio-Techne
team for their continued execution during this prolonged period of uncertainty across our end
markets.
Our differentiated financial performance reflects the strong value our customers place on our
uniquely positioned portfolio of research and reagents, proteomic analysis tools, cell therapy
workflow solutions, and diagnostic and spatial biology products.
In fiscal 2025, we strengthened our portfolio through several innovative product launches and re-
shaped the business with the divestiture of non-strategic assets. These strategic moves enhance
our competitive positioning and allow us to focus investment on our core products and our key
growth pillars, and with that, unlocking sustainable value creation for all our stakeholders.Thank you again, and I wish you all a great day.
Operator
Thank you. This does conclude today's program. Thank you for your participation. You may
disconnect at any time and have a wonderful day.