Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Description of Merck’s Business Merck & Co., Inc. (Merck or the Company) is a global health care company that delivers innovative health solutions through its prescription medicines, vaccines, biologic therapies and animal health products, which it markets directly and through its joint ventures. The Company’s operations are principally managed on a products basis and are comprised of four operating segments, the Pharmaceutical, Animal Health, Alliances and Healthcare Services segments. The Pharmaceutical segment is the only reportable segment. The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products marketed either directly by the Company or through joint ventures. Human health pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. The Company sells these human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Vaccine products consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. The Company sells these human health vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. The Company also has animal health operations that discover, develop, manufacture and market animal health products, including vaccines, which the Company sells to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. Merck’s Alliances segment primarily includes results from the Company’s relationship with AstraZeneca LP until the termination of that relationship on June 30, 2014. The Company’s Healthcare Services segment provides services and solutions that focus on engagement, health analytics and clinical services to improve the value of care delivered to patients. On October 1, 2014, the Company divested its Consumer Care segment that developed, manufactured and marketed over-the-counter, foot care and sun care products. Overview During 2015, Merck continued to execute its research and development focused-strategy, advance its pipeline and commercial portfolio while maintaining a disciplined approach to cost management and delivering capital returns to shareholders. The Company received several product approvals in 2015 that include expanded indications for Keytruda , the Company’s anti-PD-1 (programmed death receptor-1) therapy for the treatment of advanced melanoma and metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in patients whose tumors express PD-L1 with disease progression following other therapies, as well as U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval for Bridion (sugammadex) Injection, a medication for the reversal of two types of neuromuscular blocking agents used during surgery. Additionally, in January 2016, the FDA approved Zepatier , a once-daily, single tablet combination therapy in the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotype (GT) 1 or GT4 infection, with or without ribavirin. Business development is a critical part of the Company’s strategy as Merck looks to combine internal and external innovation to enhance its pipeline. During 2015, Merck acquired Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Cubist), a leader in the development of new therapies to treat serious and potentially life-threatening infections caused by a broad range of increasingly drug-resistant bacteria, and cCAM Biotherapuetics Ltd. (cCAM), a biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery and development of novel cancer immunotherapies. Also in 2015, Merck entered into a multi-year collaboration with NGM Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. (NGM) to research, discover, develop and commercialize novel biologic therapies across a wide range of therapeutic areas. In January 2016, Merck acquired IOmet Pharma Ltd (IOmet), a drug discovery company focused on the development of innovative medicines for the treatment of cancer, with a particular emphasis on the fields of cancer immunotherapy and cancer metabolism. Worldwide sales were $39.5 billion in 2015 , a decline of 6% compared with 2014 , including a 6% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The acquisition of Cubist in 2015, the divestiture of Merck’s Consumer Care business (MCC) in 2014, as well as product divestitures and the termination in 2014 of the Company’s relationship with AstraZeneca LP (AZLP) had a net unfavorable impact to sales of approximately 3%. Sales performance was also unfavorably affected by the ongoing impacts of the loss of market exclusivity for several products. These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by volume growth in oncology, diabetes, women’s health and vaccine products, and positive performance from Merck’s Animal Health business. Merck continues to support its in-line portfolio, as well as ongoing and upcoming product launches. Keytruda , initially approved by the FDA in September 2014 for the treatment of advanced melanoma in patients with disease progression after other therapies, is launching in more than 40 markets, including in the European Union (EU). In 2015, Merck achieved multiple additional regulatory milestones for Keytruda including accelerated approval from the FDA 34 Table of Contents for the treatment of patients with metastatic NSCLC whose tumors express PD-L1 as determined by an FDA-approved test and who have disease progression on or after platinum-containing chemotherapy. In addition, the FDA approved an expanded indication for Keytruda to include the first-line treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma. Additionally, in 2015, the European Commission (EC) approved Keytruda for the treatment of advanced (unresectable or metastatic) melanoma in adults. The Keytruda clinical trials program currently includes more than 30 tumor types in more than 200 clinical trials, including over 100 trials that combine Keytruda with other cancer treatments (see “Research and Development” below). The Company is also launching Zepatier and Bridion in the United States. While the Company continues to execute its strategy of pursuing business development opportunities to complement its internal research capabilities, as part of Merck’s prioritization efforts, the Company also continues to review its existing assets to determine whether they can provide the best short- and longer-term value with Merck or elsewhere. In connection with its portfolio assessment process, the Company divested its remaining ophthalmics business in international markets during 2015. The Company’s portfolio assessment process is ongoing and future divestitures may occur. Merck is focusing its research efforts on the therapeutic areas that it believes can make the most impact on addressing critical areas of unmet medical need, such as cancer, hepatitis C, cardiometabolic disease, resistant microbial infection and Alzheimer’s disease. During 2015, the Company continued to make strides in its late-stage pipeline. MK-6072, bezlotoxumab, is an investigational antitoxin for the prevention of Clostridium difficile (C. difficile) infection recurrence that is currently under review with the FDA and the European Medicines Agency (EMA). MK-1293, an insulin glargine candidate for the treatment of patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes being developed in a collaboration, is also under review in the EU, as is Zepatier . Keytruda is under review in the EU for the treatment of NSCLC. In addition to Phase 3 programs for Keytruda in the therapeutic areas of bladder, breast, colorectal, gastric, head and neck, multiple myeloma, and esophageal cancers, the Company also has more than 10 candidates in Phase 3 clinical development in its core therapeutic areas, as well as other areas with significant potential, including MK-3102, omarigliptin, an investigational once-weekly  dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor in development for the treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes; MK-0822, odanacatib, an oral, once-weekly investigational treatment for patients with osteoporosis; MK-8835, ertugliflozin, an investigational oral sodium glucose cotransporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitor being evaluated alone and in combination with Januvia (sitagliptin) and metformin for the treatment of type 2 diabetes; and MK-8237, an investigational allergy immunotherapy tablet for house dust mite allergy. Merck expects to submit applications for regulatory approval in the United States for each of these candidates, as well as MK-1293 described above, in 2016. As a result of continued portfolio prioritization, the Company is out-licensing or discontinuing selected late-stage clinical development assets. During 2015, the Company out-licensed MK-1602 and MK-8031, investigational small molecule oral calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonists, which are being developed for the treatment and prevention of migraine. The Company continued to make strong progress in 2015 reducing its cost base. As a result of disciplined cost management, Merck has achieved its overall savings goal in 2015 as noted below. The Company has in turn invested its resources to grow its strongest brands and to support the most promising assets in its pipeline. Marketing and administrative expenses declined in 2015 as compared with 2014 reflecting in part this continued focus by the Company on prioritizing its resources to the highest growth areas. In 2013, the Company initiated actions under a global restructuring program (the 2013 Restructuring Program) as part of a global initiative to sharpen its commercial and research and development focus. The actions under this program primarily include the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as research and development. Additionally, these actions include the reduction of the Company’s global real estate footprint and improvements in the efficiency of its manufacturing and supply network. The Company recorded total pretax costs of $527 million in 2015 and $1.2 billion in both 2014 and 2013 related to this restructuring program. The actions under the 2013 Restructuring Program were substantially completed by the end of 2015. The Company has met its projected $2.0 billion in annual net cost savings for actions under the 2013 Restructuring Program. When the actions under the 2013 Restructuring Program are combined with the actions under the Merger Restructuring Program (discussed below), the Company has also met its annual net cost savings projection of $2.5 billion compared with full-year 2012 expense levels. 35 Table of Contents The global restructuring program (the Merger Restructuring Program) that was initiated in 2010 subsequent to the Merck and Schering-Plough Corporation (Schering-Plough) merger (the Merger) is intended to streamline the cost structure of the combined company. The actions under this plan include the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as the sale or closure of certain manufacturing and research and development sites and the consolidation of office facilities. The Company recorded total pretax costs of $583 million in 2015 , $730 million in 2014 and $1.1 billion in 2013 related to this restructuring program. The non-facility related restructuring actions under the Merger Restructuring Program are substantially complete. Beginning January 1, 2016, the remaining restructuring actions under both plans, which primarily relate to ongoing facility rationalizations, will be accounted for in the aggregate prospectively. The Company expects to complete such actions by the end of 2017 and incur approximately $1.5 billion of additional pretax costs. Costs associated with the Company’s restructuring actions are included in Materials and production costs, Marketing and administrative expenses, Research and development expenses and Restructuring costs . The Company estimates that approximately two-thirds of the cumulative pretax costs relate to cash outlays, primarily related to employee separation expense. Approximately one-third of the cumulative pretax costs are non-cash, relating primarily to the accelerated depreciation of facilities to be closed or divested. In November 2015, Merck’s Board of Directors raised the Company’s quarterly dividend to $0.46 per share from $0.45 per share. During 2015, the Company returned  $9.3 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. In January 2016, Merck announced that it had reached an agreement with plaintiffs to resolve Vioxx shareholder class action litigation pending in New Jersey federal court. Under the agreement, Merck will pay $830 million to resolve the settlement class members’ claims, plus an additional amount for approved attorneys’ fees and expenses. In connection with the settlement, Merck recorded a net pretax charge of $680 million in the fourth quarter of 2015, which includes anticipated insurance recoveries. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. Earnings per common share assuming dilution attributable to common shareholders (EPS) for 2015 were $1.56 compared with $4.07 in 2014 . EPS in both years reflect the impact of acquisition and divestiture-related costs and restructuring costs, as well as certain other items, which in 2014 include an $11.2 billion gain recognized in connection with the divestiture of MCC. Non-GAAP EPS, which excludes these items, were $3.59 in 2015 and $3.49 in 2014 (see “Non-GAAP Income and Non-GAAP EPS” below). Competition and the Health Care Environment Competition The markets in which the Company conducts its business and the pharmaceutical industry in general are highly competitive and highly regulated. The Company’s competitors include other worldwide research-based pharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, generic drug manufacturers and animal health care companies. The Company’s operations may be adversely affected by generic and biosimilar competition as the Company’s products mature, as well as technological advances of competitors, industry consolidation, patents granted to competitors, competitive combination products, new products of competitors, the generic availability of competitors’ branded products, and new information from clinical trials of marketed products or post-marketing surveillance. In addition, patent rights are increasingly being challenged by competitors, and the outcome can be highly uncertain. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect sales of existing products and could result in the recognition of an impairment charge with respect to intangible assets associated with certain products. Competitive pressures have intensified as pressures in the industry have grown. Pharmaceutical competition involves a rigorous search for technological innovations and the ability to market these innovations effectively. With its long-standing emphasis on research and development, the Company is well positioned to compete in the search for technological innovations. Additional resources required to meet market challenges include quality control, flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient distribution system and a strong technical information service. The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products through external alliances, such as licensing arrangements, and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to further address changing industry conditions. However, the introduction of new products and processes by competitors may result in price reductions and product displacements, even for products protected by patents. For example, the number of 36 Table of Contents compounds available to treat a particular disease typically increases over time and can result in slowed sales growth or reduced sales for the Company’s products in that therapeutic category. The highly competitive animal health business is affected by several factors including regulatory and legislative issues, scientific and technological advances, product innovation, the quality and price of the Company’s products, effective promotional efforts and the frequent introduction of generic products by competitors. Health Care Environment and Government Regulation Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access. In the United States, federal and state governments for many years also have pursued methods to reduce the cost of drugs and vaccines for which they pay. For example, federal laws require the Company to pay specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid and to provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain Public Health Service entities and hospitals serving a disproportionate share of low income or uninsured patients. Against this backdrop, the United States enacted major health care reform legislation in 2010 (the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act), which began to be implemented in 2010. Various insurance market reforms have advanced and state and federal insurance exchanges were launched in 2014. By the end of the decade, the law is expected to expand access to health care to about 32 million Americans who did not previously have insurance coverage. With respect to the effect of the law on the pharmaceutical industry, the law increased the mandated Medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1%, expanded the rebate to Medicaid managed care utilization, and increased the types of entities eligible for the federal 340B drug discount program. The law also requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay a 50% point of service discount to Medicare Part D beneficiaries when they are in the Medicare Part D coverage gap (i.e., the so-called “donut hole”). Approximately $550 million, $430 million and $280 million was recorded by Merck as a reduction to revenue in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, related to the donut hole provision. Also, pharmaceutical manufacturers are now required to pay an annual non-tax deductible health care reform fee. The total annual industry fee was $3.0 billion in 2015 and will remain $3.0 billion in 2016. The fee is assessed on each company in proportion to its share of prior year branded pharmaceutical sales to certain government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. The Company recorded $173 million, $390 million and $151 million of costs within Marketing and administrative expenses in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, for the annual health care reform fee. The higher expenses in 2014 reflect final regulations on the annual health care reform fee issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) on July 28, 2014. The final IRS regulations accelerated the recognition criteria for the fee obligation by one year to the year in which the underlying sales used to allocate the fee occurred rather than the year in which the fee was paid. As a result of this change, Merck recorded an additional year of expense of $193 million in 2014. On January 21, 2016, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services issued the Medicaid Rebate Final Rule that implements provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act effective April 1, 2016. The rule provides comprehensive guidance on the calculation of Average Manufacturer Price and Best Price; two metrics utilized to determine the rebates drug manufacturers are required to pay to state Medicaid programs. Merck is still evaluating the rule to determine whether it will have a material impact on Merck’s Medicaid rebate liability. The Company also faces increasing pricing pressure globally from managed care organizations, government agencies and programs that could negatively affect the Company’s sales and profit margins. In the United States, these include (i) practices of managed care organizations, federal and state exchanges, and institutional and governmental purchasers, and (ii) U.S. federal laws and regulations related to Medicare and Medicaid, including the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Changes to the health care system enacted as part of health care reform in the United States, as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, could result in further pricing pressures. As an example, health care reform is contributing to an increase in the number of patients in the Medicaid program under which sales of pharmaceutical products are subject to substantial rebates. In addition, in the effort to contain the U.S. federal deficit, the pharmaceutical industry could be considered a potential source of savings via legislative proposals that have been debated but not enacted. These types of revenue generating or cost saving proposals include additional direct price controls in the Medicare prescription drug program (Part D). In addition, Congress may again consider proposals to allow, under certain conditions, the importation of medicines from other countries. It remains very uncertain as to what proposals, if any, may be included as part of future federal budget deficit reduction proposals that would directly or indirectly affect the Company. 37 Table of Contents Efforts toward health care cost containment remain intense in several European countries. Many countries have continued to announce and execute austerity measures, which include the implementation of pricing actions to reduce prices of generic and patented drugs and mandatory switches to generic drugs. While the Company is taking steps to mitigate the impact in these countries, the austerity measures continued to negatively affect the Company’s revenue performance in 2015 and the Company anticipates the austerity measures will continue to negatively affect revenue performance in 2016. In addition, a majority of countries attempt to contain drug costs by engaging in reference pricing in which authorities examine pre-determined markets for published prices of drugs by brand. The authorities then use price data from those markets to set new local prices for brand-name drugs, including the Company’s. Guidelines for examining reference pricing are usually set in local markets and can be changed pursuant to local regulations. In addition, in Japan, the pharmaceutical industry is subject to government-mandated biennial price reductions of pharmaceutical products and certain vaccines, which will occur again in 2016. Furthermore, the government can order repricings for classes of drugs if it determines that it is appropriate under applicable rules. Certain markets outside of the United States have also implemented other cost management strategies, such as health technology assessments, which require additional data, reviews and administrative processes, all of which increase the complexity, timing and costs of obtaining product reimbursement and exert downward pressure on available reimbursement. The Company’s focus on emerging markets has increased. Governments in many emerging markets are also focused on constraining health care costs and have enacted price controls and related measures, such as compulsory licenses, that aim to put pressure on the price of pharmaceuticals and constrain market access. The Company anticipates that pricing pressures and market access challenges will continue in 2016 to varying degrees in the emerging markets. Beyond pricing and market access challenges, other conditions in emerging market countries can affect the Company’s efforts to continue to grow in these markets, including potential political instability, significant currency fluctuation and controls, financial crises, limited or changing availability of funding for health care, and other developments that may adversely impact the business environment for the Company. Further, the Company may engage third-party agents to assist in operating in emerging market countries, which may affect its ability to realize continued growth and may also increase the Company’s risk exposure. In addressing cost containment pressures, the Company engages in public policy advocacy with policymakers and continues to work to demonstrate that its medicines provide value to patients and to those who pay for health care. The Company advocates with government policymakers to encourage a long-term approach to sustainable health care financing that ensures access to innovative medicines and does not disproportionately target pharmaceuticals as a source of budget savings. In markets with historically low rates of health care spending, the Company encourages those governments to increase their investments and adopt market reforms in order to improve their citizens’ access to appropriate health care, including medicines. Operating conditions have become more challenging under the global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment efforts. Although no one can predict the effect of these and other factors on the Company’s business, the Company continually takes measures to evaluate, adapt and improve the organization and its business practices to better meet customer needs and believes that it is well positioned to respond to the evolving health care environment and market forces. The pharmaceutical industry is also subject to regulation by regional, country, state and local agencies around the world focused on standards and processes for determining drug safety and effectiveness, as well as conditions for sale or reimbursement. Of particular importance is the FDA in the United States, which administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. In some cases, the FDA requirements and practices have increased the amount of time and resources necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the United States. At the same time, the FDA has committed to expediting the development and review of products bearing the “breakthrough therapy” designation, which appears to have accelerated the regulatory review process for medicines with this designation. 38 Table of Contents The EU has adopted directives and other legislation concerning the classification, labeling, advertising, wholesale distribution, integrity of the supply chain, enhanced pharmacovigilance monitoring and approval for marketing of medicinal products for human use. These provide mandatory standards throughout the EU, which may be supplemented or implemented with additional regulations by the EU member states. The Company’s policies and procedures are already consistent with the substance of these directives; consequently, it is believed that they will not have any material effect on the Company’s business. The Company believes that it will continue to be able to conduct its operations, including launching new drugs, in this regulatory environment. Operating Results Sales Worldwide sales were $39.5 billion in 2015, a decline of 6% compared with 2014 including a 6% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The acquisition of Cubist in 2015, the divestiture of MCC in 2014, as well as product divestitures and the termination of the Company’s relationship with AstraZeneca LP (AZLP) also in 2014, as discussed below, had a net unfavorable impact to sales of approximately 3%. In addition, sales performance in 2015 reflects declines in PegIntron and Victrelis , medicines for the treatment of HCV, Remicade , a treatment for inflammatory diseases, Pneumovax 23, a vaccine to help prevent pneumococcal disease, Nasonex , an inhaled corticosteroid for the treatment of nasal allergy symptoms and Vytorin , a cholesterol modifying medicine. These declines were partially offset by volume growth in Keytruda , an anti-PD-1 therapy; Januvia and Janumet , for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, Gardasil/Gardasil 9, vaccines to help prevent certain diseases caused by certain types of human papillomavirus (HPV), Noxafil , for the prevention of invasive fungal infections, Simponi , a once-monthly subcutaneous treatment for inflammatory diseases, Implanon/Nexplanon , single-rod subdermal contraceptive implants, Invanz , for the treatment of certain infections, Dulera Inhalation Aerosol, a combination medicine for the treatment of asthma, and Bridion , a medication for the reversal of two types of neuromuscular blocking agents used during surgery, as well as volume growth in Animal Health products and higher third-party manufacturing sales. In January 2015, the Company acquired Cubist, which contributed sales of $1.3 billion to Merck’s revenues in 2015. In 2014, the Company divested certain ophthalmic products in several international markets (most of which closed on July 1, 2014). In addition, on October 1, 2014, the Company divested its MCC business including the prescription rights to Claritin and Afrin. The sales decline in 2015 attributable to these divestitures was approximately $1.9 billion of which $1.5 billion related to the Consumer Care segment and $400 million related to the Pharmaceutical segment. Also, in 2014, the Company sold the U.S. marketing rights to Saphris , an antipsychotic indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder in adults, which resulted in revenue of $232 million. Additionally, the Company’s relationship with AZLP terminated on June 30, 2014; therefore, effective July 1, 2014, the Company no longer records supply sales to AZLP. These supply sales were $463 million in 2014 through the termination date and were reflected in the Alliances segment. Sales in the United States were $17.5 billion in 2015 , an increase of 3% compared with $17.1 billion in 2014 . The increase was driven primarily by the acquisition of Cubist, as well as higher sales of Keytruda , Gardasil/Gardasil 9, Januvia/Janumet , Zetia , a cholesterol modifying medicine, and higher third-party manufacturing sales. These increases were partially offset by the 2014 divestiture of MCC, the termination of the Company’s relationship with AZLP in 2014, revenue recognized in 2014 in connection with the sale of the U.S. marketing rights to Saphris , as well as lower sales in 2015 of Pneumovax 23 and Nasonex . International sales were $22.0 billion in 2015 , a decline of 13% compared with $25.2 billion in 2014 . Foreign exchange unfavorably affected international sales performance by 11% in 2015 . Excluding the unfavorable effect of foreign exchange, the sales decrease reflects the divestiture of MCC, as well as lower sales in the Pharmaceutical segment, largely reflecting declines in Europe and Japan, partially offset by growth in the emerging markets. Sales in Europe declined 19% in 2015 , to $7.7 billion, including a 14% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. Excluding the unfavorable effect from foreign exchange, the decline was driven primarily by lower sales of Remicade , as well as lower sales of products for the treatment of HCV and from product divestitures and ongoing generic erosion and fiscal austerity measures in this region, partially offset by growth in Simponi , Keytruda , and Januvia/Janumet . Sales in Japan declined 23% in 2015 , to $2.6 billion, of which 11% was due to the unfavorable effect of foreign exchange. The sales decline was largely driven by product divestitures and the ongoing impacts of the loss of market exclusivity for several products, including Cozaar and Hyzaar , treatments for hypertension, as well as lower sales of PegIntron and Januvia . 39 Table of Contents Sales in the emerging markets were $7.3 billion in 2015 , a decline of 6% including an 11% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. Excluding the unfavorable effect of foreign exchange, sales performance reflects volume growth of diabetes, hospital acute care, oncology and certain diversified brand products, partially offset by lower sales of HCV products, as well as from product divestitures. Total international sales represented 56% and 60% of total sales in 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access worldwide. In the United States, health care reform is contributing to an increase in the number of patients in the Medicaid program under which sales of pharmaceutical products are subject to substantial rebates. In many international markets, government-mandated pricing actions have reduced prices of generic and patented drugs. In addition, other austerity measures negatively affected the Company’s revenue performance in 2015. The Company anticipates these pricing actions, including the biennial price reductions in Japan that will occur again in 2016, and other austerity measures will continue to negatively affect revenue performance in 2016. Worldwide sales totaled $42.2 billion in 2014, a decline of 4% compared with $44.0 billion in 2013. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 1% in 2014. The decline reflects lower revenue resulting from the ongoing impacts of the loss of market exclusivity for several products, including Temodar , a treatment for certain types of brain tumors, Singulair , a once-a-day oral medicine for the chronic treatment of asthma and for the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis, and Cozaar and Hyzaar . In addition, the sales decline was attributable to product divestitures that occurred in 2014 and 2013 as discussed below, the termination of the Company’s relationship with AZLP, as well as the divestiture of MCC. The revenue decline was also driven by lower sales of Victrelis and PegIntron , Nasonex , and Vytorin . These declines were partially offset by growth in Remicade and Simponi , the diabetes franchise of Januvia / Janumet , Dulera Inhalation Aerosol, Implanon / Nexplanon , as well as higher sales from hospital acute care and animal health products. In addition, the Company recognized revenue of $232 million in 2014 in connection with the sale of the U.S. marketing rights to Saphris. In October 2013, the Company sold its active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) manufacturing business and, effective December 31, 2013, certain related products within Diversified Brands. In November 2013, Merck sold the U.S. rights to certain ophthalmic products and in January 2014 sold the U.S. marketing rights to Saphris . In addition, the Company sold the U.S. rights to Zioptan in April 2014. Also in 2014, as noted above, the Company divested certain ophthalmic products in several international markets and sold its MCC business. The sales decline in 2014 attributable to these divestitures was approximately $1.1 billion, of which approximately $575 million related to the Pharmaceutical segment, $345 million related to the Consumer Care segment and $150 million related to the divested API manufacturing business (non-segment revenues). Also, the termination of the Company’s relationship with AZLP resulted in a sales decline of approximately $450 million in the Alliances segment in 2014 compared with 2013. 40 Table of Contents Sales of the Company’s products were as follows: ($ in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Primary Care and Women’s Health Cardiovascular Zetia $ 2,526 $ 2,650 $ 2,658 Vytorin 1,251 1,516 1,643 Diabetes Januvia 3,863 3,931 4,004 Janumet 2,151 2,071 1,829 General Medicine and Women’s Health NuvaRing 732 723 686 Implanon/Nexplanon 588 502 403 Dulera 536 460 324 Follistim AQ 383 412 481 Hospital and Specialty Hepatitis PegIntron 182 381 496 HIV Isentress 1,511 1,673 1,643 Hospital Acute Care Cubicin (1) 1,127 25 24 Cancidas 573 681 660 Invanz 569 529 488 Noxafil 487 402 309 Bridion 353 340 288 Primaxin 313 329 335 Immunology Remicade 1,794 2,372 2,271 Simponi 690 689 500 Oncology Keytruda 566 55 — Emend 535 553 507 Temodar 312 350 708 Diversified Brands Respiratory Singulair 931 1,092 1,196 Nasonex 858 1,099 1,335 Clarinex 187 232 235 Other Cozaar/Hyzaar 667 806 1,006 Arcoxia 471 519 484 Fosamax 359 470 560 Zocor 217 258 301 Propecia 183 264 283 Vaccines (2) Gardasil/Gardasil 9 1,908 1,738 1,831 ProQuad/M-M-R II /Varivax 1,505 1,394 1,306 Zostavax 749 765 758 RotaTeq 610 659 636 Pneumovax 23 542 746 653 Other pharmaceutical (3) 4,553 5,356 6,596 Total Pharmaceutical segment sales 34,782 36,042 37,437 Other segment sales (4) 3,659 5,758 6,397 Total segment sales 38,441 41,800 43,834 Other (5) 1,057 437 199 $ 39,498 $ 42,237 $ 44,033 (1) Sales of Cubicin in 2015 represent sales subsequent to the Cubist acquisition date. Sales of Cubicin in 2014 and 2013 reflect sales in Japan pursuant to a previously existing licensing agreement. (2) These amounts do not reflect sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through the Company’s joint venture, Sanofi Pasteur MSD, the results of which are reflected in equity income from affiliates which is included in Other (income) expense, net . These amounts do, however, reflect supply sales to Sanofi Pasteur MSD. (3) Other pharmaceutical primarily reflects sales of other human health pharmaceutical products, including products within the franchises not listed separately. (4) Represents the non-reportable segments of Animal Health, Alliances and Healthcare Services, as well as Consumer Care until its divestiture on October 1, 2014. The Alliances segment includes revenue from the Company’s relationship with AZLP until termination on June 30, 2014. (5) Other revenues are primarily comprised of miscellaneous corporate revenues, including revenue hedging activities, as well as third-party manufacturing sales. Other revenues in 2014 also include $232 million received by Merck in connection with the sale of the U.S. marketing rights to Saphris. Other revenues in 2013 reflect $50 million of revenue for the out-license of a pipeline compound. 41 Table of Contents Pharmaceutical Segment Primary Care and Women’s Health Cardiovascular Combined global sales of Zetia (marketed in most countries outside the United States as Ezetrol ) and Vytorin (marketed outside the United States as Inegy ), medicines for lowering LDL cholesterol, were $3.8 billion in 2015, a decline of 9% compared with 2014 including a 7% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The sales decline was driven primarily by lower volumes of Ezetrol in Canada where it lost market exclusivity in September 2014, as well as by lower volumes in the United States, partially offset by higher pricing in the United States. Combined worldwide sales of Zetia and Vytorin were $4.2 billion in 2014, a decline of 3% compared with 2013. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 1% in 2014. The sales decline was driven primarily by lower volumes of Vytorin in the United States and Ezetrol in Canada due to loss of market exclusivity. In November 2014, Merck announced that the investigational IMPROVE-IT study (IMProved Reduction of Outcomes: Vytorin Efficacy International Trial) met its primary and all secondary composite efficacy endpoints. In IMPROVE-IT, patients taking Vytorin - which combines simvastatin with Zetia - experienced significantly fewer major cardiovascular events (as measured by a composite of cardiovascular death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke, re-hospitalization for unstable angina or coronary revascularization occurring at least 30 days after randomization) than patients treated with simvastatin alone. The results from this 18,144 patient study of high-risk patients presenting with acute coronary syndromes were presented at the American Heart Association 2014 Scientific Sessions. In April 2015, Merck submitted the data from IMPROVE-IT to the FDA to support a new indication for reduction of cardiovascular events for Vytorin and Zetia . Vytorin and Zetia are currently indicated for use along with a healthy diet to reduce elevated LDL cholesterol in patients with hyperlipidemia. The current U.S. Prescribing Information for both products states that the effect of ezetimibe on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, alone or incremental to statin therapy, has not been determined. In February 2016, Merck announced that the FDA issued a Complete Response Letter (CRL) regarding Merck’s supplemental new drug applications. Merck is reviewing the letter and will determine next steps. Also, in February 2016, through a decentralized process, Merck received a positive outcome of the mutual recognition procedure for updated product information for Ezetrol and Inegy based on the results of IMPROVE-IT. Following the completion of this procedure, the EU Member States concerned will amend local labeling on a country by country basis to include the reduction of risk of cardiovascular events in patients with coronary heart disease and a history of acute coronary syndrome. By agreement, a generic manufacturer may launch a generic version of Zetia in the United States in December 2016. The U.S. patent and exclusivity periods for Zetia and Vytorin otherwise expire in April 2017. The Company has market exclusivity for Ezetrol in major European markets until October 2017; however, the Company expects to apply for pediatric extensions to the term which would extend the date to April 2018. The Company has market exclusivity for Inegy in those markets until April 2019. In May 2014, Merck announced that the FDA approved Zontivity for the reduction of thrombotic cardiovascular events in patients with a history of myocardial infarction or with peripheral arterial disease. The U.S. prescribing information for Zontivity includes a boxed warning regarding bleeding risk. In January 2015, Zontivity was approved by the EC for coadministration with acetylsalicylic acid and, where appropriate, clopidogrel, to reduce atherothrombotic events in adult patients with a history of myocardial infarction. Merck currently plans to begin launching Zontivity in certain European markets in 2016. The Company continues to monitor and assess Zontivity and the related intangible asset. Merck continues to focus on building product awareness in the United States for Zontivity . If the Company’s efforts to build product awareness in the United States or the launches in Europe are not successful, the Company may take a non-cash impairment charge with respect to the Zontivity intangible asset, which was $292 million at December 31, 2015 . Diabetes Worldwide combined sales of Januvia and Janumet , medicines that help lower blood sugar levels in adults with type 2 diabetes, were $6.0 billion in 2015, essentially flat as compared with 2014 including a 7% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. Sales performance reflects higher volumes and pricing in the United States, as well as volume growth in the emerging markets and Europe. Volume declines of co-marketed sitagliptin in Japan due to the timing of sales to the licensee partially offset growth in 2015. Combined global sales of Januvia and Janumet were $6.0 billion in 2014, an increase of 3% compared with 2013 including a 1% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. 42 Table of Contents The growth was driven primarily by higher sales of both Januvia and Janumet in the United States and by volume growth in Europe, partially offset by lower sales of Januvia in Japan due to lower pricing. In April 2014, all DPP-4 inhibitors, including Januvia , were subject to repricing in Japan. In June 2015, Merck announced the primary results of the Trial Evaluating Cardiovascular Outcomes with Sitagliptin (TECOS), a placebo-controlled study of the cardiovascular (CV) safety of Merck’s DPP-4 inhibitor Januvia (sitagliptin), added to usual care in more than 14,000 patients. The study achieved its primary composite CV endpoint of non-inferiority (defined as the time to the first confirmed event of any of the following: CV-related death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or hospitalization for unstable angina) compared to usual care without sitagliptin. In addition, there was no increase in hospitalization for heart failure and rates of all-cause mortality were similar in both treatments groups, which were two key secondary endpoints. These data were presented at the annual scientific meeting of the American Diabetes Association in June 2015. In September 2015, Merck announced that the Japanese Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency approved Marizev (omarigliptin) 25 mg and 12.5 mg tablets, an oral, once-weekly DPP-4 inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes. Japan is the first country to have approved omarigliptin. Other worldwide regulatory submissions will follow. General Medicine and Women’s Health Worldwide sales of NuvaRing , a vaginal contraceptive product, were $732 million in 2015, an increase of 1% compared with 2014, and were $723 million in 2014, an increase of 5% compared with 2013. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 7% and 1% in 2015 and 2014, respectively. Sales growth in both years largely reflects higher pricing in the United States. Worldwide sales of Implanon/Nexplanon , single-rod subdermal contraceptive implants, rose to $588 million in 2015, a 17% increase compared with 2014 including a 6% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The increase was driven primarily by higher demand in the United States and in the emerging markets. Implanon/Nexplanon sales grew 25% to $502 million in 2014 compared with 2013 driven primarily by higher demand in the United States. Global sales of Dulera Inhalation Aerosol, a combination medicine for the treatment of asthma, grew 16% in 2015 to $536 million and increased 42% in 2014 to $460 million driven primarily by higher demand in the United States. Global sales of Follistim AQ (marketed in most countries outside the United States as Puregon ), a fertility treatment, were $383 million in 2015, a decline of 7% compared with 2014, reflecting a 9% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange that was offset by higher pricing in the United States. Worldwide sales of Follistim AQ declined 14% to $412 million in 2014 compared with 2013 driven largely by lower pricing in the United States, as well as by lower sales in Europe driven primarily by volume declines. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 1% in 2014. The patent that provided market exclusivity for Follistim AQ in the United States expired in June 2015. Hospital and Specialty Hepatitis Worldwide sales of PegIntron , a treatment for chronic HCV, were $182 million in 2015, a decline of 52% compared with 2014 including a 5% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The decline was driven by lower volumes in nearly all regions as the availability of newer therapeutic options continues to reduce market share. Global sales of PegIntron were $381 million in 2014, a decline of 23% compared with 2013 including a 3% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The decrease was driven by lower volumes in most regions as the availability of newer therapeutic options resulted in loss of market share or led to patient treatment delays in markets anticipating the availability of new therapeutic options. Global sales of Victrelis , an oral medicine for the treatment of chronic HCV, were $18 million in 2015, a decline of 89% compared with 2014, driven by lower volumes in Europe and the emerging markets as the availability of newer therapeutic options continues to reduce market share. Worldwide sales of Victrelis were $153 million in 2014, a decline of 64% compared with 2013, driven by lower volumes in nearly all regions, particularly within the United States, as the availability of newer therapeutic options resulted in loss of market share or led to patient treatment delays in markets anticipating the availability of newer therapeutic options. 43 Table of Contents In January 2016, the FDA approved Zepatier for the treatment of adult patients with chronic HCV GT1 or GT4 infection, with or without ribavirin. Zepatier is a once-daily, fixed-dose combination tablet containing the NS5A inhibitor elbasvir (50 mg) and the NS3/4A protease inhibitor grazoprevir (100 mg). The FDA previously granted two Breakthrough Therapy designations to Zepatier , for the treatment of chronic HCV GT1 infection in patients with end stage renal disease on hemodialysis, and for the treatment of patients with chronic HCV GT4 infection. Breakthrough Therapy designation is given to investigational medicines for serious or life-threatening conditions that may offer substantial improvement over existing therapies. Across multiple clinical studies, Zepatier achieved high rates of sustained virologic response ranging from 94% to 97% in GT1-infected patients, and 97% to 100% in GT4-infected patients. Sustained virologic response is defined as HCV RNA levels measuring less than the lower limit of quantification at 12 weeks after the cessation of treatment, indicating that a patient’s HCV infection has been cured. Zepatier became available in the United States in February 2016. Zepatier is under review in the EU. HIV Worldwide sales of Isentress, an HIV integrase inhibitor for use in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection, were $1.5 billion in 2015, a decline of 10% compared with 2014 including an 8% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The decline was driven primarily by lower volumes in the United States and lower demand and pricing in Europe due to competitive pressures, partially offset by higher volumes in Latin America and higher pricing in the United States. Global sales of Isentress increased 2% in 2014 to $1.7 billion compared with 2013 primarily reflecting volume growth in Europe and the emerging markets, particularly in Latin America resulting from government tenders, partially offset by volume declines in the United States reflecting competitive pressures. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 1% in 2014. Hospital Acute Care In January 2015, Merck acquired Cubist, a leader in the development of therapies to treat serious infections caused by a broad range of bacteria. Cubist’s products include Cubicin , an I.V. antibiotic for complicated skin and skin structure infections or bacteremia, when caused by designated susceptible organisms. Sales of Cubicin were $1.1 billion in 2015 subsequent to the acquisition. The U.S. composition patent for Cubicin expires in June 2016 and significant losses of Cubicin sales are expected to occur thereafter. In many markets outside of the United States, Cubicin is commercialized by other companies in accordance with distribution agreements established prior to Merck’s acquisition of Cubist. In the fourth quarter of 2015, Merck entered into agreements to reacquire the marketing rights to Cubicin in certain international markets (including Europe, Latin America, Australia, New Zealand, China, South Africa and certain other Asia Pacific countries). Cubist’s products also include Zerbaxa , a combination product approved by the FDA in December 2014 for the treatment of adults with complicated urinary tract infections caused by designated susceptible Gram-negative organisms or with complicated intra-abdominal infections caused by designated susceptible Gram-negative and Gram-positive organisms, and Sivextro , a product approved by the FDA in June 2014 for the treatment of acute bacterial skin and skin structure infections (ABSSSI) in adults caused by designated susceptible Gram-positive organisms. Sivextro was also approved by the EC in March 2015 for the treatment of ABSSSI in adults. The Company began launching Sivextro in the second quarter of 2015. In September 2015, Zerbaxa was approved by the EC for the treatment of complicated intra-abdominal infections, acute pyelonephritis, and complicated urinary tract infections in adults. Zerbaxa and Sivextro are in Phase 3 development in the United States for the treatment of hospital-acquired bacterial pneumonia and ventilator-associated bacterial pneumonia. Global sales of Cancidas , an anti-fungal product, were $573 million in 2015, a decrease of 16% compared with 2014 reflecting a 12% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange and volume declines in certain emerging markets. Worldwide sales of Cancidas grew 3% in 2014 to $681 million compared with 2013 largely reflecting volume growth in the Asia Pacific region, particularly in China. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 1% in 2014. Worldwide sales of Noxafil , for the prevention of invasive fungal infections, grew 21% in 2015 to $487 million and increased 30% in 2014 to $402 million driven by pricing and higher demand in the United States and volume growth in Europe reflecting a positive impact from the approval of new formulations. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 12% in 2015. 44 Table of Contents Sales of Bridion , for the reversal of two types of neuromuscular blocking agents used during surgery, grew 4% in 2015 to $353 million and rose 18% in 2014 to $340 million driven by volume growth in the international markets where it is sold. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 19% in 2015 and 6% in 2014. Bridion is approved and marketed in many countries outside of the United States. In December 2015, the FDA approved Bridion for the reversal of neuromuscular blockade induced by rocuronium bromide and vecuronium bromide in adults undergoing surgery. Immunology Sales of Remicade, a treatment for inflammatory diseases (marketed by the Company in Europe, Russia and Turkey), were $1.8 billion in 2015, a decline of 24% compared with 2014 including a 14% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. In February 2015, the Company lost market exclusivity for Remicade in major European markets and no longer has market exclusivity in any of its marketing territories. The Company is experiencing pricing and volume declines in these markets as a result of biosimilar competition. While the Company has retained a majority of its existing patients, the Company has lost market share as new patients are prescribed biosimilars. The Company expects the Remicade sales decline to accelerate throughout 2016. Sales of Remicade were $2.4 billion in 2014, an increase of 4% compared with 2013 reflecting sales growth in Europe, partially offset by a decline in Russia. Sales of Simponi , a once-monthly subcutaneous treatment for certain inflammatory diseases (marketed by the Company in Europe, Russia and Turkey), were $690 million in 2015, essentially flat as compared with 2014, driven by higher demand in Europe, reflecting in part an ongoing positive impact from the ulcerative colitis indication, which was offset by a 19% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. Sales of Simponi grew 38% in 2014 to $689 million compared with 2013 driven by demand in Europe reflecting in part a positive impact from the ulcerative colitis indication. Other products contained in Hospital and Specialty include among others, Invanz for the treatment of certain infections; and Primaxin , an anti-bacterial product. Oncology Sales of Keytruda , an anti-PD-1 (programmed death receptor-1) therapy, were $566 million in 2015 and $55 million in 2014. The increase primarily reflects higher sales in the United States, as well as in the emerging markets and Europe as the Company continues to launch Keytruda . In September 2014, the FDA granted accelerated approval of Keytruda at a dose of 2 mg/kg every three weeks for the treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma and disease progression following ipilimumab and, if BRAF V600 mutation positive, a BRAF inhibitor. In December 2015, the Company announced that the FDA approved an expanded indication for Keytruda to include the first-line treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma regardless of BRAF status. Additionally, the FDA approved an update to the product labeling for Keytruda for the treatment of patients with ipilimumab-refractory advanced melanoma. In addition, in October 2015, the FDA granted accelerated approval of Keytruda at a dose of 2 mg/kg every three weeks for the treatment of patients with metastatic NSCLC whose tumors express PD-L1 as determined by an FDA-approved test and who have disease progression on or after platinum-containing chemotherapy across both squamous and non-squamous metastatic NSCLC. Patients with EGFR or ALK genomic tumor aberrations should have disease progression on FDA-approved therapy for these aberrations prior to receiving Keytruda . In addition to approving Keytruda for NSCLC, the FDA approved the first companion diagnostic that will enable physicians to determine the level of PD-L1 expression in a patient’s tumor. In July 2015, Merck announced that the EC approved Keytruda for the treatment of advanced (unresectable or metastatic) melanoma in adults. In October 2015, Merck announced the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) of the UK issued a draft recommendation, in the form of a Final Appraisal Determination, recommending Keytruda as a first-line treatment option for adults with advanced melanoma. In addition, the NICE issued final guidance recommending Keytruda for the treatment of advanced melanoma after disease progression with ipilimumab. The Company has made additional regulatory filings in other countries and further filings are planned. The Keytruda clinical development program includes studies across a broad range of cancer types (see “Research and Development” below). 45 Table of Contents Global sales of Emend , for the prevention of chemotherapy-induced and post-operative nausea and vomiting, were $535 million in 2015, a decline of 3% reflecting a 6% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange that was partially offset by higher pricing in the United States and volume growth in Europe. Worldwide sales of Emend were $553 million in 2014, an increase of 9% compared with 2013 including a 1% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange, largely reflecting volume growth in most regions. In February 2016, Merck announced that the FDA approved a supplemental new drug application for single-dose Emend for injection for the prevention of delayed nausea and vomiting in adults receiving initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic chemotherapy. With this approval, Emend for injection is the first intravenous single-dose NK1 receptor antagonist approved in the United States for both highly emetogenic chemotherapy as well as moderately emetogenic chemotherapy. Sales of Temodar (marketed as Temodal outside the United States), a treatment for certain types of brain tumors, were $312 million in 2015, a decline of 11% compared with 2014, reflecting a 14% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange that was partially offset by growth in the emerging markets. Global sales of Temodar declined 51% to $350 million in 2014. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 3% in 2014. The sales decline in 2014 was driven primarily by generic competition in the United States, as well as in Europe. By agreement, a generic manufacturer launched a generic version of Temodar in the United States in August 2013. The U.S. patent and exclusivity periods otherwise expired in February 2014. Diversified Brands Merck’s diversified brands include human health pharmaceutical products that are approaching the expiration of their marketing exclusivity or are no longer protected by patents in developed markets, but continue to be a core part of the Company’s offering in other markets around the world. Respiratory Worldwide sales of Singulair, a once-a-day oral medicine for the chronic treatment of asthma and for the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis, were $931 million in 2015, a decline of 15% compared with 2014 including a 10% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The sales decline in 2015 was driven primarily by lower volumes in Japan and lower demand in Europe as a result of generic competition. Global sales of Singulair were $1.1 billion in 2014, a decline of 9% compared with 2013 including a 5% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange, primarily reflecting lower sales in Europe as a result of generic competition. The Company has lost market exclusivity for Singulair in the United States and in most major international markets with the exception of Japan and expects generic competition in these markets to continue. The patent that provides market exclusivity for Singulair in Japan will expire in 2016. Singulair sales in Japan were $452 million in 2015. Global sales of Nasonex , an inhaled nasal corticosteroid for the treatment of nasal allergy symptoms, were $858 million in 2015, a decline of 22% compared with 2014 including a 6% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The decline was driven primarily by lower volumes in the United States reflecting competition from alternative generic treatment options, as well as from supply constraints. The supply issue was resolved and Nasonex became available again in October. In addition, lower volumes and pricing in Europe from ongoing generic erosion also contributed to the Nasonex sales decline. By agreement, generic manufacturers were able to launch a generic version of Nasonex in most European markets on January 1, 2014 and generic versions of Nasonex have since launched in most of these markets. Accordingly, the Company continues to experience volume and pricing declines in Nasonex sales in Europe. Worldwide sales of Nasonex decreased 18% to $1.1 billion in 2014 compared with 2013. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 2% in 2014. The sales decline was driven primarily by lower demand in the United States, as well as by lower volumes in Europe and Canada resulting from generic competition. In 2009, Apotex Inc. and Apotex Corp. (collectively, Apotex) filed an application with the FDA seeking approval to sell its generic version of Nasonex . In June 2012, the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey ruled against the Company in a patent infringement suit against Apotex holding that Apotex’s generic version of Nasonex does not infringe on the Company’s formulation patent. In June 2013, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a decision affirming the U.S. District Court decision and the Company has exhausted all of its appeal options. Apotex has not yet launched a generic version of Nasonex in the United States; however, if Apotex’s generic version becomes available, significant losses of U.S. Nasonex sales could occur. U.S. sales of Nasonex were $449 million in 2015 . 46 Table of Contents Other Global sales of Cozaar and its companion agent Hyzaar (a combination of Cozaar and hydrochlorothiazide), treatments for hypertension, declined 17% in 2015 to $667 million and decreased 20% in 2014 to $806 million. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 9% and 4% in 2015 and 2014, respectively. The patents that provided market exclusivity for Cozaar and Hyzaar in the United States and in most major international markets have expired. Accordingly, the Company is experiencing declines in Cozaar and Hyzaar sales and expects the declines to continue. Worldwide sales of ophthalmic products Cosopt and Trusopt were $61 million in 2015, $257 million in 2014 and $416 million in 2013. The declines were driven largely by the divestiture of Cosopt and Trusopt in many international markets in 2014. In addition, the sale of the U.S. rights to Cosopt and Cosopt PF in 2013 also contributed to the sales decline in 2014 as compared with 2013. In December 2015, the Company divested its remaining ophthalmics portfolio in international markets to Mundipharma Ophthalmology Products Limited (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). Other products contained in Diversified Brands include among others, Clarinex , a non-sedating antihistamine; Arcoxia for the treatment of arthritis and pain (which the Company markets outside the United States); Fosamax (marketed as Fosamac in Japan) and Fosamax Plus D (marketed as Fosavance throughout the EU) for the treatment and, in the case of Fosamax , prevention of osteoporosis; Zocor , a statin for modifying cholesterol; and Propecia , a product for the treatment of male pattern hair loss. Vaccines The following discussion of vaccines does not include sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through Sanofi Pasteur MSD (SPMSD), the Company’s joint venture with Sanofi Pasteur, the results of which are reflected in equity income from affiliates included in Other (income) expense, net (see “Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information” below). Supply sales to SPMSD, however, are included. Merck’s sales of Gardasil/Gardasil 9, vaccines to help prevent certain diseases caused by certain types of HPV, were $1.9 billion in 2015, an increase of 10% compared with 2014 including a 1% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. Sales growth was driven primarily by higher sales in the United States resulting from higher pricing and increased volumes reflecting the timing of public sector purchases, as well as increased government tenders in the Asia Pacific region, partially offset by declines in Latin America due to both price and volume. Gardasil 9, Merck’s 9-valent HPV vaccine, was approved by the FDA in December 2014 for use in girls and young women 9 to 26 years of age. Gardasil 9 includes the greatest number of HPV types in any available HPV vaccine. In December 2015, the FDA approved an expanded age indication for Gardasil 9, to include use in males 16 through 26 years of age for the prevention of anal cancers, precancerous or dysplastic lesions and genital warts caused by certain HPV types. Merck’s sales of Gardasil were $1.7 billion in 2014, a decline of 5% compared with 2013 including a 2% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The decline reflects lower sales in Asia Pacific, Japan and Canada, partially offset by higher government tenders in Brazil from the national immunization program, as well as higher public sector purchases in the United States. Sales in 2014 and 2013 included $56 million and $37 million, respectively, of purchases for the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Pediatric Vaccine Stockpile. The Company is a party to certain third-party license agreements with respect to Gardasil/Gardasil 9 (including a cross-license and settlement agreement with GlaxoSmithKline). As a result of these agreements, the Company pays royalties on worldwide Gardasil/Gardasil 9 sales of 17% to 25% which vary by country and are included in Materials and production costs. Merck’s sales of ProQuad , a pediatric combination vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps, rubella and varicella, were $454 million in 2015, $395 million in 2014 and $314 million in 2013. Sales growth in 2015 as compared with 2014 was driven by higher sales in the United States reflecting increased volumes, which were driven in part by measles outbreaks in the United States, as well as higher pricing. The increase in 2014 as compared with 2013 was driven primarily by higher sales in the United States reflecting approximately $30 million of government purchases for the CDC Pediatric Vaccine Stockpile. Merck’s sales of M-M-R II, a vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps and rubella, were $365 million in 2015, $326 million in 2014 and $307 million in 2013. Sales growth in 2015 as compared with 2014 was driven by higher demand resulting from measles outbreaks in the United States and higher pricing. 47 Table of Contents Merck’s sales of Varivax, a vaccine to help prevent chickenpox (varicella), were $686 million in 2015, $672 million in 2014 and $684 million in 2013. Sales growth in 2015 as compared with 2014 reflects higher volumes in certain emerging markets and higher pricing in the United States, partially offset by lower volumes in the United States. Sales performance in 2014 as compared with 2013 reflects lower sales in the United States largely offset by growth in the emerging markets. Merck’s sales of Zostavax, a vaccine to help prevent shingles (herpes zoster) in adults 50 years of age and older, were $749 million in 2015, a decline of 2% compared with 2014 including a 2% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. Sales performance in 2015 as compared with 2014 reflects lower volumes in the United States, partially offset by higher demand in Canada and higher pricing in the United States. Merck’s sales of Zostavax were $765 million in 2014, an increase of 1% compared with 2013, driven primarily by higher sales in the Asia Pacific region due to ongoing launches, partially offset by lower demand in the United States, as well as in Canada. The Company is continuing to educate U.S. customers on the broad managed care coverage for Zostavax and the process for obtaining reimbursement. Merck is continuing to launch Zostavax outside of the United States. Merck’s sales of RotaTeq, a vaccine to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children, were $610 million in 2015, a decline of 7% compared with 2014 including a 3% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The decline was driven primarily by the effects of public sector purchasing in the United States. Merck’s sales of RotaTeq increased 4% in 2014 to $659 million compared with 2013 primarily reflecting higher sales in certain emerging markets. Merck’s sales of Pneumovax 23, a vaccine to help prevent pneumococcal disease, declined 27% in 2015 to $542 million compared with 2014 driven primarily by lower demand in the United States due to near term market dynamics and sales in the emerging markets. Merck’s sales of Pneumovax 23 grew 14% in 2014 to $746 million compared with 2013 driven primarily by higher sales in Japan from the national immunization program, as well as higher sales in the United States attributable to both price and volume. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected sales performance by 2% and 3% in 2015 and 2014, respectively. Other Segments The Company’s other segments are the Animal Health, Alliances and Healthcare Services segments, which are not material for separate reporting. Prior to its disposition on October 1, 2014, the Company also had a Consumer Care segment which had sales of $1.5 billion in 2014 and $1.9 billion in 2013. Animal Health Animal Health includes pharmaceutical and vaccine products for the prevention, treatment and control of disease in all major farm and companion animal species. Animal Health sales are affected by competition and the frequent introduction of generic products. Global sales of Animal Health products were $3.3 billion in 2015, a decline of 4% compared with 2014 including a 13% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. Sales performance in 2015 reflects volume growth in companion animal products, driven primarily by higher sales of Bravecto chewable tablets for dogs to treat fleas and ticks that began launching in Europe and the United States in 2014, as well as volume growth in swine and aqua products. Worldwide sales of Animal Health products totaled $3.5 billion in 2014, growth of 3% compared with 2013 including a 2% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The sales growth was driven primarily by higher sales of companion animal products, reflecting the launch of Bravecto in Europe and the United States, as well as higher sales of poultry and aqua products, partially offset by lower sales of Zilmax , a feed supplement for beef cattle. Alliances The Alliances segment includes results from the Company’s relationship with AZLP. On June 30, 2014, AstraZeneca exercised its option to buy Merck’s interest in a subsidiary and, through it, Merck’s interest in Nexium and Prilosec. As a result, as of July 1, 2014, the Company no longer records equity income from AZLP and supply sales to AZLP, primarily relating to sales of Nexium and Prilosec, have terminated (see “Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information” below). Revenue from AZLP was $463 million in 2014 through the June 30 termination date and $920 million in 2013. 48 Table of Contents Costs, Expenses and Other ($ in millions) 2015 Change 2014 Change 2013 Materials and production $ 14,934 -11 % $ 16,768 -1 % $ 16,954 Marketing and administrative 10,313 -11 % 11,606 -3 % 11,911 Research and development (1) 6,704 -7 % 7,180 -4 % 7,503 Restructuring costs 619 -39 % 1,013 -41 % 1,709 Other (income) expense, net 1,527 * (11,613 ) * 411 $ 34,097 37 % $ 24,954 -35 % $ 38,488 * 100% or greater. (1) Includes $63 million , $49 million and $279 million of IPR&D impairment charges in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Materials and Production Materials and production costs were $14.9 billion in 2015 , $16.8 billion in 2014 and $17.0 billion in 2013 . Costs include expenses for the amortization of intangible assets recorded in connection with business acquisitions which totaled $4.7 billion in 2015, $4.2 billion in 2014 and $4.7 billion in 2013. In addition, expenses for 2015 include $105 million of amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to Cubist’s inventories. Costs in 2015, 2014 and 2013 also include intangible asset impairment charges of $45 million , $1.1 billion and $486 million , respectively, related to marketed products and other intangibles (see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). The Company may recognize additional non-cash impairment charges in the future related to intangibles that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with acquisitions and such charges could be material. Additionally, costs in 2013 include a $41 million intangible asset impairment charge related to a licensing agreement. Also included in materials and production are costs associated with restructuring activities which amounted to $361 million , $482 million and $446 million in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively, including accelerated depreciation and asset write-offs related to the planned sale or closure of manufacturing facilities. Separation costs associated with manufacturing-related headcount reductions have been incurred and are reflected in Restructuring costs as discussed below. Gross margin was 62.2% in 2015 compared with 60.3% in 2014 and 61.5% in 2013 . The amortization of intangible assets and purchase accounting adjustments to inventories, as well as the restructuring and impairment charges noted above reduced gross margin by 13.2 percentage points in 2015 , 13.6 percentage points in 2014 and 12.8 percentage points in 2013 . Excluding these impacts, the gross margin improvement in 2015 as compared with 2014 was driven primarily by the favorable effects of foreign exchange and lower inventory write-offs, as well as the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures. The gross margin decline in 2014 as compared with 2013 was driven primarily by the unfavorable effects of inventory write-offs largely related to Victrelis , as well as by changes in product mix, partially offset by the sale of the U.S. marketing rights to Saphris . Marketing and Administrative Marketing and administrative expenses declined 11% in 2015 to $10.3 billion in 2015 largely reflecting the favorable effects from foreign exchange, the prior year divestiture of MCC, additional expenses in the prior year related to the health care reform fee as discussed below, lower restructuring costs, as well as lower selling costs, partially offset by higher promotional spending largely related to product launches, as well as higher costs related to the January acquisition of Cubist and higher acquisition and divestiture-related costs. Marketing and administrative expenses decreased 3% in 2014 to $11.6 billion driven primarily by lower selling costs and promotional spending, the divestiture of MCC and the favorable effects of foreign exchange, partially offset by an additional year of expense related to the health care reform fee, as well as higher acquisition and divestiture-related costs. Expenses for 2015 , 2014 and 2013 include restructuring costs of $78 million , $200 million and $145 million , respectively, related primarily to accelerated depreciation for facilities to be closed or divested. Separation costs associated with sales force reductions have been incurred and are reflected in Restructuring costs as discussed below. Expenses also include $436 million, $234 million and $94 million of acquisition and divestiture-related costs in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, consisting of integration, transaction, and certain other costs related to business acquisitions, including severance costs which are not part of the Company’s formal restructuring programs, as well as transaction and certain other costs related to divestitures. 49 Table of Contents On July 28, 2014, the IRS issued final regulations on the annual non-tax deductible health care reform fee imposed by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act that is based on an allocation of a company’s market share of prior year branded pharmaceutical sales to certain government programs. The final IRS regulations accelerated the recognition criteria for the fee obligation by one year to the year in which the underlying sales used to allocate the fee occurred rather than the year in which the fee was paid. As a result of this change, Merck recorded an additional year of expense of $193 million during 2014. Research and Development Research and development expenses were $6.7 billion in 2015 , a decline of 7% compared with $7.2 billion in 2014 driven primarily by the favorable effects of foreign exchange, expenses recognized in the prior year to increase the estimated fair value of liabilities for contingent consideration, lower restructuring costs, a charge in the prior year related to a collaboration with Bayer AG (Bayer) and the prior year divestiture of MCC, partially offset by the acquisition of Cubist, higher licensing costs and higher clinical development spending. Research and development expenses declined 4% in 2014 to $7.2 billion compared with $7.5 billion in 2013 reflecting targeted reductions and lower clinical development spend as a result of portfolio prioritization, cost savings resulting from restructuring activities and lower acquired in-process research and development (IPR&D) impairment charges, partially offset by higher charges to increase the estimated fair value of liabilities for contingent consideration, higher restructuring costs and a charge related to a collaboration with Bayer. Research and development expenses are comprised of the costs directly incurred by Merck Research Laboratories (MRL), the Company’s research and development division that focuses on human health-related activities, which were approximately $4.0 billion in 2015, $3.7 billion in 2014 and $4.2 billion in 2013. Also included in research and development expenses are costs incurred by other divisions in support of research and development activities, including depreciation, production and general and administrative, as well as licensing activity, and certain costs from operating segments, including the Pharmaceutical and Animal Health segments, which in the aggregate were $2.6 billion, $2.8 billion and $2.9 billion for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Research and development expenses also include IPR&D impairment charges of $63 million , $49 million and $279 million in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively (see “Research and Development” below). The Company may recognize additional non-cash impairment charges in the future for the cancellation or delay of other pipeline programs that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with acquisitions and such charges could be material. In addition, research and development expenses include expense or income related to changes in the estimated fair value measurement of liabilities for contingent consideration recorded in connection with acquisitions. During 2015, the Company recorded a reduction of expenses of $24 million to decrease the fair value of liabilities for contingent consideration and during 2014 recorded a charge of $316 million to increase the estimated fair value of liabilities for contingent consideration (see Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements). Research and development expenses in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 also reflect $52 million , $283 million and $101 million , respectively, of accelerated depreciation and asset abandonment costs associated with restructuring activities. Restructuring Costs Restructuring costs, primarily representing separation and other related costs associated with restructuring activities, were $619 million , $1.0 billion and $1.7 billion in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Costs in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 include $363 million , $594 million and $898 million , respectively, of expenses related to the 2013 Restructuring Program. The remaining costs in 2015, 2014 and nearly all of the remaining costs recorded in 2013 related to the Merger Restructuring Program. In 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , separation costs of $208 million , $674 million and $1.4 billion , respectively, were incurred associated with actual headcount reductions, as well as estimated expenses under existing severance programs for headcount reductions that were probable and could be reasonably estimated. Positions eliminated under the 2013 Restructuring Program were approximately 2,535 in 2015 , 4,555 in 2014 and 1,540 in 2013 . Positions eliminated under the Merger Restructuring Program were approximately 1,235 in 2015 , 1,530 in 2014 and 4,475 in 2013 . These position eliminations are comprised of actual headcount reductions, and the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. Also included in restructuring costs are asset abandonment, shut-down and other related costs, as well as employee-related costs such as curtailment, settlement and termination charges associated with pension and other postretirement benefit plans and share-based compensation plan costs. For segment reporting, restructuring costs are unallocated expenses. Additional costs associated with the Company’s restructuring activities are included in Materials and production , Marketing and administrative and Research and development as discussed above. 50 Table of Contents Other (Income) Expense, Net Other (income) expense, net was $1.5 billion of expense in 2015 compared with $11.6 billion of income in 2014. The unfavorability was driven primarily by gains recognized in 2014, including an $11.2 billion gain related to the divestiture of MCC (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements), a $741 million gain related to AstraZeneca’s option exercise (see Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements), a $480 million gain on the divestiture of certain ophthalmic products in several international markets (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements) and a $204 million gain related to the divestiture of the Company’s Sirna Therapeutics, Inc. subsidiary (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). The unfavorability was also driven by a $680 million net charge recorded in 2015 related to the settlement of Vioxx shareholder class action litigation (see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements), foreign exchange losses of $876 million in 2015 related to the devaluation of the Company’s net monetary assets in Venezuela (see Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements), and lower equity income from AZLP. Partially offsetting the unfavorability of these items was a $628 million loss on extinguishment of debt in 2014 (see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements), a $250 million gain in 2015 on the sale of certain migraine clinical development programs (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements), a $147 million gain on the divestiture of the Company’s remaining ophthalmics business in international markets (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements), higher equity income from certain research investment funds, and a $93 million goodwill impairment charge in 2014 related to the Company’s joint venture with Supera (see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). Other (income) expense, net was $11.6 billion of income in 2014 compared with $411 million of expense in 2013 driven primarily by gains recognized in 2014 as noted above, lower foreign exchange losses due to a Venezuelan currency devaluation in 2013, partially offset by charges recognized in 2014 related to the extinguishment of debt and goodwill impairment as noted above, as well as lower equity income from AZLP in 2014. Segment Profits ($ in millions) 2015 2014 2013 Pharmaceutical segment profits $ 21,658 $ 22,164 $ 22,983 Other non-reportable segment profits 1,659 2,458 3,049 Other (17,916 ) (7,339 ) (20,487 ) Income before income taxes $ 5,401 $ 17,283 $ 5,545 Segment profits are comprised of segment sales less standard costs, certain operating expenses directly incurred by the segment, components of equity income or loss from affiliates and certain depreciation and amortization expenses. For internal management reporting presented to the chief operating decision maker, Merck does not allocate materials and production costs, other than standard costs, the majority of research and development expenses or general and administrative expenses, nor the cost of financing these activities. Separate divisions maintain responsibility for monitoring and managing these costs, including depreciation related to fixed assets utilized by these divisions and, therefore, they are not included in segment profits. Also excluded from the determination of segment profits are acquisition and divestiture-related costs, including the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments and intangible asset impairment charges, restructuring costs, taxes paid at the joint venture level and a portion of equity income. Additionally, segment profits do not reflect other expenses from corporate and manufacturing cost centers and other miscellaneous income or expense. These unallocated items, including gains on divestitures, a net charge related to the settlement of Vioxx shareholder class action litigation, the gain on AstraZeneca’s option exercise, foreign exchange losses related to the devaluation of the Company’s net monetary assets in Venezuela, the loss on extinguishment of debt and an additional year of expense related to the health care reform fee, are reflected in “Other” in the above table. Also included in “Other” are miscellaneous corporate profits (losses), as well as operating profits (losses) related to third-party manufacturing sales. Pharmaceutical segment profits declined 2% in 2015 compared with 2014 primarily reflecting the unfavorable effect of foreign exchange. Pharmaceutical segment profits declined 4% in 2014 compared with 2013 driven primarily by the unfavorable effects of product divestitures and loss of market exclusivity for certain products, partially offset by cost savings from productivity measures. The declines in other segment profits in 2015 and 2014 reflect the termination of the Company’s relationship with AZLP, as well as the divestiture of MCC. 51 Table of Contents Taxes on Income The effective income tax rates of 17.4% in 2015 , 30.9% in 2014 and 18.5% in 2013 reflect the impacts of acquisition and divestiture-related costs and restructuring costs, partially offset by the beneficial impact of foreign earnings. The effective income tax rate for 2015 also reflects the favorable impact of a net benefit of $410 million related to the settlement of certain federal income tax issues, the impact of the net charge related to the settlement of Vioxx shareholder class action litigation being fully deductible at combined U.S. federal and state tax rates and the favorable impact of tax legislation enacted in the fourth quarter of 2015, as well as the unfavorable effect of non-tax deductible foreign exchange losses related to Venezuela (see Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements). The effective income tax rate for 2014 reflects the impact of the gain on the divestiture of MCC being taxed at combined U.S. federal and state tax rates. In addition, the effective income tax rate for 2014 includes a net tax benefit of $517 million recorded in connection with AstraZeneca’s option exercise (see Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements) and a benefit of approximately $300 million associated with a capital loss generated in connection with the sale of Sirna (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). The effective income tax rate for 2014 also includes the unfavorable impact of an additional year of expense for the non-tax deductible health care reform fee that the Company recorded in accordance with final regulations issued in the third quarter by the IRS. The effective income tax rate in 2013 reflects a net benefit of $165 million from the settlements of certain federal income tax issues, net benefits from reductions in tax reserves upon expiration of applicable statutes of limitations, the favorable impact of tax legislation enacted in the first quarter of 2013 that extended the R&D tax credit for both 2012 and 2013, as well as an out-of-period net tax benefit of approximately $160 million associated with the resolution of a previously disclosed legacy Schering-Plough federal income tax issue (see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements). The Company is under examination by numerous tax authorities in various jurisdictions globally. The ultimate finalization of the Company’s examinations with relevant taxing authorities can include formal administrative and legal proceedings, which could have a significant impact on the timing of the reversal of unrecognized tax benefits. The Company believes that its reserves for uncertain tax positions are adequate to cover existing risks or exposures. However, there is one item that is currently under discussion with the IRS relating to the 2006 through 2008 examination. The Company has concluded that its position should be sustained upon audit. However, if this item were to result in an unfavorable outcome or settlement, it could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial position, liquidity and results of operations. Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was $17 million in 2015 , $14 million in 2014 and $113 million in 2013 . The declines in 2015 and 2014 as compared with 2013 reflect in part the termination of the Company’s relationship with AZLP and the resulting retirement of KBI preferred stock (see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements). In addition, the amount for 2014 includes the portion of intangible asset and goodwill impairment charges related to the Company’s joint venture with Supera (see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements) that are attributable to noncontrolling interests. Net Income and Earnings per Common Share Net income attributable to Merck & Co., Inc. was $4.4 billion in 2015 , $11.9 billion in 2014 and $4.4 billion in 2013 . EPS was $1.56 in 2015 , $4.07 in 2014 and $1.47 in 2013 . Non-GAAP Income and Non-GAAP EPS Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS are alternative views of the Company’s performance used by management that Merck is providing because management believes this information enhances investors’ understanding of the Company’s results. Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude certain items because of the nature of these items and the impact that they have on the analysis of underlying business performance and trends. The excluded items consist of acquisition and divestiture-related costs, restructuring costs and certain other items. These excluded items are significant components in understanding and assessing financial performance. Therefore, the information on non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, net income and EPS prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). Additionally, since non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS are not measures determined in accordance with GAAP, they have no standardized meaning prescribed by GAAP and, therefore, may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures of other companies. 52 Table of Contents Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS are important internal measures for the Company. Senior management receives a monthly analysis of operating results that includes non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS and the performance of the Company is measured on this basis along with other performance metrics. Senior management’s annual compensation is derived in part using non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS. A reconciliation between GAAP financial measures and non-GAAP financial measures is as follows: ($ in millions except per share amounts) 2015 2014 2013 Pretax income as reported under GAAP $ 5,401 $ 17,283 $ 5,545 Increase (decrease) for excluded items: Acquisition and divestiture-related costs 5,398 5,946 5,549 Restructuring costs 1,110 1,978 2,401 Other items: Foreign currency devaluation related to Venezuela 876 — — Net charge related to the settlement of Vioxx shareholder class action litigation 680 — — Gain sale of certain migraine clinical development programs (250 ) — — Gain on the divestiture of certain ophthalmic products (147 ) (480 ) — Gain on divestiture of Merck Consumer Care — (11,209 ) — Gain on AstraZeneca option exercise — (741 ) — Loss on extinguishment of debt — 628 — Additional year of expense for health care reform fee — 193 — Other (34 ) (9 ) (13 ) 13,034 13,589 13,482 Taxes on income as reported under GAAP 942 5,349 1,028 Estimated tax benefit (provision) on excluded items (1) 1,470 (2,345 ) 1,573 Net tax benefits from settlements of federal income tax issues 410 — 325 Tax benefits related to sale of Sirna Therapeutics, Inc. subsidiary — 300 — 2,822 3,304 2,926 Non-GAAP net income 10,212 10,285 10,556 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests as reported under GAAP 17 14 113 Acquisition and divestiture-related costs attributable to non-controlling interests — 56 — 17 70 113 Non-GAAP net income attributable to Merck & Co., Inc. $ 10,195 $ 10,215 $ 10,443 EPS assuming dilution as reported under GAAP $ 1.56 $ 4.07 $ 1.47 EPS difference (2) 2.03 (0.58 ) 2.02 Non-GAAP EPS assuming dilution $ 3.59 $ 3.49 $ 3.49 (1) Amount for 2014 includes a net benefit of $517 million recorded in connection with AstraZeneca’s option exercise. (2) Represents the difference between calculated GAAP EPS and calculated non-GAAP EPS, which may be different than the amount calculated by dividing the impact of the excluded items by the weighted-average shares for the applicable year . Acquisition and Divestiture-Related Costs Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude the impact of certain amounts recorded in connection with acquisitions and divestitures. These amounts include the amortization of intangible assets and amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to inventories, as well as intangible asset impairment charges and expense or income related to changes in the estimated fair value measurement of contingent consideration. Also excluded are integration, transaction, and certain other costs associated with business acquisitions, including severance costs which are not part 53 Table of Contents of the Company’s formal restructuring programs, as well as transaction and certain other costs related to divestitures. These costs should not be considered non-recurring; however, management excludes these amounts from non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS because it believes it is helpful for understanding the performance of the continuing business. Restructuring Costs Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude costs related to restructuring actions (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). These amounts include employee separation costs and accelerated depreciation associated with facilities to be closed or divested. Accelerated depreciation costs represent the difference between the depreciation expense to be recognized over the revised useful life of the site, based upon the anticipated date the site will be closed or divested, and depreciation expense as determined utilizing the useful life prior to the restructuring actions. Restructuring costs also include asset abandonment, shut-down and other related costs, as well as employee-related costs such as curtailment, settlement and termination charges associated with pension and other postretirement benefit plans and share-based compensation costs. The Company has undertaken restructurings of different types during the covered periods and, therefore, these charges should not be considered non-recurring; however, management excludes these amounts from non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS because it believes it is helpful for understanding the performance of the continuing business. Certain Other Items Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude certain other items. These items represent substantive, unusual items that are evaluated on an individual basis. Such evaluation considers both the quantitative and the qualitative aspect of their unusual nature and generally represent items that, either as a result of their nature or magnitude, management would not anticipate that they would occur as part of the Company’s normal business on a regular basis. Excluded from non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS in 2015 are foreign exchange losses related to the devaluation of the Company’s net monetary assets in Venezuela (see Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements), a net charge related to the settlement of Vioxx shareholder class action litigation (see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements), a gain on the sale of certain migraine clinical development programs (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements), a gain on the divestiture of the Company’s remaining ophthalmics business in international markets (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements), as well as a net tax benefit related to the settlement of certain federal income tax issues (see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements). Excluded from non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS in 2014 are certain gains, including a gain on the divestiture of MCC (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements), a gain recognized in conjunction with AstraZeneca’s option exercise, including a related net tax benefit on the transaction (see Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements), a gain on the divestiture of certain ophthalmic products in several international markets (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements), as well as a loss on extinguishment of debt (see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements), an additional year of expense related to the health care reform fee as discussed above, and a tax benefit from the sale of Sirna and tax benefits from the settlements of certain federal income tax issues (see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements). Research and Development A chart reflecting the Company’s current research pipeline as of February 19, 2016 is set forth in