Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Description of Merck’s Business Merck & Co., Inc. (“Merck” or the “Company”) is a global health care company that delivers innovative health solutions through its prescription medicines, vaccines, biologic therapies, animal health, and consumer care products, which it markets directly and through its joint ventures. The Company’s operations are principally managed on a products basis and are comprised of four operating segments, which are the Pharmaceutical, Animal Health, Consumer Care and Alliances segments, and one reportable segment, which is the Pharmaceutical segment. The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products marketed either directly by the Company or through joint ventures. Human health pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. The Company sells these human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Vaccine products consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. The Company sells these human health vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. The Company also has animal health operations that discover, develop, manufacture and market animal health products, including vaccines, which the Company sells to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. Additionally, the Company has consumer care operations that develop, manufacture and market over-the-counter, foot care and sun care products, which are sold through wholesale and retail drug, food chain and mass merchandiser outlets, as well as club stores and specialty channels. Overview The Company’s revenue performance in 2013 was tempered by ongoing business challenges, including recent product patent expiries and ongoing global efforts toward health care cost containment that continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access. Worldwide sales were $44.0 billion in 2013, a decline of 7% compared with 2012, including a 2% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The decline was driven primarily by the recent loss of market exclusivity for several products, particularly Singulair , a medicine indicated for the chronic treatment of asthma and the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis, as well as Maxalt , a product for acute treatment of migraine, Propecia , a product for the treatment of male pattern hair loss, and Temodar , a treatment for certain types of brain tumors. The Company experienced a significant and rapid decline in sales of these products following loss of market exclusivity. These declines were partially offset by higher sales of vaccines, immunology, diabetes and HIV products. The Company continued to successfully execute on its cost reduction initiatives in 2013. Marketing and administrative expenses and Research and development costs were down over $1.5 billion on a combined basis in 2013 as compared with 2012 reflecting targeted reductions in promotional spending and lower costs as a result of portfolio prioritization. In an effort to drive further company-wide efficiencies, Merck is taking several strategic and operating actions in response to its business challenges and the rapidly changing external environment it is facing that are designed to drive short- and long-term growth. In October 2013, the Company announced a multi-year global initiative to sharpen its commercial and research and development focus designed to enable Merck to better allocate its resources on candidates that it believes are capable of providing unambiguous, promotable advantages to patients and payers. This includes bolstering its pipeline and implementing a more agile operating model, with a significantly reduced, more flexible cost structure while still maintaining a high level of cash returned to shareholders. Geographically, the Company will increase its focus on ten prioritized markets, which account for the majority of revenue in its pharmaceutical and vaccine business. These markets are the United States, Japan, France, Germany, Canada, United Kingdom, China, Brazil, Russia and Korea. The Company will continue to invest in high-growth and key emerging markets. Within the core human pharmaceutical and vaccine business, Merck will continue to support its in-line portfolio and prepare for promising launches in the pipeline. The Company will increase its focus on the key therapeutic areas that meet unmet medical needs, provide the best opportunities for the business and deliver the greatest value for customers – diabetes, acute hospital care, vaccines and oncology. As part of its intensified portfolio assessment process, the Company has divested a portion of its U.S. ophthalmics business and sold the U.S. marketing rights for Saphris, 35 Table of Contents an antipsychotic indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder in adults. The Company’s portfolio assessment process is ongoing and future product divestitures may occur. In addition, in January 2014, the Company announced that it was evaluating the respective roles of Merck’s Animal Health and Consumer Care businesses in the Company’s strategy for long-term value creation. The Company expects to complete the evaluation process and take action, if any, in 2014. The Company could reach different decisions about the two businesses. The Company’s re-focused research and development efforts include programs such as the Company’s anti-PD-1 immunotherapy (MK-3475) in oncology, which has received a Breakthrough Therapy designation from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”) for advanced melanoma, Merck’s BACE inhibitor for Alzheimer’s disease (MK-8931), the Company’s all oral combination regimen for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus infection (MK-5172/MK-8742), and V503, a nine-valent human papillomavirus (“HPV”) vaccine. In January 2014, the Company announced it has initiated the rolling submission of a Biologics License Application (“BLA”) to the FDA for MK-3475 in patients with advanced melanoma who have previously been treated with ipilimumab. During 2013, the Company received a Breakthrough Therapy designation for MK-5172/MK-8742 and has advanced the combination into Phase 2B in a diverse range of chronic hepatitis C patients. The Company has initiated Phase 3 trials for its BACE inhibitor (MK-8931) and filed a BLA with the FDA for V503. Merck is pursuing emerging product opportunities independent of therapeutic area or modality and is building its biologics capabilities. The Company expects to make externally sourced programs a greater component of its pipeline strategy. During 2013, the Company entered into a collaboration agreement for the development and commercialization of ertugliflozin, an investigational oral sodium glucose cotransporter (“SGLT2”) inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of type 2 diabetes in Phase 3 clinical development. The Company is out-licensing or discontinuing selected late-stage clinical development assets and reducing its focus on platform technologies. During 2013, the Company out-licensed MK-1775, an investigational treatment for certain types of ovarian cancer, and in January 2014 entered into an agreement to divest its Sirna Therapeutics, Inc. subsidiary and related RNAi technology assets. The Company currently has several candidates under review with the FDA: MK-5348, vorapaxar, an investigational anti-thrombotic medicine (also under review in the European Union (the “EU”)); V503, a nine-valent HPV vaccine; MK-8962, corifollitropin alfa injection, an investigational fertility treatment; MK-7243, Grastek , an investigational Timothy grass pollen allergy immunotherapy tablet (“AIT”) and MK-3641, Ragwitek , an investigational ragweed pollen AIT. Also, MK-8109, vintafolide, an investigational cancer candidate, is under review in the EU and MK-7009, vaniprevir, an investigational, oral twice-daily protease inhibitor for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus infection is under review in Japan. In February 2014, the Company resubmitted its New Drug Application (“NDA”) to the FDA for MK-4305, suvorexant, responding to the agency’s Complete Response Letter (“CRL”) received in 2013. In addition, the Company anticipates resubmitting its NDA application in 2014 to the FDA for MK-8616, sugammadex sodium injection, a medication for the reversal of certain muscle relaxants used during surgery for which the Company received a CRL in 2013 (see “Research and Development” below). The Company also has 12 candidates in Phase 3 development and anticipates filing a New Drug Application (“NDA”) or a BLA, as applicable, with the FDA with respect to several of these candidates in 2014, including the completion of the rolling submission of the BLA for MK-3475 for patients with advanced melanoma who have previously been treated with ipilimumab. In October 2013, in connection with the implementation of Company’s new global initiative, the Company announced a global restructuring program (the “2013 Restructuring Program”). As part of the program, the Company expects to reduce its total workforce by approximately 8,500 positions. These workforce reductions will primarily come from the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as research and development. The Company will also reduce its global real estate footprint and continue to improve the efficiency of its manufacturing and supply network. The Company recorded total pretax costs of $1.2 billion in 2013 related to this restructuring program. The actions under the 2013 Restructuring Program are expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2015 with the cumulative pretax costs estimated to be approximately $2.5 billion to $3.0 billion . The Company expects the actions under the 2013 Restructuring Program to result in annual net cost savings of approximately $2.0 billion by the end of 2015. The Company anticipates that the actions under the 2013 Restructuring Program, combined with remaining actions under the Merger Restructuring Program (discussed below), will result in annual net cost savings of $2.5 billion by the end of 2015 compared with full-year 2012 expense levels. 36 Table of Contents The global restructuring program (the “Merger Restructuring Program”) that was initiated in 2010 subsequent to the Merck and Schering-Plough Corporation (“Schering-Plough”) merger (the “Merger”) is intended to streamline the cost structure of the combined company. The workforce reductions associated with this plan relate to the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as from the sale or closure of certain manufacturing and research and development sites and the consolidation of office facilities. The Company recorded total pretax costs of $1.1 billion in 2013 , $951 million in 2012 and $1.8 billion in 2011 related to this restructuring program. The restructuring actions under the Merger Restructuring Program were substantially completed by the end of 2013, with the exception of certain actions, principally manufacturing-related. Subsequent to the Merger, the Company has rationalized a number of manufacturing sites worldwide. The remaining actions under this program will result in additional manufacturing facility rationalizations, which are expected to be substantially completed by 2016. The Company expects the estimated total cumulative pretax costs for this program to be approximately $7.4 billion to $7.7 billion and to yield annual savings upon completion of the program of approximately $4.0 billion to $4.6 billion. Costs associated with the Company’s restructuring actions are included in Materials and production costs, Marketing and administrative expenses, Research and development expenses and Restructuring costs . The Company estimates that of the projected costs associated with the above mentioned restructuring programs, approximately two-thirds of the cumulative pretax costs relate to cash outlays, primarily related to employee separation expense. Approximately one-third of the cumulative pretax costs are non-cash, relating primarily to the accelerated depreciation of facilities to be closed or divested. During 2013, the Company returned $11.7 billion of cash to shareholders through stock buy-back activity and dividend payments. Pursuant to a $15 billion share repurchase program approved in May 2013 by Merck’s Board of Directors, Merck entered into an accelerated share repurchase (“ASR”) agreement with Goldman, Sachs & Co. (“Goldman Sachs”). Under the ASR, Merck repurchased 105 million shares of common stock for $5 billion utilizing funding from an underwritten public debt offering. Also, in November 2013, Merck’s Board of Directors raised the Company’s quarterly dividend to $0.44 per share from $0.43 per share. Earnings per common share assuming dilution attributable to common shareholders (“EPS”) for 2013 were $1.47 compared with $2.00 in 2012 . EPS in both years reflect a net unfavorable impact resulting from acquisition-related costs and restructuring costs, and certain other items. Non-GAAP EPS, which excludes these items, were $3.49 in 2013 compared with $3.82 in 2012 (see “Non-GAAP Income and Non-GAAP EPS” below). The decline in Non-GAAP EPS in 2013 as compared with 2012 was due primarily to lower sales reflecting the loss of market exclusivity for certain products, particularly Singulair , lower equity income and higher foreign exchange losses, partially offset by lower operating expenses. EPS in 2013 benefited from lower average shares outstanding due to the ASR program discussed above. Competition and the Health Care Environment Competition The markets in which the Company conducts its business and the pharmaceutical industry are highly competitive and highly regulated. The Company’s competitors include other worldwide research-based pharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, and generic drug and consumer and animal health care manufacturers. The Company’s operations may be adversely affected by generic and biosimilar competition as the Company’s products mature, as well as technological advances of competitors, industry consolidation, patents granted to competitors, competitive combination products, new products of competitors, the generic availability of competitors’ branded products, and new information from clinical trials of marketed products or post-marketing surveillance. In addition, patent positions are increasingly being challenged by competitors, and the outcome can be highly uncertain. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect sales of existing products and could result in the recognition of an impairment charge with respect to intangible assets associated with certain products. Competitive pressures have intensified as pressures in the industry have grown. The effect on operations of competitive factors and patent disputes cannot be predicted. Pharmaceutical competition involves a rigorous search for technological innovations and the ability to market these innovations effectively. With its long-standing emphasis on research and development, the Company is well positioned to compete in the search for technological innovations. Additional resources required to meet market challenges include quality control, flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient distribution system and a 37 Table of Contents strong technical information service. The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products through external alliances, such as joint ventures and licenses, and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to further address changing industry conditions. However, the introduction of new products and processes by competitors may result in price reductions and product displacements, even for products protected by patents. For example, the number of compounds available to treat a particular disease typically increases over time and can result in slowed sales growth or reduced sales for the Company’s products in that therapeutic category. The highly competitive animal health business is affected by several factors including regulatory and legislative issues, scientific and technological advances, product innovation, the quality and price of the Company’s products, effective promotional efforts and the frequent introduction of generic products by competitors. The Company’s consumer care operations face competition from other consumer health care businesses as well as retailers who carry their own private label brands. The Company’s competitive position is affected by several factors, including regulatory and legislative issues, scientific and technological advances, the quality and price of the Company’s products, promotional efforts and the growth of lower cost private label brands. Health Care Environment Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access. In the United States, federal and state governments for many years also have pursued methods to reduce the cost of drugs and vaccines for which they pay. For example, federal laws require the Company to pay specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid and to provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain Public Health Service entities and hospitals serving a disproportionate share of low income or uninsured patients. Against this backdrop, the United States enacted major health care reform legislation in 2010, which began to be implemented in 2010. Various insurance market reforms have advanced and will continue through full implementation in 2014. The law is expected to expand access to health care to about 32 million Americans by the end of the decade who did not previously have insurance coverage. With respect to the effect of the law on the pharmaceutical industry, the law increased the mandated Medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1%, expanded the rebate to Medicaid managed care utilization, and increased the types of entities eligible for the federal 340B drug discount program. The law also requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay a 50% point of service discount to Medicare Part D beneficiaries when they are in the Medicare Part D coverage gap (i.e., the so-called “donut hole”). Approximately $280 million, $210 million and $150 million was recorded by Merck as a reduction to revenue in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, related to the donut hole provision. Also, pharmaceutical manufacturers are now required to pay an annual health care reform fee. The total annual industry fee was $2.8 billion in 2013 and will be $3.0 billion in 2014. The fee is assessed on each company in proportion to its share of sales to certain government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. The Company recorded $151 million, $190 million and $162 million of costs within Marketing and administrative expenses in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, for the annual health care reform fee. The full impact of U.S. health care reform cannot be predicted at this time. The Company also faces increasing pricing pressure globally from managed care organizations, government agencies and programs that could negatively affect the Company’s sales and profit margins. In the United States, these include (i) practices of managed care groups, federal and state exchanges, and institutional and governmental purchasers, and (ii) U.S. federal laws and regulations related to Medicare and Medicaid, including the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010. Changes to the health care system enacted as part of health care reform in the United States, as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, could result in further pricing pressures. In addition, in the effort to contain the U.S. federal deficit, the pharmaceutical industry could be considered a potential source of savings via legislative proposals that have been debated but not enacted. These types of revenue generating or cost saving proposals include additional direct price controls in the Medicare prescription drug program (Part D). In addition, Congress may again consider proposals to allow, under certain conditions, the importation of medicines from other countries. It remains very uncertain as to what proposals, if any, may be included as part of future federal budget deficit reduction proposals that would directly or indirectly affect the Company. Efforts toward health care cost containment remain intense in several European countries. Many countries have continued to announce and execute austerity measures, which include the implementation of pricing actions to 38 Table of Contents reduce prices of generic and patented drugs and mandatory switches to generic drugs. While the Company is taking steps to mitigate the impact in these countries, the austerity measures continued to negatively affect the Company’s revenue performance in 2013 and the Company anticipates the austerity measures will continue to negatively affect revenue performance in 2014. In addition, a majority of countries attempt to contain drug costs by engaging in reference pricing in which authorities examine pre-determined markets for published prices of drugs by brand. The authorities then use price data from those markets to set new local prices for brand-name drugs, including the Company’s. Guidelines for examining reference pricing are usually set in local markets and can be changed pursuant to local regulations. In addition, in Japan, the pharmaceutical industry is subject to government-mandated biennial price reductions of pharmaceutical products and certain vaccines. Furthermore, the government can order repricings for classes of drugs if it determines that it is appropriate under applicable rules. Certain markets outside of the United States have also implemented cost management strategies, such as health technology assessments, which require additional data, reviews and administrative processes, all of which increase the complexity, timing and costs of obtaining product reimbursement and exert downward pressure on available reimbursement. The Company’s focus on and share of revenue from emerging markets has increased. Governments in many emerging markets are also focused on constraining health care costs and have enacted price controls and related measures, such as compulsory licenses, that aim to put pressure on the price of pharmaceuticals and constrain market access. The Company anticipates that pricing pressures and market access challenges will continue in 2014 to varying degrees in the emerging markets. Beyond pricing and market access challenges, other conditions in emerging market countries can affect the Company’s efforts to continue to grow in these markets, including potential political instability, significant currency fluctuation and controls, financial crises, limited or changing availability of funding for health care, and other developments that may adversely impact the business environment for the Company. Further, the Company may engage third-party agents to assist in operating in emerging market countries, which may affect its ability to realize continued growth and may also increase the Company’s risk exposure. In addressing cost containment pressures, the Company engages in public policy advocacy with policymakers and continues to work to demonstrate that its medicines provide value to patients and to those who pay for health care. The Company advocates with government policymakers to encourage a long-term approach to sustainable health care financing that ensures access to innovative medicines and does not disproportionately target pharmaceuticals as a source of budget savings. In markets with historically low rates of health care spending, the Company encourages those governments to increase their investments and adopt market reforms in order to improve their citizens’ access to appropriate health care, including medicines. Operating conditions have become more challenging under the global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment efforts. Although no one can predict the effect of these and other factors on the Company’s business, the Company continually takes measures to evaluate, adapt and improve the organization and its business practices to better meet customer needs and believes that it is well positioned to respond to the evolving health care environment and market forces. Government Regulation The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by regional, country, state and local agencies around the world. Governmental regulation and legislation tend to focus on standards and processes for determining drug safety and effectiveness, as well as conditions for sale or reimbursement, especially related to the pricing of products. Of particular importance is the FDA in the United States, which administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. In many cases, the FDA requirements and practices have increased the amount of time and resources necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the United States. The EU has adopted directives and other legislation concerning the classification, labeling, advertising, wholesale distribution, integrity of the supply chain, enhanced pharmacovigilance monitoring and approval for marketing of medicinal products for human use. These provide mandatory standards throughout the EU, which may be supplemented or implemented with additional regulations by the EU member states. The Company’s policies and 39 Table of Contents procedures are already consistent with the substance of these directives; consequently, it is believed that they will not have any material effect on the Company’s business. The Company believes that it will continue to be able to conduct its operations, including launching new drugs, in this regulatory environment. Access to Medicines As a global health care company, Merck’s primary role is to discover and develop innovative medicines and vaccines. The Company also recognizes that it has an important role to play in helping to improve access to its products around the world. The Company’s efforts in this regard are wide-ranging and include a set of principles that the Company strives to embed into its operations and business strategies to guide the Company’s worldwide approach to expanding access to health care. In addition, the Company has many far-reaching philanthropic programs. The Merck Patient Assistance Program provides medicines and adult vaccines for free to people in the United States who do not have prescription drug or health insurance coverage and who, without the Company’s assistance, cannot afford their Merck medicine and vaccines. In 2011, Merck announced that it would launch “Merck for Mothers,” a long-term effort with global health partners to end preventable deaths from complications of pregnancy and childbirth. Through this initiative, Merck is leveraging its scientific and business expertise to help make proven solutions more widely available, develop new technologies and improve public and policymaker awareness of these issues. Merck has also in the past provided funds to the Merck Foundation, an independent organization, which has partnered with a variety of organizations dedicated to improving global health. One of these partnerships is The African Comprehensive HIV/AIDS Partnership in Botswana, a collaboration with the government of Botswana that was renewed in 2010 and supports Botswana’s response to HIV/AIDS through a comprehensive and sustainable approach to HIV prevention, care, treatment, and support. Privacy and Data Protection The Company is subject to a number of privacy and data protection laws and regulations globally. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve. There has been increased attention to privacy and data protection issues in both developed and emerging markets with the potential to affect directly the Company’s business, including recently enacted laws and regulations in the United States, Europe, Asia and Latin America, and increased enforcement and litigation activity in the United States and other developed markets. Operating Results Sales Worldwide sales totaled $44.0 billion in 2013, a decline of 7% compared with $47.3 billion in 2012. The sales decline was driven primarily by lower sales of Singulair . The patents that provided U.S. market exclusivity and market exclusivity in a number of major European markets for Singulair expired in August 2012 and February 2013, respectively, and the Company experienced a significant and rapid decline in Singulair sales in those markets thereafter. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 2% in 2013. The revenue decline in 2013 also reflects lower sales of Maxalt , Cozaar and Hyzaar, treatments for hypertension, Temodar , Clarinex , a non-sedating antihistamine, PegIntron, a treatment for chronic hepatitis C , Propecia , Fosamax , a treatment for osteoporosis, and Vytorin , a cholesterol modifying medicine. These declines were partially offset by growth in Gardasil , a vaccine to help prevent certain diseases caused by four types of HPV, Remicade and Simponi , treatments for inflammatory diseases, Janumet , a treatment for type 2 diabetes, Isentress , a treatment for HIV-1 infection, Dulera Inhalation Aerosol, a combination medicine for the treatment of asthma, and Zostavax , a vaccine to help prevent shingles (herpes zoster). Sales in the United States were $18.2 billion in 2013, a decline of 11% compared with $20.4 billion in 2012. The sales decrease was driven primarily by lower sales of Singulair , as well as Maxalt , Temodar , Victrelis , an oral medicine for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus, and Clarinex , partially offset by higher sales of Gardasil , Zetia , a cholesterol absorption inhibitor, and Dulera Inhalation Aerosol. International sales were $25.8 billion in 2013, a decline of 4% compared with $26.9 billion in 2012. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected international sales performance by 4% in 2013. The decline was driven primarily by lower sales in the Pharmaceutical segment, reflecting declines in Japan, largely attributable to the unfavorable effect of foreign exchange, and Europe that were partially offset by growth in the emerging markets. Sales in Japan declined 21% in 2013, to $3.9 billion, of which 17% was due to the unfavorable effect of foreign exchange. The sales decline 40 Table of Contents reflects the ongoing impacts of the loss of the market exclusivity for several products, including Cozaar and Hyzaar , as well as lower sales of Gardasil , reflecting the Japanese government’s decision to suspend proactive recommendation of HPV vaccines, and declines in PegIntron and Rebetol , products for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C. These declines were partially offset by volume growth in Januvia , a treatment for type 2 diabetes, Nasonex , an inhaled nasal corticosteroid for the treatment of nasal allergy symptoms, Zetia , and RotaTeq , a vaccine to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children. Sales in Europe declined 1% in 2013, to $9.6 billion, including a 2% favorable effect from foreign exchange driven by ongoing generic erosion and fiscal austerity measures in this region, partially offset by growth in Remicade , Simponi , Janumet , Januvia and Isentress . Sales in the emerging markets grew 3% in 2013, to $7.8 billion, including a 4% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange reflecting higher sales of vaccine, hospital, hepatitis and immunology products, partially offset by lower sales of Singulair and diversified brands. Total international sales represented 59% and 57% of total sales in 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access worldwide. In many international markets, government-mandated pricing actions have reduced prices of generic and patented drugs. In addition, other austerity measures negatively affected the Company’s revenue performance in 2013. The Company anticipates these pricing actions, including the biennial price reductions in Japan, and other austerity measures will continue to negatively affect revenue performance in 2014. In October 2013, the Company sold its active pharmaceutical ingredient (“API”) manufacturing business and, effective December 31, 2013, certain related products within Diversified Brands. In November 2013, Merck sold the U.S. rights to certain ophthalmic products and in January 2014 sold the U.S. rights to Saphris . The aggregate annual sales associated with these divested assets were approximately $625 million. The annual sales associated with the divested products were approximately $425 million of which approximately $385 million related to the Pharmaceutical segment and $40 million related to the Consumer Care segment. The annual sales associated with the divested API manufacturing business were approximately $200 million and related to non-segment revenues. Worldwide sales were $47.3 billion in 2012, a decline of 2% compared with $48.0 billion in 2011. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 3%. The sales decrease was driven primarily by Singulair , which lost market exclusivity in the United States in August 2012 resulting in a significant and rapid decline in U.S. Singulair sales. The sales decline was also driven by lower sales of Remicade , largely as a result of the arbitration settlement agreement reached in 2011 as discussed below. In addition, lower sales of Cozaar and Hyzaar , Clarinex , Fosamax , Vytorin , Primaxin , an anti-bacterial product, and Avelox , a broad-spectrum fluoroquinolone antibiotic for the treatment of certain respiratory and skin infections, as well as lower revenue from the Company’s relationship with AstraZeneca LP (“AZLP”) also contributed to the sales decline in 2012. These declines were largely offset by higher sales of Januvia , Gardasil , Victrelis , Zostavax , Janumet , Isentress , Zetia , and Dulera Inhalation Aerosol, as well as by higher sales of the Company’s animal health and consumer care products. 41 Table of Contents Sales of the Company’s products were as follows: 2013 2012 2011 Primary Care and Women’s Health Cardiovascular Zetia $ 2,658 $ 2,567 $ 2,428 Vytorin 1,643 1,747 1,882 Diabetes and Obesity Januvia 4,004 4,086 3,324 Janumet 1,829 1,659 1,363 Respiratory Nasonex 1,335 1,268 1,286 Singulair 1,196 3,853 5,479 Dulera 324 207 96 Asmanex 184 185 206 Women’s Health and Endocrine NuvaRing 686 623 623 Fosamax 560 676 855 Follistim AQ 481 468 530 Implanon 403 348 294 Cerazette 208 271 268 Other Arcoxia 484 453 431 Avelox 140 201 322 Hospital and Specialty Immunology Remicade 2,271 2,076 2,667 Simponi 500 331 264 Infectious Disease Isentress 1,643 1,515 1,359 Cancidas 660 619 640 PegIntron 496 653 657 Invanz 488 445 406 Victrelis 428 502 140 Noxafil 309 258 230 Oncology Temodar 708 917 935 Emend 507 489 419 Other Cosopt/Trusopt 416 444 477 Bridion 288 261 201 Integrilin 186 211 230 Diversified Brands Cozaar/Hyzaar 1,006 1,284 1,663 Primaxin 335 384 515 Zocor 301 383 456 Propecia 283 424 447 Clarinex 235 393 621 Remeron 206 232 241 Claritin Rx 204 244 314 Proscar 183 217 223 Maxalt 149 638 639 Vaccines (1) Gardasil 1,831 1,631 1,209 ProQuad/M-M-R II /Varivax 1,306 1,273 1,202 Zostavax 758 651 332 Pneumovax 23 653 580 498 RotaTeq 636 601 651 Other pharmaceutical (2) 4,316 4,333 4,266 Total Pharmaceutical segment sales 37,437 40,601 41,289 Other segment sales (3) 6,325 6,412 6,428 Total segment sales 43,762 47,013 47,717 Other (4) 271 254 330 $ 44,033 $ 47,267 $ 48,047 (1) These amounts do not reflect sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through the Company’s joint venture, Sanofi Pasteur MSD, the results of which are reflected in Equity income from affiliates . These amounts do, however, reflect supply sales to Sanofi Pasteur MSD. (2) Other pharmaceutical primarily reflects sales of other human health pharmaceutical products, including products within the franchises not listed separately. (3) Represents the non-reportable segments of Animal Health, Consumer Care and Alliances. The Alliances segment includes revenue from the Company’s relationship with AZLP. (4) Other revenues are primarily comprised of miscellaneous corporate revenues, third-party manufacturing sales, sales related to divested products or businesses and other supply sales not included in segment results. As discussed above, on October 1, 2013, the Company divested a substantial portion of its third-party manufacturing sales. In addition, other revenues in 2013 reflect $50 million of revenue for the out-license of a pipeline compound. 42 Table of Contents Pharmaceutical Segment Primary Care and Women’s Health Cardiovascular Worldwide sales of Zetia (also marketed as Ezetrol outside the United States), a cholesterol absorption inhibitor, were $2.7 billion in 2013, an increase of 4% compared with 2012 including a 2% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The sales increase primarily reflects favorable pricing in the United States and volume growth in Japan, partially offset by the unfavorable effect of foreign exchange particularly in Japan. Sales of Zetia increased 6% in 2012 to $2.6 billion, including a 2% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The sales increase reflects positive performance in the United States due to pricing, as well as volume growth in Japan, partially offset by volume declines in the United States. Global sales of Vytorin (marketed outside the United States as Inegy ), a combination product containing the active ingredients of both Zetia and Zocor , a statin for modifying cholesterol, were $1.6 billion in 2013, a decline of 6% compared with 2012, driven primarily by lower volumes in the United States and Latin America, partially offset by volume growth in the Asia Pacific region. Worldwide sales of Vytorin declined 7% in 2012 to $1.7 billion, including a 3% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The sales decline reflects volume declines in the United States, partially offset by pricing in the United States and volume growth in certain international markets. In March 2013, the Data Safety Monitoring Board (the “DSMB”) of the IMPROVE-IT trial, a large cardiovascular outcomes study evaluating ezetimibe/simvastatin against simvastatin alone in patients presenting with acute coronary syndrome, completed its planned review of study data and recommended that the study continue. Merck remains blinded to the actual results of this analysis and to other IMPROVE-IT safety and efficacy data. IMPROVE-IT is an 18,000 patient event-driven trial and, based on the targeted number of 5,250 clinical endpoints and the rate at which events are being reported, the trial is projected to conclude later in 2014. If the results of the IMPROVE-IT trial fail to demonstrate an incremental benefit of ezetimibe/simvastatin on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality over and above that demonstrated for simvastatin, sales of Zetia and Vytorin could be materially adversely affected and, if so, the Company may take non-cash impairment charges with respect to the carrying values of the Zetia and Vytorin intangible assets, which were $4.7 billion and $2.6 billion , respectively, at December 31, 2013 and such charges could be material. Diabetes and Obesity Global sales of Januvia , Merck’s dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (“DPP-4”) inhibitor for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, were $4.0 billion in 2013, a decline of 2% compared with 2012 including a 5% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. Excluding the negative effect from foreign exchange, sales performance in 2013 compared with 2012 reflects volume growth in Japan, positive performance in Europe and the emerging markets, partially offset by declines in the United States reflecting lowering demand. Worldwide sales of Januvia rose 23% to $4.1 billion in 2012 compared with 2011 reflecting volume growth in the United States, as well as in international markets, particularly in Japan. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected sales performance by 2% in 2012. In 2014, the Company anticipates that all DPP-4 inhibitors, including Januvia , will be subject to repricing in Japan. The Trial Evaluating Cardiovascular Outcomes after treatment with Sitagliptin (“TECOS”), an event-driven, cardiovascular outcomes study for sitagliptin, began in 2008 and has over 14,000 patients enrolled. TECOS will evaluate the impact of sitagliptin when added to usual care compared to usual care without sitagliptin in a large, high-risk type 2 diabetes population across multiple countries. TECOS is expected to be completed later in 2014. Worldwide sales of Janumet , Merck’s oral antihyperglycemic agent that combines sitagliptin ( Januvia) with metformin in a single tablet, were $1.8 billion in 2013, an increase of 10% compared with 2012, driven primarily by volume growth outside the United States. Global sales of Janumet were $1.7 billion in 2012, an increase of 22% compared with 2011, reflecting volume growth in the United States, the emerging markets and Europe. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected sales performance by 4% in 2012. Global sales of the combined diabetes franchise of Januvia/Janumet were $5.8 billion in 2013, an increase of 2% compared with 2012 including a 3% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange, and were $5.7 billion in 2012, an increase of 23% compared with 2011 including a 2% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. 43 Table of Contents Respiratory Global sales of Nasonex , an inhaled nasal corticosteroid for the treatment of nasal allergy symptoms, increased 5% to $1.3 billion in 2013 compared with 2012 driven primarily by increases in the United States, reflecting net favorable adjustments to indirect customer discounts, as well as by volume growth in Japan, partially offset by declines in Latin America, Canada and Europe. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 3% in 2013. By agreement, generic manufacturers were able to launch a generic version of Nasonex in most European markets on January 1, 2014 and generic versions of Nasonex have since launched in several of these markets. Accordingly, the Company anticipates a rapid decline in Nasonex sales in Europe in 2014. Sales of Nasonex in Europe were $207 million in 2013. In 2009, Apotex Inc. and Apotex Corp. (collectively, “Apotex”) filed an application with the FDA seeking approval to sell its generic version of Nasonex . In June 2012, the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey ruled against the Company in a patent infringement suit against Apotex holding that Apotex’s generic version of Nasonex does not infringe on the Company’s formulation patent. In June 2013, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a decision affirming the U.S. District Court decision and the Company has exhausted all of its appeal options. If Apotex’s generic version becomes available, significant losses of U.S. Nasonex sales could occur and the Company may take a non-cash impairment charge with respect to the carrying value of the Nasonex intangible asset, which was $1.3 billion at December 31, 2013 . If the Nasonex intangible asset is determined to be impaired, the impairment charge could be material. U.S. sales of Nasonex were $681 million in 2013 . Worldwide sales of Nasonex declined 1% in 2012 to $1.3 billion, including a 1% unfavorable impact from foreign exchange. Sales performance in 2012 compared with 2011 reflects price declines in Europe and lower volumes in the United States, largely offset by higher prices in the United States. Worldwide sales of Singulair, a once-a-day oral medicine for the chronic treatment of asthma and for the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis, fell 69% to $1.2 billion in 2013 compared with 2012 driven primarily by lower sales in the United States and Europe as a result of generic competition. The patent that provided U.S. market exclusivity for Singulair expired in August 2012 and the Company has lost nearly all sales of Singulair in the United States. In addition, the patents that provided market exclusivity for Singulair expired in a number of major European markets in February 2013 and the Company experienced a significant and rapid reduction in sales of Singulair in those markets following the patent expiries and expects the decline to continue. The patent that provides market exclusivity for Singulair in Japan will expire in 2016. Singulair sales in Japan were $523 million in 2013. Global sales of Singulair declined 30% to $3.9 billion in 2012 compared with 2011 driven primarily by lower sales in the United States. Revenue declines in Europe, Canada and Latin America also contributed to the Singulair sales decline in 2012. Global sales of Dulera Inhalation Aerosol, a combination medicine for the treatment of asthma, were $324 million in 2013, $207 million in 2012 and $96 million in 2011 reflecting higher demand in the United States. Dulera Inhalation Aerosol was approved by the FDA in June 2010. In January 2012, Merck received a CRL from the FDA on the Company’s supplemental New Drug Application for Dulera Inhalation Aerosol for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The Company has determined not to conduct an additional clinical study and will no longer pursue an update to the application. Women’s Health and Endocrine Worldwide sales of NuvaRing , a vaginal contraceptive product, were $686 million in 2013, an increase of 10% compared with 2012, primarily reflecting volume growth and favorable pricing in the United States. Global sales of NuvaRing were $623 million in 2012, comparable with sales in 2011. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected sales performance by 3% in 2012. Excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, sales performance in 2012 reflects volume growth in the emerging markets and positive performance in Europe. Worldwide sales of Fosamax (marketed as Fosamac in Japan) and Fosamax Plus D (marketed as Fosavance throughout the EU) for the treatment and, in the case of Fosamax , prevention of osteoporosis, declined 17% in 2013 to $560 million and decreased 21% in 2012 to $676 million driven by declines in most regions. These medicines have lost market exclusivity in the United States and in most major international markets. The Company expects the sales declines within the Fosamax product franchise to continue. Global sales of Follistim AQ (marketed in most countries outside the United States as Puregon ), a fertility treatment, grew 3% to $481 million in 2013 compared with 2012 driven largely by positive performance in the United States. Sales of Follistim AQ declined 12% in 2012 to $468 million, including a 3% unfavorable effect from foreign 44 Table of Contents exchange, driven largely by declines in Europe resulting from supply issues and pricing. Puregon lost market exclusivity in the EU in August 2009. Worldwide sales of Implanon , a single-rod subdermal contraceptive implant, grew 16% to $403 million in 2013 compared with 2012 driven primarily by volume growth in the United States that was partially offset by declines in the emerging markets from pricing pressures. Implanon sales increased 18% in 2012 to $348 million, including a 2% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange, reflecting volume growth in the emerging markets and in the United States. In recent years, the Company experienced difficulties manufacturing certain women’s health products. The Company has resolved these issues, which were not material to the Company’s results of operations. Other Other products included in Primary Care and Women’s Health include among others, Asmanex Twisthaler , an inhaled corticosteroid for asthma; Cerazette , a progestin only oral contraceptive; Arcoxia , for the treatment of arthritis and pain and Avelox , a broad-spectrum fluroquinolone antibiotic for the treatment of certain respiratory and skin infections marketed by the Company in the United States. The patent that provides U.S. market exclusivity for Avelox expires in March 2014. Hospital and Specialty Immunology Sales of Remicade, a treatment for inflammatory diseases (marketed by the Company in Europe, Russia and Turkey), were $2.3 billion in 2013, an increase of 9% compared with 2012 including a 2% favorable effect from foreign exchange. Sales growth reflects volume growth in Europe, as well as Russia. In September 2013, the EC approved an infliximab biosimilar. While the Company is experiencing generic competition in certain smaller European markets, the Company anticipates a more substantial decline in Remicade sales following loss of market exclusivity in major European markets in February 2015. Sales of Remicade were $2.1 billion in 2012, a decline of 22% compared with 2011 including a 6% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. Prior to July 1, 2011, Remicade was marketed by the Company outside of the United States (except in Japan and certain other Asian markets). As a result of the agreement reached in April 2011 to amend the agreement governing the distribution rights to Remicade and Simponi , effective July 1, 2011, Merck relinquished marketing rights for these products in certain territories including Canada, Central and South America, the Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific. Merck retained exclusive marketing rights throughout Europe, Russia and Turkey (the “Retained Territories”). In the Retained Territories, Remicade sales declined 2% in 2012, which reflects an 8% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange and volume growth in Europe. Sales of Simponi , a once-monthly subcutaneous treatment for certain inflammatory diseases (marketed by the Company in Europe, Russia and Turkey), were $500 million in 2013, $331 million in 2012 and $264 million in 2011 driven by continued launch activities. Simponi was approved by the European Commission (the “EC”) in October 2009. In September 2013, the EC approved Simponi for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies. Infectious Disease Worldwide sales of Isentress, an HIV integrase inhibitor for use in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection, grew 8% to $1.6 billion in 2013 compared with 2012 driven primarily by volume growth in the United States and Europe. Global sales of Isentress grew 11% in 2012 to $1.5 billion compared with 2011 driven primarily by volume growth in the United States, Latin America and the Asia Pacific region. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 1% in 2013 and 4% in 2012. Global sales of Cancidas , an anti-fungal product, increased 7% to $660 million in 2013 compared with 2012 reflecting growth in most emerging markets, as well as in Europe and Japan. Sales of Cancidas declined 3% in 2012 to $619 million, which reflects a 5% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange and growth in the emerging markets. Worldwide sales of PegIntron , a treatment for chronic hepatitis C, declined 24% to $496 million in 2013 compared with 2012 reflecting declines in all regions. The Company believes the sales declines are attributable in part to patient treatment being delayed by health care providers in anticipation of new therapeutic options becoming available. 45 Table of Contents Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 3% in 2013. Global sales of PegIntron declined 1% in 2012 to $653 million, including an unfavorable effect from foreign exchange of 4%. Excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, sales performance reflects volume growth and favorable pricing in the United States and volume growth in certain emerging markets. Global sales of Victrelis , an oral medicine for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C, were $428 million in 2013, a decline of 15% compared with 2012 including a 1% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. Sales declines in the United States, Europe and Canada were partially offset by growth across the emerging markets. The Company believes the sales declines in the United States, Europe and Canada are attributable in part to patient treatment being delayed by health care providers in anticipation of new therapeutic options becoming available. Sales of Victrelis were $502 million in 2012 compared with $140 million in 2011, driven by post-launch growth in the United States and internationally, particularly in Europe. Victrelis was approved by the FDA in May 2011 and by the EC in July 2011. Sales of the Company’s products indicated for treatment of chronic hepatitis C including Victrelis and PegIntron discussed above, as well as Rebetol , continued to be adversely affected in 2013 by patient treatment being delayed by health care providers in anticipation of new therapeutic options becoming available. Sales of Rebetol , a product sold almost entirely in international markets, were particularly adversely affected by this trend given the markets where Rebetol is sold, as well as from generic competition. Worldwide sales of Rebetol declined 43% in 2013 to $74 million driven by declines in Japan and Europe. Cash flow revisions in the fourth quarter of 2013 indicated that the Rebetol intangible asset value was not recoverable on an undiscounted cash flows basis. Utilizing market participant assumptions, the Company concluded that its best estimate of the fair value of the intangible asset related to Rebetol was $94 million at December 31 2013, which resulted in an impairment charge of $156 million recorded within Materials and production costs. In the event that the availability of new treatment options adversely affects sales of products currently marketed by the Company for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C to a greater extent than anticipated by the Company, or in the event other circumstances arise that significantly reduce cash flow projections for these products, the Company may record additional intangible asset impairment charges in the future and such charges could be material. The carrying value of the intangible assets related to these products was $1.3 billion in the aggregate at December 31, 2013. Oncology Sales of Temodar (marketed as Temodal outside the United States), a treatment for certain types of brain tumors, declined 23% to $708 million in 2013 compared with 2012. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 3% in 2013. The sales decline was driven primarily by generic competition in the United States and Europe. As previously disclosed, by agreement, a generic manufacturer launched a generic version of Temodar in the United States in August 2013. The U.S. patent and exclusivity periods otherwise expired in February 2014. Temodar lost patent exclusivity in the EU in 2009. Accordingly, the Company is experiencing sales declines due to the loss of exclusivity in these markets and the Company expects these declines to continue. Sales of Temodar decreased 2% in 2012 to $917 million, including a 2% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. Sales declines in Europe from generic competition were offset by price increases in the United States. Global sales of Emend , for the prevention of chemotherapy-induced and post-operative nausea and vomiting, were $507 million in 2013, an increase of 4% compared with 2012 including a 1% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange, largely reflecting volume growth in the United States and the emerging markets, partially offset by a decline in Japan. Sales of Emend were $489 million in 2012, an increase of 17% compared with 2011 including a 2% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange, reflecting volume growth in the United States and Japan. Other Worldwide sales of ophthalmic products Cosopt and Trusopt were $416 million in 2013, a decline of 6% compared with 2012, reflecting a 7% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange and lower sales in Europe and Canada due to generic competition, partially offset by volume growth in Japan. The patent for Cosopt expired in a number of major European markets in March 2013 and the Company is experiencing sales declines in those markets. The patents that provided market exclusivity for Cosopt and Trusopt in the United States and for Trusopt in a number of major European markets had previously expired. Sales of Cosopt and Trusopt were $444 million in 2012, a decline of 7% compared with 2011 including a 4% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The sales decline primarily reflects lower sales in Europe due to generic erosion and price reductions, mitigated in part by higher Cosopt sales in Japan. 46 Table of Contents In November 2013, Merck sold the U.S. rights to ophthalmic products Cosopt , Cosopt PF and AzaSite to Akorn, Inc. The annual U.S. sales associated with these ophthalmic products were approximately $45 million. Bridion (sugammadex sodium injection), for the reversal of certain muscle relaxants used during surgery, is approved and has been launched in many countries outside of the United States. Sales of Bridion were $288 million in 2013, an increase of 10% compared with 2012. The sales growth was driven by volume growth in Europe, the emerging markets and Japan, partially offset by a 13% unfavorable effect of foreign exchange primarily on sales in Japan. Sales of Bridion grew 30% in 2012 to $261 million driven primarily by higher sales in Japan and the emerging markets. In September 2013, the Company received a CRL from the FDA for the resubmission of the NDA for sugammadex sodium injection (see “Research and Development” below). Saphris (asenapine), an antipsychotic indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder in adults, was previously marketed by the Company in the United States. Merck’s sales of Saphris were $158 million in 2013, $166 million in 2012 and $120 million in 2011. Asenapine, sold under the brand name Sycrest , is also approved in the EU for the treatment of bipolar I disorder in adults. Under a commercialization agreement for Sycrest sublingual tablets (5 mg, 10 mg), H. Lundbeck A/S (“Lundbeck”) makes product supply payments in exchange for exclusive commercial rights to Sycrest in all markets outside the United States, China and Japan. During the second quarter of 2013, the Company reduced cash flow projections for Saphris/Sycrest as a result of reduced expectations in international markets and in the United States. These revisions to cash flows indicated that the Saphris/Sycrest intangible asset value was not recoverable on an undiscounted cash flows basis. The Company utilized market participant assumptions and considered several different scenarios to determine its best estimate of the fair value of the intangible asset related to Saphris/Sycrest that, when compared with its related carrying value, resulted in an impairment charge of $330 million reflected in Materials and production costs. In January 2014, Merck sold the U.S. rights to Saphris to Forest Laboratories, Inc. (“Forest”). Under the terms of the agreement, Forest will make upfront payments of approximately $230 million and will make additional payments to Merck based on defined sales milestones. Other products contained in Hospital and Specialty include among others, Invanz , for the treatment of certain infections; Noxafil , for the prevention of certain invasive fungal infections; and Integrilin, a treatment for patients with acute coronary syndrome, which is sold by the Company in the United States and Canada. Diversified Brands Merck’s diversified brands include human health pharmaceutical products that are approaching the expiration of their marketing exclusivity or are no longer protected by patents in developed markets, but continue to be a core part of the Company’s offering in other markets around the world. Global sales of Cozaar and its companion agent Hyzaar (a combination of Cozaar and hydrochlorothiazide), treatments for hypertension, were $1.0 billion in 2013, a decline of 22% compared with 2012 including an 8% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The decline was driven largely by lower sales in Japan, Europe and Canada due to generic competition and the unfavorable effect of foreign exchange, particularly on sales in Japan. Sales of Cozaar/Hyzaar decreased 23% in 2012 to $1.3 billion driven by declines in most regions. The patents that provided market exclusivity for Cozaar and Hyzaar in the United States and in a number of major international markets have expired. Accordingly, the Company is experiencing significant declines in Cozaar and Hyzaar sales and the Company expects the declines to continue. Worldwide sales of Propecia , a product for the treatment of male pattern hair loss, were $283 million in 2013, a decline of 33% compared with 2012 including a 6% unfavorable impact from foreign exchange. The decline was driven primarily by generic competition in the United States, as well as by lower sales in Japan due largely to the unfavorable effect of foreign exchange. The Company lost U.S. market exclusivity for Propecia in 2013 and multiple generics have entered the market. Accordingly, the Company is experiencing a significant decline in U.S. sales of Propecia and expects the decline to continue. Sales of Propecia declined 5% in 2012 to $424 million compared with 2011 driven by declines in Europe and the United States, partially offset by increases in the Asia Pacific region. Global sales of Clarinex (marketed as Aerius in many countries outside the United States), a non-sedating antihistamine, declined 40% in 2013 to $235 million and decreased 37% in 2012 to $393 million driven by lower volumes in the United States and Europe as a result of generic competition. The Company anticipates that sales of Clarinex will continue to decline. 47 Table of Contents Global sales of Maxalt , a product for the acute treatment of migraine, fell 77% in 2013 to $149 million as compared with 2012 driven primarily by lower volumes in the United States due to generic competition. The patent that provided U.S. market exclusivity for Maxalt expired in December 2012 and the Company experienced a significant and rapid decline in U.S. Maxalt sales thereafter. In addition, the patents that provided market exclusivity for Maxalt expired in a number of major European markets in August 2013 and the Company is experiencing sales declines in those markets as well. Sales of Maxalt were $638 million in 2012, comparable with sales in 2011, reflecting higher sales in the United States driven by favorable pricing, offset by volume declines in Europe and Canada due to generic erosion. Other products contained in Diversified Brands include among others, Primaxin , an anti-bacterial product; Zocor , a statin for modifying cholesterol; prescription Claritin , a treatment for seasonal outdoor allergies and year-round indoor allergies; Remeron , an antidepressant; and Proscar, a urology product for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostate enlargement. Vaccines The following discussion of vaccines does not include sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through Sanofi Pasteur MSD (“SPMSD”), the Company’s joint venture with Sanofi Pasteur, the results of which are reflected in Equity income from affiliates (see “Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information” below). Supply sales to SPMSD, however, are included. Merck’s sales of Gardasil , a vaccine to help prevent certain diseases caused by four types of HPV, grew 12% to $1.8 billion in 2013 compared with 2012 driven primarily by volume growth in the United States, reflecting continued uptake in both males and females, and volume growth in Latin America, partially offset by lower volumes in Japan. Sales in 2013 and 2012 included $37 million and $44 million, respectively, of purchases for the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (“CDC”) Pediatric Vaccine Stockpile. On June 14, 2013, the Japanese Health Ministry issued an advisory to suspend active promotion of HPV vaccines. Accordingly, the Company recorded almost no sales of Gardasil in Japan in the second half of 2013. Merck’s sales of Gardasil rose 35% in 2012 to $1.6 billion compared with 2011 driven primarily by growth in the United States, reflecting continued uptake in males and higher government purchases for the CDC Pediatric Vaccine Stockpile, as well as growth in the emerging markets, particularly in Latin America and the Asia Pacific region, and in Japan. The Company is a party to certain third-party license agreements with respect to Gardasil (including a cross-license and settlement agreement with GlaxoSmithKline). As a result of these agreements, the Company pays royalties on worldwide Gardasil sales of 21% to 27% which vary by country and are included in Materials and production costs. Merck’s sales of ProQuad , a pediatric combination vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps, rubella and varicella, were $314 million in 2013, $61 million in 2012 and $34 million in 2011. Sales of ProQuad in 2012 and 2011 were affected by supply constraints. ProQuad became available again in the United States for ordering in October 2012. Merck’s sales of Varivax, a vaccine to help prevent chickenpox (varicella), were $684 million in 2013, $846 million in 2012 and $831 million in 2011. Merck’s sales of M-M-R II, a vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps and rubella, were $307 million in 2013, $365 million in 2012 and $337 million in 2011. Sales of Varivax and M‑M‑R II declined in 2013 due to the availability of ProQuad discussed above. Merck’s sales of Zostavax, a vaccine to help prevent shingles (herpes zoster) in adults 50 years of age and older, were $758 million in 2013, $651 million in 2012 and $332 million in 2011. Sales growth in 2013 as compared with 2012 was driven by higher demand in the United States and Canada, as well as by launches within the Asia Pacific region. The Company is continuing to launch Zostavax outside of the United States. Sales of Zostavax in 2011 were affected by supply issues. Merck’s sales of Pneumovax 23, a vaccine to help prevent pneumococcal disease, grew 13% in 2013 to $653 million compared with 2012 driven primarily by volume growth in the emerging markets, as well as volume and price increases in the United States. Merck’s sales of Pneumovax 23 increased 17% in 2012 to $580 million due primarily to growth in the United States as a result of price increases and higher volumes, partially offset by declines in Japan. Merck’s sales of RotaTeq, a vaccine to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children, grew 6% in 2013 to $636 million compared with 2012 reflecting higher pricing in the United States and volume growth 48 Table of Contents in Japan. Merck’s sales of RotaTeq declined 8% in 2012 to $601 million reflecting favorable public sector inventory fluctuations in 2011, partially offset by volume growth in the emerging markets and Japan in 2012. Other Segments The Company’s other segments are the Animal Health, Consumer Care and Alliances segments, which are not material for separate reporting. In January 2014, the Company announced that it was evaluating the respective roles of Merck’s Animal Health and Consumer Care businesses in the Company’s strategy for long-term value creation. The Company expects to complete the evaluation process and take action, if any, in 2014. The Company could reach different decisions about the two businesses. Animal Health Animal Health includes pharmaceutical and vaccine products for the prevention, treatment and control of disease in all major farm and companion animal species. Animal Health sales are affected by competition and the frequent introduction of generic products. Global sales of Animal Health products were $3.4 billion in 2013, a decline of 1% compared with 2012 including a 2% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The sales decline reflects lower sales of ruminant products, primarily Zilmax , partially offset by growth in companion animal and poultry products. In August 2013, Merck Animal Health voluntarily suspended sales of Zilmax , a feed supplement for beef cattle, in the United States and Canada. The suspension of Zilmax unfavorably affected Animal Health sales by 2% in 2013. Sales of Animal Health products were $3.4 billion in 2012, an increase of 4% compared with 2011 including a 5% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange, driven by positive performance among ruminant, poultry, companion animal and swine products. Consumer Care Consumer Care products include over-the-counter, foot care and sun care products such as Claritin non-drowsy antihistamines; MiraLAX , for the relief of occasional constipation; Dr. Scholl’s foot care products; and Coppertone sun care products. Consumer Care product sales are affected by competition and consumer spending patterns. Global sales of Consumer Care products were $1.9 billion in 2013, a decline of 3% compared with 2012 including a 1% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The sales decline in 2013 resulted from the termination in China of certain Consumer Care distribution arrangements and a reversal of sales previously made to these distributors, together with associated termination costs. Excluding these items, Consumer Care global sales would have increased by 1% in 2013 compared with 2012, including a 1% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange, reflecting higher sales of women’s health products, partially offset by lower sales of foot care products. In 2013, the Company launched Oxytrol for Women , the first and only over-the-counter treatment for overactive bladder in women. Consumer care product sales grew 6% in 2012, including a 1% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange, to $2.0 billion reflecting higher sales of Dr. Scholl’s , Coppertone , MiraLAX and Claritin , partially offset by lower sales of Marvelon , an oral contraceptive, which is an over-the-counter product in China. As discussed above, on December 31, 2013, the Company divested certain products to Aspen. Annual sales of these products reflected within Consumer Care were approximately $40 million. Alliances The alliances segment includes results from the Company’s relationship with AZLP. Revenue from AZLP, primarily relating to sales of Nexium and Prilosec, was $920 million in 2013 , $915 million in 2012 and $1.2 billion in 2011 . AstraZeneca has an option to buy Merck’s interest in a subsidiary, and through it, Merck’s interest in Nexium and Prilosec, exercisable in 2014, and the Company believes that it is likely that AstraZeneca will exercise that option (see “Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information” below). If AstraZeneca exercises its option, the Company will no longer record equity income from AZLP and supply sales to AZLP will terminate. In addition, the Company will recognize a non-cash pretax gain of approximately $700 million. 49 Table of Contents Costs, Expenses and Other ($ in millions) 2013 Change 2012 Change 2011 Materials and production $ 16,954 3 % $ 16,446 -3 % $ 16,871 Marketing and administrative 11,911 -7 % 12,776 -7 % 13,733 Research and development (1) 7,503 -8 % 8,168 -4 % 8,467 Restructuring costs 1,709 * 664 -49 % 1,306 Equity income from affiliates (404 ) -37 % (642 ) 5 % (610 ) Other (income) expense, net 815 -27 % 1,116 18 % 946 $ 38,488 — % $ 38,528 -5 % $ 40,713 * 100% or greater. (1) Includes $279 million , $200 million and $587 million of IPR&D impairment charges in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Materials and Production Materials and production costs were $17.0 billion in 2013 , $16.4 billion in 2012 and $16.9 billion in 2011 . Costs include expenses for the amortization of intangible assets recorded in connection with mergers and acquisitions which totaled $4.7 billion in 2013 and $4.9 billion in each of 2012 and 2011. Additionally, expenses in 2011 include $89 million of amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to Schering-Plough’s inventories recognized as a result of the Merger. Costs in 2013 and 2011 include intangible asset impairment charges of $486 million and $118 million, respectively. The impairment charges in 2013 related to changes in cash flow assumptions for currently marked products Saphris/Sycrest and Rebetol (see “Pharmaceutical Segment” above). The Company may recognize additional non-cash impairment charges in the future related to product intangibles that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with mergers and acquisitions and such charges could be material. Additionally, costs in 2013 include a $41 million intangible asset impairment charge related to a licensing agreement. Also included in materials and production were costs associated with restructuring activities which amounted to $446 million , $188 million and $348 million in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively, including accelerated depreciation and asset write-offs related to the planned sale or closure of manufacturing facilities. Separation costs associated with manufacturing-related headcount reductions have been incurred and are reflected in Restructuring costs as discussed below. Gross margin was 61.5% in 2013 compared with 65.2% in 2012 and 64.9% in 2011 . The amortization of intangible assets and purchase accounting adjustments to inventories, as well as the restructuring and impairment charges noted above reduced gross margin by 12.8 percentage points in 2013 , 10.7 percentage points in 2012 and 11.4 percentage points in 2011 . Excluding these impacts, the gross margin decline in 2013 as compared with 2012 was driven in part by the loss of Singulair sales as result of patent expiries in the United States in August 2012 and in major European markets in February 2013. In addition, generic competition in the United States for Maxalt , Temodar , Clarinex and Propecia coupled with changes in product mix and continued pricing pressures in mature markets also negatively affected gross margin in 2013. The gross margin decline in 2012 as compared with 2011 reflects the significant decline in Singulair sales as a result of the loss of U.S. market exclusivity, partially offset by improvements resulting from other changes in product mix. The Company anticipates that gross margin will continue to be negatively affected by the ongoing impacts of recent patent expiries and additional patent expiries that will occur in 2014. Marketing and Administrative Marketing and administrative expenses declined 7% in 2013 to $11.9 billion and decreased 7% in 2012 to $12.8 billion largely due to lower promotional spending and selling costs resulting from restructuring activities, and also reflecting the favorable effect of foreign exchange. Expenses for 2013 , 2012 and 2011 include restructuring costs of $145 million , $90 million and $119 million , respectively, related primarily to accelerated depreciation for facilities to be closed or divested. Separation costs associated with sales force reductions have been incurred and are reflected in Restructuring costs as discussed below. Expenses also include $94 million, $272 million and $278 million of acquisition-related costs in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, consisting of incremental, third-party integration costs related to the Merger, including costs related to legal entity and system integration. Acquisition-related costs for 2011 also consist of severance costs associated with the acquisition of Inspire Pharmaceuticals, Inc., which are not part of the Company’s formal restructuring programs. 50 Table of Contents Research and Development Research and development expenses were $7.5 billion in 2013 , $8.2 billion in 2012 and $8.5 billion in 2011 . Research and development expenses are comprised of the costs directly incurred by Merck Research Laboratories (“MRL”), the Company’s research and development division that focuses on human health-related activities, which were approximately $4.2 billion in 2013 and $4.5 billion in each of 2012 and 2011. Also included in research and development expenses are costs incurred by other divisions in support of research and development activities, including depreciation, production and general and administrative, as well as licensing activity, certain costs from operating segments, including the Pharmaceutical, Animal Health and Consumer Care segments, which in the aggregate were $2.9 billion, $3.4 billion and $3.2 billion for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The decline in research and development costs in 2013 as compared with 2012 was due to targeted reductions and lower clinical development spend as a result of portfolio prioritization, as well as lower payments for licensing activity. Research and development expenses in 2013, 2012 and 2011 were favorably affected by cost savings resulting from restructuring activities. Research and development expenses also include in-process research and development (“IPR&D”) impairment charges of $279 million , $200 million and $587 million in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively (see “Research and Development” below). The Company may recognize additional non-cash impairment charges in the future for the cancellation or delay of other pipeline programs that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with mergers and acquisitions and such charges could be material. Research and development expenses in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 reflect $101 million , $57 million and $138 million , respectively, of accelerated depreciation and asset abandonment costs associated with restructuring activities. In 2012, the Company recorded an adjustment to accelerated depreciation costs included in research and development expenses revising previously recorded amounts for certain facilities. Restructuring Costs Restructuring costs, primarily representing separation and other related costs associated with restructuring activities, were $1.7 billion , $664 million and $1.3 billion in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Costs in 2013 include $898 million of costs related to the 2013 Restructuring Program. Nearly all of the remaining costs recorded in 2013 and the costs recorded in 2012 and 2011 related to the Merger Restructuring Program. In 2013, 2012 and 2011, separation costs of $1.4 billion, $489 million and $1.1 billion, respectively, were incurred associated with actual headcount reductions, as well as estimated expenses under existing severance programs for headcount reductions that were probable and could be reasonably estimated. Merck eliminated approximately 6,070 positions in 2013 (of which 1,540 related to the 2013 Restructuring Program, 4,475 related to the Merger Restructuring Program and 55 related to the 2008 Restructuring Program), approximately 4,255 positions in 2012 (of which 3,975 related to the Merger Restructuring Program, 155 related to the 2008 Restructuring Program and 125 related to the legacy Schering-Plough program), and  approximately 7,590 positions in 2011 (of which 6,880 related to the Merger Restructuring Program, 450 related to the 2008 Restructuring Program and 260 related to the legacy Schering-Plough program). These position eliminations are comprised of actual headcount reductions, and the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. Also included in restructuring costs are curtailment, settlement and termination charges associated with pension and other postretirement benefit plans, share-based compensation plan costs, as well as contract termination and shutdown costs. For segment reporting, restructuring costs are unallocated expenses. Additional costs associated with the Company’s restructuring activities are included in Materials and production , Marketing and administrative and Research and development as discussed above. 51 Table of Contents Equity Income from Affiliates Equity income from affiliates, which reflects the performance of the Company’s joint ventures and other equity method affiliates, declined 37% in 2013 to $404 million compared with 2012 driven primarily by lower equity income from AZLP, partially offset by higher equity income from SPMSD. Equity income from affiliates increased 5% in 2012 to $642 million due primarily to higher equity income from AZLP. During 2011, the Company divested its interest in the Johnson & Johnson°Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company (“JJMCP”) joint venture. (See “Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information” below.) Other (Income) Expense, Net Other (income) expense, net was $815 million of expense in 2013 compared with $1.1 billion of expense in 2012 reflecting a $493 million net charge in 2012 relating to the settlement of certain shareholder litigation (the ENHANCE Litigation”) (see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements), partially offset by higher exchange losses in 2013 driven by $140 million of exchange losses related to a Venezuelan currency devaluation (see Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements), as well as higher interest expense in 2013 resulting in part from issuances of debt in September 2012 and May 2013. Other (income) expense, net was $1.1 billion of expense in 2012 compared with $946 million of expense in 2011 reflecting the $493 million net charge in 2012 relating to the settlement of the ENHANCE Litigation and gains recognized in 2011 of $136 million on the disposition of the Company’s interest in the JJMCP joint venture (see Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements) and $127 million on the sale of certain manufacturing facilities and related assets (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements), partially offset by a $500 million charge in 2011 related to the resolution of the arbitration proceeding involving the Company’s rights to market Remicade and Simponi and higher interest income in 2012. Segment Profits ($ in millions) 2013 2012 2011 Pharmaceutical segment profits $ 22,983 $ 25,852 $ 25,617 Other non-reportable segment profits 3,094 3,163 2,995 Other (20,532 ) (20,276 ) (21,278 ) Income before income taxes $ 5,545 $ 8,739 $ 7,334 Segment profits are comprised of segment sales less standard costs, certain operating expenses directly incurred by the segment, components of equity income or loss from affiliates and depreciation and amortization expenses. For internal management reporting presented to the chief operating decision maker, Merck does not allocate materials and production costs, other than standard costs, the majority of research and development expenses or general and administrative expenses, nor the cost of financing these activities. Separate divisions maintain responsibility for monitoring and managing these costs, including depreciation related to fixed assets utilized by these divisions and, therefore, they are not included in segment profits. Also excluded from the determination of segment profits are the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments and other acquisition-related costs, intangible asset impairment charges, restructuring costs, taxes paid at the joint venture level, a portion of equity income, other expenses from corporate and manufacturing cost centers and other miscellaneous income or expense. Additionally, segment profits do not reflect the charge related to the settlement of the ENHANCE Litigation recorded in 2012, the arbitration settlement charge, the gain on the divestiture of the Company’s interest in the JJMCP joint venture and a gain on the sale of certain manufacturing facilities and related assets recorded in 2011. All of these unallocated items are reflected in “Other” in the above table. Also included in “Other” are miscellaneous corporate profits (losses), as well as operating profits (losses) related to third-party manufacturing sales, divested products or businesses, and other supply sales. Pharmaceutical segment profits declined 11% in 2013 driven primarily by the effects of the loss of market exclusivity for certain products, particularly Singulair . Pharmaceutical segment profits increased 1% in 2012 driven primarily by lower operating expenses mostly offset by the effects of the loss of U.S. market exclusivity for Singulair . 52 Table of Contents Taxes on Income The effective income tax rates of 18.5% in 2013, 27.9% in 2012 and 12.8% in 2011 reflect the impacts of acquisition-related costs and restructuring costs, partially offset by the beneficial impact of foreign earnings. The effective tax rate in 2013 reflects a net benefit of $165 million from the settlements of certain federal income tax issues, net benefits from reductions in tax reserves upon expiration of applicable statutes of limitations, the favorable impact of tax legislation enacted in the first quarter of 2013 that extended the R&D tax credit for both 2012 and 2013, as well as an out-of-period net tax benefit of approximately $160 million associated with the resolution of a previously disclosed legacy Schering-Plough federal income tax issue (see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements). The effective tax rate for 2012 also reflects the favorable impacts of a tax settlement with the Canada Revenue Agency (the “CRA”), the realization of foreign tax credits and the impact of a favorable ruling on a state tax matter. In addition, the 2012 effective tax rate reflects the unfavorable impact of the net charge recorded in connection with the settlement of the ENHANCE Litigation for which no tax benefit was recorded and does not reflect any impacts for the R&D tax credit, which expired on December 31, 2011. As a result of legislation passed in 2013 that extended the R&D tax credit, both the 2012 and 2013 R&D tax credits were recognized in 2013 as noted above. The effective tax rate for 2011 reflects a net favorable impact of approximately $700 million relating to the settlement of Merck’s 2002-2005 federal income tax audit, the favorable impact of certain foreign and state tax rate changes that resulted in a net $270 million reduction of deferred tax liabilities on intangibles established in purchase accounting, and the unfavorable impact of a $500 million charge related to the resolution of the arbitration proceeding involving the Company’s rights to market Remicade and Simponi . Net Income and Earnings per Common Share Net income attributable to Merck & Co., Inc. was $4.4 billion in 2013 , $6.2 billion in 2012 and $6.3 billion in 2011 . EPS was $1.47 in 2013 , $2.00 in 2012 and $2.02 in 2011 . The declines in net income and EPS in 2013 as compared with 2012 were due primarily to lower sales reflecting the loss of market exclusivity for certain products, particularly Singulair , as well as higher restructuring costs, intangible asset impairment charges and exchange losses, partially offset by the favorable impact of certain tax items and lower operating expenses. EPS in 2013 benefited from lower average shares outstanding due to the ASR program (see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements). The decreases in net income and EPS in 2012 as compared with 2011 were due primarily to the net charge recorded in connection with the settlement of the ENHANCE Litigation, the effects of the loss of U.S. market exclusivity for Singulair in 2012 and the favorable impact of tax items in 2011, partially offset by lower marketing and administrative expenses, lower restructuring costs and lower intangible asset impairment charges in 2012 and the arbitration settlement charge recorded in 2011. Non-GAAP Income and Non-GAAP EPS Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS are alternative views of the Company’s performance used by management that Merck is providing because management believes this information enhances investors’ understanding of the Company’s results. Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude certain items because of the nature of these items and the impact that they have on the analysis of underlying business performance and trends. The excluded items consist of acquisition-related costs, restructuring costs and certain other items. These excluded items are significant components in understanding and assessing financial performance. Therefore, the information on non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, net income and EPS prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”). Additionally, since non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS are not measures determined in accordance with GAAP, they have no standardized meaning prescribed by GAAP and, therefore, may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures of other companies. Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS are important internal measures for the Company. Senior management receives a monthly analysis of operating results that includes non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS and the performance of the Company is measured on this basis along with other performance metrics. Senior management’s annual compensation is derived in part using non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS. 53 Table of Contents A reconciliation between GAAP financial measures and non-GAAP financial measures is as follows: ($ in millions except per share amounts) 2013 2012 2011 Pretax income as reported under GAAP $ 5,545 $ 8,739 $ 7,334 Increase (decrease) for excluded items: Acquisition-related costs 5,549 5,344 5,939 Restructuring costs 2,401 999 1,911 Other items: Net charge related to settlement of ENHANCE Litigation — 493 — Arbitration settlement charge — — 500 Gain on disposition of interest in JJMCP joint venture — — (136 ) Gain on sale of manufacturing facilities and related assets — — (127 ) Other (13 ) — 5 13,482 15,575 15,426 Taxes on income as reported under GAAP 1,028 2,440 942 Estimated tax benefit on excluded items 1,573 1,261 1,697 Net tax benefits from settlements of federal income tax issues 325 — 700 Tax benefit from foreign and state tax rate changes — — 270 2,926 3,701 3,609 Non-GAAP net income 10,556 11,874 11,817 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 113 131 120 Non-GAAP net income attributable to Merck & Co., Inc. $ 10,443 $ 11,743 $ 11,697 EPS assuming dilution as reported under GAAP $ 1.47 $ 2.00 $ 2.02 EPS difference (1) 2.02 1.82 1.75 Non-GAAP EPS assuming dilution $ 3.49 $ 3.82 $ 3.77 (1) Represents the difference between calculated GAAP EPS and calculated non-GAAP EPS, which may be different than the amount calculated by dividing the impact of the excluded items by the weighted-average shares for the applicable year . Acquisition-Related Costs Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude the impact of certain amounts recorded in connection with mergers and acquisitions. These amounts include the amortization of intangible assets and inventory step-up, as well as intangible asset impairment charges. Also excluded are incremental, third-party integration costs associated with the Merger, such as costs related to legal entity and system integration, as well as other costs associated with mergers and acquisitions, such as severance costs which are not part of the Company’s formal restructuring programs. These costs are excluded because management believes that these costs are not representative of ongoing normal business activities. Restructuring Costs Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude costs related to restructuring actions (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). These amounts include employee separation costs and accelerated depreciation associated with facilities to be closed or divested. Accelerated depreciation costs represent the difference between the depreciation expense to be recognized over the revised useful life of the site, based upon the anticipated date the site will be closed or divested, and depreciation expense as determined utilizing the useful life prior to the restructuring actions. Restructuring costs also include asset abandonment, shut-down and other related costs, as well as employee-related costs such as curtailment, settlement and termination charges associated with pension and other postretirement benefit plans and share-based compensation costs. The Company has undertaken restructurings of different types during the covered periods and, therefore, these charges should not be considered non-recurring; however, management excludes these amounts from non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS because it believes it is helpful for understanding the performance of the continuing business. Certain Other Items Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude certain other items. These items represent substantive, unusual items that are evaluated on an individual basis. Such evaluation considers both the quantitative and the qualitative aspect of their unusual nature and generally represent items that, either as a result of their nature or magnitude, management would not anticipate that they would occur as part of the Company’s normal business on a regular basis. 54 Table of Contents Certain other items are comprised of the net charge recorded in connection with the settlement of the ENHANCE Litigation, the arbitration settlement charge, the gain on the disposition of the Company’s interest in the JJMCP joint venture and the gain associated with the sale of certain manufacturing facilities and related assets. Also excluded from non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS are tax benefits from the resolution of certain federal income tax issues. Research and Development A chart reflecting the Company’s current research pipeline as of February 21, 2014 is set forth in