Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Description of Merck’s Business Merck & Co., Inc. (“Merck” or the “Company”) is a global health care company that delivers innovative health solutions through its prescription medicines, vaccines, biologic therapies and animal health products, which it markets directly and through its joint ventures. The Company’s operations are principally managed on a products basis and are comprised of three operating segments, which are the Pharmaceutical, Animal Health and Alliances segments, and one reportable segment, which is the Pharmaceutical segment. The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products marketed either directly by the Company or through joint ventures. Human health pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. The Company sells these human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Vaccine products consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. The Company sells these human health vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. The Company also has animal health operations that discover, develop, manufacture and market animal health products, including vaccines, which the Company sells to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. On October 1, 2014, the Company divested its Consumer Care segment that developed, manufactured and marketed over-the-counter, foot care and sun care products. Overview During 2014, Merck continued to execute its multi-year initiative to sharpen its commercial and research and development focus, redesign its operating model and reduce its cost base while remaining focused on innovation. The Company received approval for six products in the United States in 2014, including U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) approval for Keytruda for the treatment of advanced melanoma in patients whose disease has progressed after other therapies, Belsomra for the treatment of insomnia, and Gardasil 9, a nine-valent human papillomavirus (“HPV”) vaccine. Merck also enhanced its pipeline with external innovation, including the 2014 acquisitions of Idenix Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Idenix”), a company engaged in the discovery and development of next-generation treatments for hepatitis C virus (“HCV”), and OncoEthix, a privately held biotechnology company specializing in oncology drug development. In addition, Merck announced the acquisition of Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Cubist”), a leader in the development of new therapies to treat serious and potentially life-threatening infections caused by a broad range of increasingly drug-resistant bacteria, which closed in January 2015. Also, in 2014, Merck entered into a worldwide collaboration with Bayer AG (“Bayer”) to market and develop novel therapies for cardiovascular disease and other therapeutic indications. As part of Merck’s prioritization efforts, the Company continued to review its assets to determine whether they could provide the best short- and longer-term value with Merck or elsewhere. As a result, the Company divested its Consumer Care (“MCC”) business to Bayer, which provided capital to the Company to better resource its core areas of focus and return cash to shareholders. Merck determined that its Animal Health business remains a key growth driver and is committed to looking for ways to augment this business. As part of its intensified portfolio assessment process, the Company sold the U.S. marketing rights for Saphris, an antipsychotic indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder in adults, and divested certain ophthalmic products in Japan and markets in Europe and Asia Pacific. The Company’s portfolio assessment process is ongoing and future divestitures may occur. Worldwide sales were $42.2 billion in 2014 , a decline of 4% compared with 2013 , including a 1% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The decline reflects lower revenue resulting from the ongoing impacts of product divestitures and the loss of market exclusivity for several products, as well as the termination of the Company’s relationship with AstraZeneca LP (“AZLP”) and the divestiture of MCC. In addition, lower sales of products for the treatment of HCV also contributed to the sales decline. These declines were partially offset by growth in immunology, acute care, diabetes, and vaccine products, as well as higher sales from Merck’s Animal Health business. Within the core human pharmaceutical and vaccine business, Merck will continue to support its in-line portfolio, as well as ongoing and upcoming product launches. In 2014, the FDA granted accelerated approval for Keytruda , the Company’s anti-PD-1 (programmed death receptor-1) therapy for the treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma and disease progression following ipilimumab and, if BRAF V600 mutation positive, a BRAF inhibitor. Keytruda is currently under review in the European Union (the “EU”) for the treatment of 36 Table of Contents advanced melanoma. Merck expects to submit a supplemental Biologics License Application (“sBLA”) to the FDA for Keytruda for the treatment of patients with Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor mutation-negative, and Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase rearrangement-negative non-small-cell lung cancer whose disease has progressed on or following platinum-based chemotherapy in mid-year 2015. Keytruda continues to be studied in more than 30 cancers and in 20 combination settings, and Merck has presented data in a number of different tumor types (see “Research and Development” below). In addition, the FDA approved Belsomra for the treatment of adults with insomnia who have difficulty falling asleep and/or staying asleep, Gardasil 9, a nine-valent HPV vaccine, and Zontivity , a protease-activated receptor-1 (PAR-1) antagonist for the reduction of thrombotic cardiovascular events in patients with a history of myocardial infarction or with peripheral arterial disease. Also, in December 2014 prior to the Company’s acquisition of Cubist, the FDA approved Cubist’s Zerbaxa , a new combination product for the treatment of adults with complicated urinary tract infections caused by designated susceptible Gram-negative organisms or with complicated intra-abdominal infections caused by designated susceptible Gram-negative and Gram-positive organisms. Additionally, the Company currently has candidates under review with the FDA: MK-8616, Bridion (sugammadex) Injection, a medication for the reversal of two types of neuromuscular blocking agents used during surgery; and V419, an investigational pediatric hexavalent vaccine that the Company is developing in partnership with Sanofi Pasteur designed to help protect against six important diseases - diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis (whooping cough), polio (poliovirus types 1, 2, and 3), invasive disease caused by Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib), and hepatitis B. In addition, Zerbaxa is under review in the EU. As a result of prioritizing its research efforts, Merck is focused on the therapeutic areas that it believes can make the most impact on addressing critical areas of unmet medical need, such as cancer, hepatitis C, cardiometabolic disease, resistant microbial infection and Alzheimer’s disease. In 2014, Merck accelerated several of its key clinical programs, positioning the Company for long-term growth. The Company now has more than 10 candidates in Phase 3 clinical development in its core therapeutic areas, as well as other areas with significant potential. MK-5172A, an all-oral combination regimen consisting of MK-5172, grazoprevir, an investigational HCV NS3/4A protease inhibitor, and MK-8742, elbasvir, an investigational HCV NS5A replication complex inhibitor, is currently in Phase 3 clinical trials. The Company expects to file a New Drug Application (“NDA”) with the FDA in the first half of 2015 for MK-5172A. As a result of portfolio prioritization, the Company is out-licensing or discontinuing selected late-stage clinical development assets and reducing its focus on platform technologies. During 2014, the Company out-licensed MK-3222 (tildrakizumab), an investigational treatment for chronic plaque psoriasis, and divested its Sirna Therapeutics, Inc. subsidiary and related RNAi technology assets. The Company made strong progress in 2014 redesigning its operating model and reducing its cost base. As a result of disciplined cost management, Merck remains on track to achieve its overall savings goal by the end of 2015. As noted above, these savings have enabled the Company to better target its resources to key priorities across the enterprise. Marketing and administrative expenses and Research and development costs were down in 2014 as compared with 2013 reflecting lower selling and promotional spending and lower costs as a result of portfolio prioritization. In 2013, the Company announced a global restructuring program (the “2013 Restructuring Program”) as part of its global initiative to sharpen its commercial and research and development focus. As part of the program, the Company expects to reduce its total workforce by approximately 8,500 positions. These workforce reductions will primarily come from the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as research and development. The Company will also reduce its global real estate footprint and continue to improve the efficiency of its manufacturing and supply network. The Company recorded total pretax costs of $1.2 billion in both 2014 and 2013 related to this restructuring program. The actions under the 2013 Restructuring Program are expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2015 with the cumulative pretax costs estimated to be approximately $3.0 billion . The Company expects the actions under the 2013 Restructuring Program to result in annual net cost savings of approximately $2.0 billion by the end of 2015. The Company anticipates that the actions under the 2013 Restructuring Program, combined with remaining actions under the Merger Restructuring Program (discussed below), will result in annual net cost savings of $2.5 billion by the end of 2015 compared with full-year 2012 expense levels. The global restructuring program (the “Merger Restructuring Program”) that was initiated in 2010 subsequent to the Merck and Schering-Plough Corporation (“Schering-Plough”) merger (the “Merger”) is intended to 37 Table of Contents streamline the cost structure of the combined company. The workforce reductions associated with this plan relate to the elimination of positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as from the sale or closure of certain manufacturing and research and development sites and the consolidation of office facilities. The Company recorded total pretax costs of $730 million in 2014 , $1.1 billion in 2013 and $951 million in 2012 related to this restructuring program. The non-manufacturing related restructuring actions under the Merger Restructuring Program were substantially completed by the end of 2013. The remaining actions under this program relate to ongoing manufacturing facility rationalizations, which are expected to be substantially completed by 2016. The Company expects the estimated total cumulative pretax costs for this program to be approximately $8.5 billion and to yield annual savings upon completion of the program of approximately $4.0 billion to $4.6 billion. Costs associated with the Company’s restructuring actions are included in Materials and production costs, Marketing and administrative expenses, Research and development expenses and Restructuring costs . The Company estimates that of the projected costs associated with the above mentioned restructuring programs, approximately two-thirds of the cumulative pretax costs relate to cash outlays, primarily related to employee separation expense. Approximately one-third of the cumulative pretax costs are non-cash, relating primarily to the accelerated depreciation of facilities to be closed or divested. In November 2014, Merck’s Board of Directors raised the Company’s quarterly dividend to $0.45 per share from $0.44 per share. During 2014, the Company returned nearly $13 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. Earnings per common share assuming dilution attributable to common shareholders (“EPS”) for 2014 were $4.07 compared with $1.47 in 2013 . EPS in both years reflect the impact of acquisition and divestiture-related costs and restructuring costs, as well as certain other items, which in 2014 includes an $11.2 billion gain recognized in connection with the divestiture of MCC. Non-GAAP EPS, which excludes these items, were $3.49 in both 2014 and 2013 (see “Non-GAAP Income and Non-GAAP EPS” below). Competition and the Health Care Environment Competition The markets in which the Company conducts its business and the pharmaceutical industry are highly competitive and highly regulated. The Company’s competitors include other worldwide research-based pharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, and generic drug and animal health care manufacturers. The Company’s operations may be adversely affected by generic and biosimilar competition as the Company’s products mature, as well as technological advances of competitors, industry consolidation, patents granted to competitors, competitive combination products, new products of competitors, the generic availability of competitors’ branded products, and new information from clinical trials of marketed products or post-marketing surveillance. In addition, patent positions are increasingly being challenged by competitors, and the outcome can be highly uncertain. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect sales of existing products and could result in the recognition of an impairment charge with respect to intangible assets associated with certain products. Competitive pressures have intensified as pressures in the industry have grown. The effect on operations of competitive factors and patent disputes cannot be predicted. Pharmaceutical competition involves a rigorous search for technological innovations and the ability to market these innovations effectively. With its long-standing emphasis on research and development, the Company is well positioned to compete in the search for technological innovations. Additional resources required to meet market challenges include quality control, flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient distribution system and a strong technical information service. The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products through external alliances, such as joint ventures and licenses, and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to further address changing industry conditions. However, the introduction of new products and processes by competitors may result in price reductions and product displacements, even for products protected by patents. For example, the number of compounds available to treat a particular disease typically increases over time and can result in slowed sales growth or reduced sales for the Company’s products in that therapeutic category. The highly competitive animal health business is affected by several factors including regulatory and legislative issues, scientific and technological advances, product innovation, the quality and price of the Company’s products, effective promotional efforts and the frequent introduction of generic products by competitors. 38 Table of Contents Health Care Environment and Government Regulation Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access. In the United States, federal and state governments for many years also have pursued methods to reduce the cost of drugs and vaccines for which they pay. For example, federal laws require the Company to pay specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid and to provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain Public Health Service entities and hospitals serving a disproportionate share of low income or uninsured patients. Against this backdrop, the United States enacted major health care reform legislation in 2010 (the “Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act”), which began to be implemented in 2010. Various insurance market reforms have advanced and state and federal insurance exchanges were launched in 2014. By the end of the decade, the law is expected to expand access to health care to about 32 million Americans who did not previously have insurance coverage. With respect to the effect of the law on the pharmaceutical industry, the law increased the mandated Medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1%, expanded the rebate to Medicaid managed care utilization, and increased the types of entities eligible for the federal 340B drug discount program. The law also requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay a 50% point of service discount to Medicare Part D beneficiaries when they are in the Medicare Part D coverage gap (i.e., the so-called “donut hole”). Approximately $430 million, $280 million and $210 million was recorded by Merck as a reduction to revenue in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, related to the donut hole provision. Also, pharmaceutical manufacturers are now required to pay an annual non-tax deductible health care reform fee. The total annual industry fee was $3.0 billion in 2014 and will remain $3.0 billion in 2015. The fee is assessed on each company in proportion to its share of prior year branded pharmaceutical sales to certain government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. The Company recorded $390 million, $151 million and $190 million of costs within Marketing and administrative expenses in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, for the annual health care reform fee. The increase in expenses in 2014 reflects final regulations on the annual health care reform fee issued by the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) on July 28, 2014. The final IRS regulations accelerated the recognition criteria for the fee obligation by one year to the year in which the underlying sales used to allocate the fee occurred rather than the year in which the fee was paid. As a result of this change, Merck recorded an additional year of expense of $193 million in 2014. The full impact of U.S. health care reform cannot be predicted at this time. The Company also faces increasing pricing pressure globally from managed care organizations, government agencies and programs that could negatively affect the Company’s sales and profit margins. In the United States, these include (i) practices of managed care groups, federal and state exchanges, and institutional and governmental purchasers, and (ii) U.S. federal laws and regulations related to Medicare and Medicaid, including the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Changes to the health care system enacted as part of health care reform in the United States, as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, could result in further pricing pressures. As an example, health care reform is contributing to an increase in the number of patients in the Medicaid program under which sales of pharmaceutical products are subject to substantial rebates. In addition, in the effort to contain the U.S. federal deficit, the pharmaceutical industry could be considered a potential source of savings via legislative proposals that have been debated but not enacted. These types of revenue generating or cost saving proposals include additional direct price controls in the Medicare prescription drug program (Part D). In addition, Congress may again consider proposals to allow, under certain conditions, the importation of medicines from other countries. It remains very uncertain as to what proposals, if any, may be included as part of future federal budget deficit reduction proposals that would directly or indirectly affect the Company. Efforts toward health care cost containment remain intense in several European countries. Many countries have continued to announce and execute austerity measures, which include the implementation of pricing actions to reduce prices of generic and patented drugs and mandatory switches to generic drugs. While the Company is taking steps to mitigate the impact in these countries, the austerity measures continued to negatively affect the Company’s revenue performance in 2014 and the Company anticipates the austerity measures will continue to negatively affect revenue performance in 2015. In addition, a majority of countries attempt to contain drug costs by engaging in reference pricing in which authorities examine pre-determined markets for published prices of drugs by brand. The authorities then use price data from those markets to set new local prices for brand-name drugs, including the Company’s. Guidelines for examining reference pricing are usually set in local markets and can be changed pursuant to local regulations. 39 Table of Contents In addition, in Japan, the pharmaceutical industry is subject to government-mandated biennial price reductions of pharmaceutical products and certain vaccines. Furthermore, the government can order repricings for classes of drugs if it determines that it is appropriate under applicable rules. Certain markets outside of the United States have also implemented other cost management strategies, such as health technology assessments, which require additional data, reviews and administrative processes, all of which increase the complexity, timing and costs of obtaining product reimbursement and exert downward pressure on available reimbursement. The Company’s focus on emerging markets has increased. Governments in many emerging markets are also focused on constraining health care costs and have enacted price controls and related measures, such as compulsory licenses, that aim to put pressure on the price of pharmaceuticals and constrain market access. The Company anticipates that pricing pressures and market access challenges will continue in 2015 to varying degrees in the emerging markets. Beyond pricing and market access challenges, other conditions in emerging market countries can affect the Company’s efforts to continue to grow in these markets, including potential political instability, significant currency fluctuation and controls, financial crises, limited or changing availability of funding for health care, and other developments that may adversely impact the business environment for the Company. Further, the Company may engage third-party agents to assist in operating in emerging market countries, which may affect its ability to realize continued growth and may also increase the Company’s risk exposure. In addressing cost containment pressures, the Company engages in public policy advocacy with policymakers and continues to work to demonstrate that its medicines provide value to patients and to those who pay for health care. The Company advocates with government policymakers to encourage a long-term approach to sustainable health care financing that ensures access to innovative medicines and does not disproportionately target pharmaceuticals as a source of budget savings. In markets with historically low rates of health care spending, the Company encourages those governments to increase their investments and adopt market reforms in order to improve their citizens’ access to appropriate health care, including medicines. Operating conditions have become more challenging under the global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment efforts. Although no one can predict the effect of these and other factors on the Company’s business, the Company continually takes measures to evaluate, adapt and improve the organization and its business practices to better meet customer needs and believes that it is well positioned to respond to the evolving health care environment and market forces. The pharmaceutical industry is also subject to regulation by regional, country, state and local agencies around the world focused on standards and processes for determining drug safety and effectiveness, as well as conditions for sale or reimbursement. Of particular importance is the FDA in the United States, which administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. In some cases, the FDA requirements and practices have increased the amount of time and resources necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the United States. At the same time, the FDA has committed to expediting the development and review of products bearing the “breakthrough therapy” designation, which appears to have accelerated the regulatory review process for medicines with this designation. The EU has adopted directives and other legislation concerning the classification, labeling, advertising, wholesale distribution, integrity of the supply chain, enhanced pharmacovigilance monitoring and approval for marketing of medicinal products for human use. These provide mandatory standards throughout the EU, which may be supplemented or implemented with additional regulations by the EU member states. The Company’s policies and procedures are already consistent with the substance of these directives; consequently, it is believed that they will not have any material effect on the Company’s business. The Company believes that it will continue to be able to conduct its operations, including launching new drugs, in this regulatory environment. 40 Table of Contents Access to Medicines As a global health care company, Merck’s primary role is to discover and develop innovative medicines and vaccines. The Company also recognizes that it has an important role to play in helping to improve access to its products around the world. The Company’s efforts in this regard are wide-ranging and include a set of principles that the Company strives to embed into its operations and business strategies to guide the Company’s worldwide approach to expanding access to health care. In addition, the Company has many far-reaching philanthropic programs. The Merck Patient Assistance Program provides medicines and adult vaccines for free to people in the United States who do not have prescription drug or health insurance coverage and who, without the Company’s assistance, cannot afford their Merck medicine and vaccines. In 2011, Merck launched “Merck for Mothers,” a long-term effort with global health partners to end preventable deaths from complications of pregnancy and childbirth. Merck has also provided funds to the Merck Foundation, an independent organization, which has partnered with a variety of organizations dedicated to improving global health. Privacy and Data Protection The Company is subject to a significant number of privacy and data protection laws and regulations globally. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve. There has been increased attention to privacy and data protection issues in both developed and emerging markets with the potential to affect directly the Company’s business, including additional laws and regulations enacted in the United States, Europe, Asia and Latin America, increased enforcement and litigation activity in the United States and other developed markets, and increased regulatory cooperation among privacy authorities globally. The Company has adopted a comprehensive global privacy program to manage these evolving risks. Operating Results Sales Worldwide sales totaled $42.2 billion in 2014, a decline of 4% compared with $44.0 billion in 2013. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 1% in 2014. The decline reflects lower revenue resulting from the ongoing impacts of the loss of market exclusivity for several products, including Temodar , a treatment for certain types of brain tumors, Singulair , a once-a-day oral medicine for the chronic treatment of asthma and for the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis, and Cozaar and Hyzaar , treatments for hypertension. In addition, the sales decline was attributable to product divestitures that occurred in 2014 and 2013 as discussed below, the termination of the Company’s relationship with AZLP, as well as the divestiture of MCC on October 1, 2014. The revenue decline was also driven by lower sales of Victrelis and PegIntron , medicines for the treatment of chronic HCV, Nasonex , an inhaled nasal corticosteroid for the treatment of nasal allergy symptoms, and Vytorin , a cholesterol modifying product. These declines were partially offset by growth in Remicade and Simponi , treatments for inflammatory diseases, the diabetes franchise of Januvia / Janumet , Dulera Inhalation Aerosol, a combination medicine for the treatment of asthma, Implanon / Nexplanon , a single-rod subdermal contraceptive implant, as well as higher sales from acute care and animal health products. In addition, the Company recognized revenue of $232 million in 2014 in connection with the sale of the U.S. marketing rights to Saphris . Sales in the United States were $17.1 billion in 2014 , a decline of 6% compared with $18.2 billion in 2013 . The sales decrease was driven primarily by the termination of the Company’s relationship with AZLP, the divestiture of MCC and the ongoing impact of product divestitures. In addition, the decline reflects lower sales of Temodar , Victrelis , Vytorin and Nasonex , partially offset by higher sales of Dulera Inhalation Aerosol, the Januvia/Janumet franchise and Implanon/Nexplanon, as well as by the revenue recognized in connection with the sale of the U.S. marketing rights to Saphris . International sales were $25.2 billion in 2014 , a decline of 2% compared with $25.8 billion in 2013 . Foreign exchange unfavorably affected international sales performance by 2% in 2014 . The sales decrease reflects the divestiture of MCC. The decline was also driven by lower sales in the Pharmaceutical segment, reflecting declines in Japan, Europe and Canada. Sales in Japan declined 14% in 2014 , to $3.4 billion, of which 8% was due to the unfavorable effect of foreign exchange. The sales decline was largely driven by the biennial price reductions and repricings that occurred in 2014, product divestitures and the ongoing impacts of the loss of the market exclusivity for several products, including Cozaar and Hyzaar , as well as lower sales of Gardasil , a vaccine to help prevent certain diseases caused by four types of HPV, reflecting the Japanese government’s decision in 2013 to suspend proactive recommendation of HPV vaccines, partially offset by higher sales of Pneumovax 23, a vaccine to help prevent pneumococcal disease. Sales in Europe and 41 Table of Contents Canada declined 2% in 2014 , to $10.4 billion, including a 1% favorable effect from foreign exchange reflecting lower sales of Singulair , Nasonex and Victrelis , as well as from product divestitures and ongoing generic erosion and fiscal austerity measures in this region, partially offset by growth in Simponi , Remicade , Janumet and Januvia . Sales in the emerging markets were $7.8 billion in 2014 , essentially flat compared with 2013, including a 5% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange, reflecting higher sales of vaccine, acute care, and diabetes products, offset by lower sales of HCV products, as well from product divestitures. Total international sales represented 60% and 59% of total sales in 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access worldwide. In the United States, health care reform is contributing to an increase in the number of patients in the Medicaid program under which sales of pharmaceutical products are subject to substantial rebates. In many international markets, government-mandated pricing actions have reduced prices of generic and patented drugs. In addition, other austerity measures negatively affected the Company’s revenue performance in 2014. The Company anticipates these pricing actions and other austerity measures will continue to negatively affect revenue performance in 2015. In October 2013, the Company sold its active pharmaceutical ingredient (“API”) manufacturing business in the Netherlands and, effective December 31, 2013, certain related products within Diversified Brands. In November 2013, Merck sold the U.S. rights to certain ophthalmic products and in January 2014 sold the U.S. marketing rights to Saphris . In addition, the Company sold the U.S. rights to Zioptan in April 2014 and divested certain ophthalmic products in several international markets (most of which closed on July 1, 2014). On October 1, 2014, the Company sold its MCC business to Bayer including the prescription rights to Claritin and Afrin. The sales decline in 2014 attributable to these divestitures was approximately $1.1 billion, of which approximately $575 million related to the Pharmaceutical segment, $345 million related to the Consumer Care segment and $150 million related to the divested API manufacturing business (non-segment revenues). Also, as discussed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company’s relationship with AZLP terminated on June 30, 2014; therefore, effective July 1, 2014, the Company no longer records supply sales to AZLP which resulted in a sales decline of approximately $450 million in the Alliances segment. Worldwide sales totaled $44.0 billion in 2013, a decline of 7% compared with $47.3 billion in 2012. The sales decline was driven primarily by lower sales of Singulair . The patents that provided U.S. market exclusivity and market exclusivity in a number of major European markets for Singulair expired in August 2012 and February 2013, respectively, and the Company experienced a significant and rapid decline in Singulair sales in those markets thereafter. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 2% in 2013. The revenue decline in 2013 was also driven by lower sales of Maxalt , a product for the acute treatment of migraine, Cozaar and Hyzaar, Temodar , Clarinex , a non-sedating antihistamine, PegIntron, Propecia , a product for male pattern hair loss, Fosamax , for the treatment osteoporosis, and Vytorin . These declines were partially offset by growth in Gardasil , Remicade , Simponi , Janumet , Isentress , a treatment for HIV-1 infection, Dulera Inhalation Aerosol, and Zostavax , a vaccine to help prevent shingles (herpes zoster). 42 Table of Contents Sales of the Company’s products were as follows: ($ in millions) 2014 2013 2012 Primary Care and Women’s Health Cardiovascular Zetia $ 2,650 $ 2,658 $ 2,567 Vytorin 1,516 1,643 1,747 Diabetes Januvia 3,931 4,004 4,086 Janumet 2,071 1,829 1,659 General Medicine and Women’s Health NuvaRing 723 686 623 Implanon/Nexplanon 502 403 348 Dulera 460 324 207 Follistim AQ 412 481 468 Hospital and Specialty Hepatitis PegIntron 381 496 653 Victrelis 153 428 502 HIV Isentress 1,673 1,643 1,515 Acute Care Cancidas 681 660 619 Invanz 529 488 445 Noxafil 402 309 258 Bridion 340 288 261 Primaxin 329 335 384 Immunology Remicade 2,372 2,271 2,076 Simponi 689 500 331 Other Cosopt/Trusopt 257 416 444 Oncology Emend 553 507 489 Temodar 350 708 917 Keytruda 55 — — Diversified Brands Respiratory Nasonex 1,099 1,335 1,268 Singulair 1,092 1,196 3,853 Clarinex 232 235 393 Other Cozaar/Hyzaar 806 1,006 1,284 Arcoxia 519 484 453 Fosamax 470 560 676 Propecia 264 283 424 Zocor 258 301 383 Remeron 193 206 232 Vaccines (1) Gardasil 1,738 1,831 1,631 ProQuad/M-M-R II /Varivax 1,394 1,306 1,273 Zostavax 765 758 651 Pneumovax 23 746 653 580 RotaTeq 659 636 601 Other pharmaceutical (2) 4,778 5,570 6,300 Total Pharmaceutical segment sales 36,042 37,437 40,601 Other segment sales (3) 5,585 6,325 6,412 Total segment sales 41,627 43,762 47,013 Other (4) 610 271 254 $ 42,237 $ 44,033 $ 47,267 (1) These amounts do not reflect sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through the Company’s joint venture, Sanofi Pasteur MSD, the results of which are reflected in Equity income from affiliates . These amounts do, however, reflect supply sales to Sanofi Pasteur MSD. (2) Other pharmaceutical primarily reflects sales of other human health pharmaceutical products, including products within the franchises not listed separately. (3) Represents the non-reportable segments of Animal Health and Alliances, as well as Consumer Care until its divestiture on October 1, 2014. The Alliances segment includes revenue from the Company’s relationship with AZLP until termination on June 30,2014. (4) Other revenues are primarily comprised of miscellaneous corporate revenues, including revenue hedging activities, sales related to divested products or businesses, and other supply sales not included in segment results. Other revenues in 2014 include $232 million received by Merck in connection with the sale of the U.S. marketing rights to Saphris. Other revenues in 2013 reflect $50 million of revenue for the out-license of a pipeline compound. Other revenues also include third-party manufacturing sales, a substantial portion of which was divested in October 2013. 43 Table of Contents Pharmaceutical Segment Primary Care and Women’s Health Cardiovascular Combined global sales of Zetia (marketed in most countries outside the United States as Ezetrol ) and Vytorin (marketed outside the United States as Inegy ), medicines for lowering LDL cholesterol, were $4.2 billion in 2014, a decline of 3% compared with 2013. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 1% in 2014. The sales decline was driven primarily by lower volumes of Vytorin in the United States and Zetia in Canada where it lost market exclusivity. Combined worldwide sales of Zetia and Vytorin were $4.3 billion in 2013, essentially flat as compared with 2012 including a 1% unfavorable impact from foreign exchange, reflecting higher sales of Zetia in the United States due to pricing, partially offset by lower volumes of Vytorin in the United States. In November 2014, Merck announced that the investigational IMPROVE-IT study met its primary and all secondary composite efficacy endpoints. In IMPROVE-IT, patients taking Vytorin - which combines simvastatin with Zetia (ezetimibe) - experienced significantly fewer major cardiovascular events (as measured by a composite of cardiovascular death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke, re-hospitalization for unstable angina or coronary revascularization occurring at least 30 days after randomization) than patients treated with simvastatin alone. The results from this 18,144 patient study of high-risk patients presenting with acute coronary syndromes were presented at the American Heart Association 2014 Scientific Sessions. Merck plans to submit the data from IMPROVE-IT to the FDA in mid-2015 to support a new indication for reduction of major cardiovascular events for Vytorin and Zetia . Vytorin and Zetia are currently indicated for use along with a healthy diet to reduce elevated LDL cholesterol in patients with hyperlipidemia. The current U.S. Prescribing Information for both products states that the effect of ezetimibe on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, alone or incremental to statin therapy, has not been determined. By agreement, a generic manufacturer may launch a generic version of Zetia in the United States in December 2016. The U.S. patent and exclusivity periods for Zetia and Vytorin otherwise expire in April 2017. The Company has  market exclusivity for Zetia in major European markets until October 2017; however, the Company expects to apply  for pediatric extensions to the term which would extend the date to April 2018. The Company has market exclusivity for Vytorin in those markets until April 2019. For business reasons, the Company has no plans at this time to reintroduce Liptruzet to the U.S. market. The Company has not supplied Liptruzet in the United States since its January 2014 voluntary recall of that product due to packaging defects. The two active ingredients in Liptruzet remain available: Zetia from Merck, and atorvastatin as a generic from multiple manufacturers. In May 2014, Merck announced that the FDA approved Zontivity for the reduction of thrombotic cardiovascular events in patients with a history of myocardial infarction or with peripheral arterial disease. The U.S. prescribing information for Zontivity includes a boxed warning regarding bleeding risk. In January 2015, Zontivity was approved by the European Commission (the “EC”) for coadministration with acetylsalicylic acid and, where appropriate, clopidogrel, to reduce atherothrombotic events in adult patients with a history of myocardial infarction. Merck currently plans to launch Zontivity in the EU in late 2015 or early 2016. Diabetes Worldwide combined sales of Januvia and Janumet , medicines that help lower blood sugar levels in adults with type 2 diabetes, were $6.0 billion in 2014, an increase of 3% compared with 2013 including a 1% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The growth was driven primarily by higher sales of both Januvia and Janumet in the United States and by volume growth in Europe, partially offset by lower sales of Januvia in Japan due to lower pricing. In April 2014, all dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (“DPP-4”) inhibitors, including Januvia , were subject to repricing in Japan. Combined global sales of Januvia and Janumet were $5.8 billion in 2013, an increase of 2% compared with 2012 including a 3% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The sales growth reflects higher volumes outside of the United States. The Trial Evaluating Cardiovascular Outcomes with Sitagliptin (“TECOS”), an event-driven, cardiovascular outcomes study with sitagliptin, began in 2008 and enrolled over 14,000 patients. TECOS will evaluate the impact of sitagliptin on cardiovascular outcomes when added to usual care compared to usual care without sitagliptin in a large, high-risk type 2 diabetes population across multiple countries. TECOS is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2015 and the Company expects that the results of TECOS will be presented at the annual scientific meeting of the 44 Table of Contents American Diabetes Association in June 2015. If the results of the TECOS trial show a negative effect on cardiovascular outcomes or reveal another safety issue related to the use of sitagliptin, that could have a material adverse effect on the sales of Januvia and Janumet/Janumet XR . General Medicine and Women’s Health Worldwide sales of NuvaRing , a vaginal contraceptive product, were $723 million in 2014, an increase of 5% compared with 2013 including a 1% unfavorable impact from foreign exchange, largely reflecting higher pricing in the United States. Global sales of NuvaRing were $686 million in 2013, an increase of 10% compared with 2012, primarily reflecting volume growth and favorable pricing in the United States. Worldwide sales of Implanon/Nexplanon , a single-rod subdermal contraceptive implant, grew 25% to $502 million in 2014 compared with 2013 driven primarily by higher demand in the United States. Implanon/Nexplanon sales increased 16% to $403 million in 2013 compared with 2012 driven primarily by volume growth in the United States that was partially offset by declines in the emerging markets from pricing pressures. Global sales of Dulera Inhalation Aerosol, a combination medicine for the treatment of asthma, were $460 million in 2014, $324 million in 2013 and $207 million in 2012 reflecting higher demand in the United States. Dulera Inhalation Aerosol was approved by the FDA in June 2010. Global sales of Follistim AQ (marketed in most countries outside the United States as Puregon ), a fertility treatment, declined 14% to $412 million in 2014 compared with 2013 driven largely by lower pricing in the United States, as well as by lower sales in Europe driven primarily by volume declines. Sales of Follistim AQ grew 3% to $481 million in 2013 compared with 2012 driven largely by positive performance in the United States. The patent that provides market exclusivity for Follistim AQ in the United States expires in June 2015. In August 2014, Merck announced that the FDA approved Belsomra (suvorexant) for the treatment of adults with insomnia who have difficulty falling asleep and/or staying asleep. Belsomra became available in the United States in early 2015. Following receipt of marketing approval, Belsomra was launched in Japan in November 2014. The Company is continuing with plans to seek approval for suvorexant in other countries around the world. In April 2014, Merck announced that the FDA approved Grastek and Ragwitek tablets for sublingual use. Grastek is an allergen extract indicated as immunotherapy for the treatment of grass pollen-induced allergic rhinitis with or without conjunctivitis confirmed by positive skin test or in vitro testing for pollen-specific IgE antibodies for Timothy Grass or cross-reactive grass pollens. Grastek is approved for use in persons 5 through 65 years of age. Ragwitek is an allergen extract indicated as immunotherapy for the treatment of short ragweed pollen-induced allergic rhinitis with or without conjunctivitis confirmed by positive skin test or in vitro testing for pollen-specific IgE antibodies for short ragweed pollen. Ragwitek is approved for use in adults 18 through 65 years of age. Neither Grastek nor Ragwitek is indicated for the immediate relief of allergic symptoms. The prescribing information for Grastek and Ragwitek includes a boxed warning regarding severe allergic reactions. Both Grastek and Ragwitek , as well as an ongoing Phase 3 program for sublingual immunotherapy tablets for allergic rhinitis associated with house dust mites, are part of a North America partnership between Merck and ALK-Abello. Hospital and Specialty Hepatitis Worldwide sales of PegIntron , a treatment for chronic HCV, were $381 million in 2014, a decline of 23% compared with 2013, driven by lower volumes in most regions as the availability of new therapeutic options has resulted in loss of market share or led to patient treatment delays in markets anticipating the availability of new therapeutic options. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 3% in 2014. Global sales of PegIntron declined 24% to $496 million in 2013 compared with 2012 reflecting declines in all regions that were attributable in part to patient treatment being delayed by health care providers in anticipation of new therapeutic options becoming available. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 3% in 2013. Global sales of Victrelis , an oral medicine for the treatment of chronic HCV, were $153 million in 2014, a decline of 64% compared with 2013, driven by lower volumes in nearly all regions, particularly within the United States, as the availability of new therapeutic options has resulted in loss of market share or led to patient treatment delays in markets anticipating the availability of new therapeutic options. Worldwide sales of Victrelis were $428 million in 2013, a decline of 15% compared with 2012 including a 1% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. Sales declines 45 Table of Contents in the United States, Europe and Canada were partially offset by growth across the emerging markets. The sales declines in the United States, Europe and Canada were attributable in part to patient treatment being delayed by health care providers in anticipation of new therapeutic options becoming available. Sales of the Company’s products indicated for treatment of chronic HCV including Victrelis and PegIntron discussed above, as well as Rebetol , continue to be adversely affected by new therapeutic options becoming available. During 2014, these trends accelerated more rapidly than previously anticipated by the Company. In addition, developments in the competitive HCV treatment market led to market share losses that were greater than the Company had predicted. These factors caused changes in cash flow projections for PegIntron , Victrelis and Rebetol that indicated the intangible asset values were not recoverable on an undiscounted cash flows basis. The Company utilized market participant assumptions to determine its best estimate of the fair values of the intangible assets related to PegIntron , Victrelis and Rebetol that, when compared with their related carrying values, resulted in impairment charges of $793 million related to PegIntron, $244 million related to Victrelis and $35 million related to Rebetol recorded within Materials and production costs in 2014 . Sales of these products were adversely affected in 2013 by patient treatment being delayed by health care providers in anticipation of new therapeutic options becoming available. Sales of Rebetol , a product sold almost entirely in international markets, were particularly adversely affected by this trend given the markets where Rebetol is sold, as well as from generic competition. During 2013, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $156 million on the Rebetol intangible asset. In the event future circumstances arise that significantly reduce current cash flow projections for these products, the Company may record additional intangible asset impairment charges in the future. The carrying value of the intangible assets related to these products was $96 million in the aggregate at December 31, 2014 . Following receipt of market approval, Vanihep , an oral twice-daily protease inhibitor for the treatment of chronic HCV was launched in Japan in November 2014. Vanihep will be available only in Japan. HIV Worldwide sales of Isentress, an HIV integrase inhibitor for use in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection, increased 2% in 2014 to $1.7 billion compared with 2013 primarily reflecting volume growth in Europe and the emerging markets, particularly in Latin America resulting from government tenders, partially offset by volume declines in the United States reflecting competitive pressures. Global sales of Isentress grew 8% to $1.6 billion in 2013 compared with 2012 driven primarily by volume growth in the United States and Europe. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 1% in both 2014 and 2013. Acute Care Global sales of Cancidas , an anti-fungal product, increased 3% in 2014 to $681 million compared with 2013 largely reflecting volume growth in the Asia Pacific region, particularly in China. Sales of Cancidas increased 7% to $660 million in 2013 compared with 2012 reflecting growth in most emerging markets, as well as in Europe and Japan. Worldwide sales of Noxafil , for the prevention of invasive fungal infections, grew 30% in 2014 to $402 million and increased 20% in 2013 to $309 million driven by volume growth in the United States and Europe reflecting a positive impact from the approval of new formulations. Bridion , for the reversal of two types of neuromuscular blocking agents used during surgery, is approved and has been launched in many countries outside of the United States. Sales of Bridion rose 18% in 2014 to $340 million compared with 2013 driven by volume growth in all markets. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 6% in 2014. Sales of Bridion were $288 million in 2013, an increase of 10% compared with 2012. The sales growth was driven by volume growth in Europe, the emerging markets and Japan, partially offset by a 13% unfavorable effect of foreign exchange primarily on sales in Japan. In September 2013, the Company received a CRL from the FDA for the resubmission of the NDA for Bridion . To address the CRL, the Company conducted a new hypersensitivity study and, in October 2014, resubmitted the NDA to the FDA. The Company anticipates an FDA advisory committee meeting will be held on March 18, 2015 to review Bridion . If approved, the Company expects to launch Bridion in the United States later in 2015. In January 2015, Merck acquired Cubist, a leader in the development of new therapies to treat serious and potentially life-threatening infections caused by a broad range of increasingly drug-resistant bacteria. Cubist’s products include Cubicin , an I.V. antibiotic for complicated skin and skin structure infections or bacteremia, when caused by 46 Table of Contents designated susceptible organisms, Zerbaxa , a combination product recently approved by the FDA for the treatment of adults with complicated urinary tract infections caused by designated susceptible Gram-negative organisms or with complicated intra-abdominal infections caused by designated susceptible Gram-negative and Gram-positive organisms, and Sivextro for the treatment of acute bacterial skin and skin structure infections (“ABSSSI”) in adults caused by designated susceptible Gram-positive organisms. Both Zerbaxa and Sivextro are under review in the EU. Immunology Sales of Remicade, a treatment for inflammatory diseases (marketed by the Company in Europe, Russia and Turkey), were $2.4 billion in 2014, an increase of 4% compared with 2013 reflecting sales growth in Europe, partially offset by a decline in Russia. Sales of Remicade were $2.3 billion in 2013, an increase of 9% compared with 2012 including a 2% favorable effect from foreign exchange. Sales growth reflects volume growth in Europe, as well as Russia. In September 2013, the EC approved an infliximab biosimilar. While the Company is experiencing biosimilar competition in certain smaller European markets, the Company anticipates a more substantial decline in Remicade sales following loss of market exclusivity in major European markets in February 2015. Additionally, the Company anticipates mandatory price reductions in certain European markets. Sales of Simponi , a once-monthly subcutaneous treatment for certain inflammatory diseases (marketed by the Company in Europe, Russia and Turkey), grew 38% in 2014 to $689 million compared with 2013 driven by demand in Europe reflecting in part a positive impact from the ulcerative colitis indication. In September 2013, the EC approved Simponi for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies. Sales of Simponi were $500 million in 2013 compared with $331 million in 2012 driven by continued launch activities. Other Worldwide sales of ophthalmic products Cosopt and Trusopt declined 38% in 2014 to $257 million compared with 2013 driven largely by the divestiture of Cosopt and Trusopt in many international markets in 2014 and the sale of the U.S. rights to Cosopt and Cosopt PF in 2013 as discussed below. Sales of Cosopt and Trusopt were $416 million in 2013, a decline of 6% compared with 2012, reflecting a 7% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange and lower sales in Europe and Canada due to generic competition, partially offset by volume growth in Japan. In November 2013, Merck sold the U.S. rights to ophthalmic products Cosopt and Cosopt PF (as well as AzaSite through the sale of its Inspire Pharmaceuticals, Inc. subsidiary) to Akorn, Inc (“Akorn”). Also, as noted above, in May 2014, Merck entered into an agreement to sell certain ophthalmic products, including Cosopt and Trusopt , to Santen in Japan and markets in Europe and Asia Pacific. The transaction closed in most markets on July 1, 2014. The remaining markets closed on October 1, 2014. Merck continues to sell its ophthalmic products in markets not included in the transactions with Santen and Akorn. Merck’s sales of Saphris (asenapine), an antipsychotic indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder in adults, were $84 million in 2014, $158 million in 2013 and $166 million in 2012. In January 2014, Merck sold the U.S. marketing rights to Saphris to Forest Laboratories, Inc. (“Forest”). Under the terms of the agreement, Forest made upfront payments of $232 million, which are reflected in Sales in 2014, and will make additional payments to Merck based on defined sales milestones. In addition, as part of this transaction, Merck has agreed to supply product to Forest (subsequently acquired by Actavis plc) until patent expiry. Asenapine, sold under the brand name Sycrest , is also approved in the EU for the treatment of bipolar I disorder in adults. Under a commercialization agreement for Sycrest sublingual tablets (5 mg, 10 mg), H. Lundbeck A/S makes product supply payments in exchange for exclusive commercial rights to Sycrest in all markets outside the United States, China and Japan. During 2013, the Company recorded an impairment charge on the Saphris/Sycrest intangible asset (see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). Other products contained in Hospital and Specialty include among others, Invanz , for the treatment of certain infections; and Primaxin , an anti-bacterial product. Oncology Global sales of Emend , for the prevention of chemotherapy-induced and post-operative nausea and vomiting, were $553 million in 2014, an increase of 9% compared with 2013 including a 1% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange, largely reflecting volume growth in most regions. Sales of Emend were $507 million in 2013, an increase 47 Table of Contents of 4% compared with 2012 including a 1% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange, largely reflecting volume growth in the United States and the emerging markets, partially offset by a decline in Japan. Sales of Temodar (marketed as Temodal outside the United States), a treatment for certain types of brain tumors, declined 51%  to $350 million in 2014 and decreased 23% to $708 million in 2013. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 3% in both 2014 and 2013. The sales declines were driven primarily by generic competition in the United States, as well as in Europe. As previously disclosed, by agreement, a generic manufacturer launched a generic version of Temodar in the United States in August 2013. The U.S. patent and exclusivity periods otherwise expired in February 2014. Temodar lost patent exclusivity in the EU in 2009. Accordingly, the Company is experiencing sales declines due to the loss of exclusivity in these markets and the Company expects these declines to continue. In September 2014, Merck announced that the FDA granted accelerated approval of Keytruda at a dose of 2 mg/kg every three weeks for the treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma and disease progression following ipilimumab and, if BRAF V600 mutation positive, a BRAF inhibitor. Keytruda is the first anti-PD-1 (programmed death receptor-1) therapy approved in the United States. In June 2014, Merck announced the European Medicines Agency (the “EMA”) accepted for review a Marketing Authorization Application (“MAA”) for Keytruda for the treatment of advanced melanoma. The Company has made additional regulatory filings in other countries and further filings are planned. In December 2014, the Company estimates 2,000 patients were receiving treatment with Keytruda . Sales of Keytruda were $55 million in 2014. The Keytruda clinical development program also includes studies across a broad range of cancer types (see “Research and Development” below). In October 2014, Keytruda was granted Breakthrough Therapy Designation by the FDA for the treatment of patients with Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor mutation-negative, and Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase rearrangement-negative non-small-cell lung cancer whose disease has progressed on or following platinum-based chemotherapy. The Company anticipates submitting an sBLA to the FDA in mid-2015 for Keytruda . Diversified Brands Merck’s diversified brands include human health pharmaceutical products that are approaching the expiration of their marketing exclusivity or are no longer protected by patents in developed markets, but continue to be a core part of the Company’s offering in other markets around the world. Respiratory Global sales of Nasonex , an inhaled nasal corticosteroid for the treatment of nasal allergy symptoms, declined 18% to $1.1 billion in 2014 compared with 2013. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 2% in 2014. The sales decline was driven primarily by lower demand in the United States, as well as by lower volumes in Europe and Canada from generic competition. By agreement, generic manufacturers were able to launch a generic version of Nasonex in most European markets on January 1, 2014 and generic versions of Nasonex have since launched in several of these markets. Accordingly, the Company experienced a rapid decline in Nasonex sales in Europe in 2014 and expects the decline to continue. Sales of Nasonex increased 5% to $1.3 billion in 2013 compared with 2012 driven primarily by increases in the United States, reflecting net favorable adjustments to indirect customer discounts, as well as by volume growth in Japan, partially offset by declines in Latin America, Canada and Europe. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 3% in 2013. In 2009, Apotex Inc. and Apotex Corp. (collectively, “Apotex”) filed an application with the FDA seeking approval to sell its generic version of Nasonex . In June 2012, the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey ruled against the Company in a patent infringement suit against Apotex holding that Apotex’s generic version of Nasonex does not infringe on the Company’s formulation patent. In June 2013, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a decision affirming the U.S. District Court decision and the Company has exhausted all of its appeal options. If Apotex’s generic version becomes available, significant losses of U.S. Nasonex sales could occur and the Company may take a non-cash impairment charge with respect to the carrying value of the Nasonex intangible asset, which was $719 million at December 31, 2014 . If the Nasonex intangible asset is determined to be impaired, the impairment charge could be material. U.S. sales of Nasonex were $577 million in 2014 . Worldwide sales of Singulair, a once-a-day oral medicine for the chronic treatment of asthma and for the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis, were $1.1 billion in 2014, a decline of 9% compared with 2013 including a 5% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange, primarily reflecting lower sales in Europe as a result of generic competition. 48 Table of Contents The patents that provided market exclusivity for Singulair expired in a number of major European markets in February 2013 and the Company experienced significant and rapid declines in sales of Singulair in those markets following the patent expiries and expects the declines to continue. Global sales of Singulair fell 69% to $1.2 billion in 2013 compared with 2012 driven primarily by lower sales in the United States and Europe as a result of generic competition. The patent that provided U.S. market exclusivity for Singulair expired in August 2012. The patent that provides market exclusivity for Singulair in Japan will expire in 2016. Singulair sales in Japan were $537 million in 2014 . Global sales of Cozaar and its companion agent Hyzaar (a combination of Cozaar and hydrochlorothiazide), treatments for hypertension, declined 20% in 2014 to $806 million and decreased 22% in 2013 to $1.0 billion. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 4% and 8% in 2014 and 2013, respectively. The patents that provided market exclusivity for Cozaar and Hyzaar in the United States and in most major international markets have expired. Accordingly, the Company is experiencing significant declines in Cozaar and Hyzaar sales and expects the declines to continue. Worldwide sales of Fosamax (marketed as Fosamac in Japan) and Fosamax Plus D (marketed as Fosavance throughout the EU) for the treatment and, in the case of Fosamax , prevention of osteoporosis, decreased 16% in 2014 to $470 million and declined 17% in 2013 to $560 million driven by declines in all regions. These medicines have lost market exclusivity in the United States and in most major international markets. The Company expects the sales declines within the Fosamax product franchise to continue. Other products contained in Diversified Brands include among others, Clarinex , a non-sedating antihistamine; Arcoxia for the treatment of arthritis and pain; Propecia , a product for the treatment of male pattern hair loss, Zocor , a statin for modifying cholesterol; and Remeron , an antidepressant. Vaccines The following discussion of vaccines does not include sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through Sanofi Pasteur MSD (“SPMSD”), the Company’s joint venture with Sanofi Pasteur, the results of which are reflected in Equity income from affiliates (see “Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information” below). Supply sales to SPMSD, however, are included. Merck’s sales of Gardasil , a vaccine to help prevent certain diseases caused by four types of HPV, were $1.7 billion in 2014, a decline of 5% compared with 2013 including a 2% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The decline reflects lower sales in Asia Pacific, Japan and Canada, partially offset by higher government tenders in Brazil from the national immunization program, as well as higher public sector purchases in the United States. Merck’s sales of Gardasil grew 12% to $1.8 billion in 2013 compared with 2012 driven primarily by volume growth in the United States, reflecting continued uptake in both males and females, and volume growth in Latin America, partially offset by lower volumes in Japan. Sales in 2014, 2013 and 2012 included $56 million, $37 million and $44 million, respectively, of purchases for the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (“CDC”) Pediatric Vaccine Stockpile. In June 2013, the Japanese Health Ministry issued an advisory to suspend active promotion of HPV vaccines. The Company is a party to certain third-party license agreements with respect to Gardasil (including a cross-license and settlement agreement with GlaxoSmithKline). As a result of these agreements, the Company pays royalties on worldwide Gardasil sales of 19% to 27% which vary by country and are included in Materials and production costs. In December 2014, the Company announced that the FDA approved Gardasil 9, Merck’s 9-valent HPV vaccine, for use in girls and young women 9 to 26 years of age for the prevention of cervical, vulvar, vaginal, and anal cancers caused by HPV types 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52 and 58, pre-cancerous or dysplastic lesions caused by HPV types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58, and genital warts caused by HPV types 6 and 11. Gardasil 9 is also approved for use in boys 9 to 15 years of age for the prevention of anal cancer caused by HPV types 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52 and 58, precancerous or dysplastic lesions caused by HPV types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52 and 58, and genital warts caused by HPV types 6 and 11. Gardasil 9 includes the greatest number of HPV types in any available HPV vaccine. Merck’s sales of ProQuad , a pediatric combination vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps, rubella and varicella, were $395 million in 2014, $314 million in 2013 and $61 million in 2012. The increase in 2014 as compared with 2013 was driven primarily by higher sales in the United States reflecting approximately $30 million of government purchases for the CDC Pediatric Vaccine Stockpile. Sales of ProQuad in 2012 were affected by supply constraints. ProQuad became available again in the United States for ordering in October 2012. 49 Table of Contents Merck’s sales of Varivax, a vaccine to help prevent chickenpox (varicella), were $672 million in 2014, $684 million in 2013 and $846 million in 2012. Sales performance in 2014 reflects lower sales in the United States largely offset by growth in the emerging markets. Merck’s sales of M-M-R II, a vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps and rubella, were $326 million in 2014, $307 million in 2013 and $365 million in 2012. Sales of Varivax and M‑M‑R II declined in 2013 as compared with 2012 due to the availability of ProQuad discussed above. Merck’s sales of Zostavax, a vaccine to help prevent shingles (herpes zoster) in adults 50 years of age and older, were $765 million in 2014, an increase of 1% compared with 2013, driven primarily by higher sales in the Asia Pacific region due to ongoing launches, partially offset by lower demand in the United States, as well as in Canada. The Company is continuing to educate U.S. customers on the broad managed care coverage for Zostavax and the process for obtaining reimbursement. Merck’s sales of Zostavax grew 16% to $758 million in 2013 compared with 2012 driven by higher demand in the United States and Canada, as well as by launches within the Asia Pacific region. Merck is continuing to launch Zostavax outside of the United States. Merck’s sales of Pneumovax 23, a vaccine to help prevent pneumococcal disease, grew 14% in 2014 to $746 million compared with 2013 driven primarily by higher sales in Japan from the national immunization program, as well as higher sales in the United States attributable to both price and volume. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected sales performance by 3% in 2014. Merck’s sales of Pneumovax 23 increased 13% in 2013 to $653 million compared with 2012 driven primarily by volume growth in the emerging markets, as well as volume and price increases in the United States. Merck’s sales of RotaTeq, a vaccine to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children, increased 4% in 2014 to $659 million compared with 2013 primarily reflecting higher sales in certain emerging markets. Merck’s sales of RotaTeq grew 6% in 2013 to $636 million compared with 2012 reflecting higher pricing in the United States and volume growth in Japan. Other Segments The Company’s other segments are the Animal Health and Alliances segments, which are not material for separate reporting. Prior to its disposition on October 1, 2014, the Company also had a Consumer Care segment. Animal Health Animal Health includes pharmaceutical and vaccine products for the prevention, treatment and control of disease in all major farm and companion animal species. Animal Health sales are affected by competition and the frequent introduction of generic products. Global sales of Animal Health products totaled $3.5 billion in 2014, growth of 3% compared with 2013 including a 2% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The sales growth was driven primarily by higher sales of companion animal products, reflecting the launch of Bravecto in Europe and the United States, as well as higher sales of poultry and aqua products, partially offset by lower sales of Zilmax . In August 2013, Merck Animal Health voluntarily suspended sales of Zilmax , a feed supplement for beef cattle, in the United States and Canada. In May 2014, Merck announced that the FDA approved Bravecto chewable tablets for dogs to treat fleas and ticks. Bravecto is the first and only treatment that has been shown to quickly and effectively kill fleas and multiple tick species for 12 weeks in a single dose. Bravecto also is effective for eight weeks against Amblyomma americanum ticks. In addition, Bravecto has been approved and launched in approximately 30 countries outside of the United States. Global sales of Animal Health products were $3.4 billion in 2013, a decline of 1% compared with 2012 including a 2% unfavorable effect from foreign exchange. The sales decline reflects lower sales of ruminant products, primarily Zilmax , partially offset by growth in companion animal and poultry products. The suspension of Zilmax unfavorably affected Animal Health sales by 4% in 2014 and by 2% in 2013. Alliances The alliances segment includes results from the Company’s relationship with AZLP. On June 30, 2014, AstraZeneca exercised its option to buy Merck’s interest in a subsidiary and, through it, Merck’s interest in Nexium and Prilosec. As a result, as of July 1, 2014, the Company no longer records equity income from AZLP and supply sales to AZLP, primarily relating to sales of Nexium and Prilosec, have terminated (see “Selected Joint Venture and 50 Table of Contents Affiliate Information” below). Revenue from AZLP, primarily relating to sales of Nexium and Prilosec, was $463 million in 2014 through the termination date on June 30, 2014, $920 million in 2013 and $915 million in 2012 . Consumer Care As noted above, on October 1, 2014, the Company divested its Consumer Care segment. Consumer Care products included over-the-counter, foot care and sun care products. Global sales of Consumer Care were $1.5 billion in 2014, $1.9 billion in 2013 and $2.0 billion in 2012. Costs, Expenses and Other ($ in millions) 2014 Change 2013 Change 2012 Materials and production $ 16,768 -1 % $ 16,954 3 % $ 16,446 Marketing and administrative 11,606 -3 % 11,911 -7 % 12,776 Research and development (1) 7,180 -4 % 7,503 -8 % 8,168 Restructuring costs 1,013 -41 % 1,709 * 664 Equity income from affiliates (257 ) -36 % (404 ) -37 % (642 ) Other (income) expense, net (11,356 ) * 815 -27 % 1,116 $ 24,954 -35 % $ 38,488 — % $ 38,528 * 100% or greater. (1) Includes $49 million , $279 million and $200 million of IPR&D impairment charges in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Materials and Production Materials and production costs were $16.8 billion in 2014 , $17.0 billion in 2013 and $16.4 billion in 2012 . Costs include expenses for the amortization of intangible assets recorded in connection with mergers and acquisitions which totaled $4.2 billion in 2014, $4.7 billion in 2013 and $4.9 billion in 2012. Costs in 2014 and 2013 include intangible asset impairment charges of $1.1 billion and $486 million , respectively, related to marketed products (see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). The Company may recognize additional non-cash impairment charges in the future related to product intangibles that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with mergers and acquisitions and such charges could be material. Additionally, costs in 2013 include a $41 million intangible asset impairment charge related to a licensing agreement. Also included in materials and production were costs associated with restructuring activities which amounted to $482 million , $446 million and $188 million in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively, including accelerated depreciation and asset write-offs related to the planned sale or closure of manufacturing facilities. Separation costs associated with manufacturing-related headcount reductions have been incurred and are reflected in Restructuring costs as discussed below. Gross margin was 60.3% in 2014 compared with 61.5% in 2013 and 65.2% in 2012 . The amortization of intangible assets, as well as the restructuring and impairment charges noted above reduced gross margin by 13.6 percentage points in 2014 , 12.8 percentage points in 2013 and 10.7 percentage points in 2012 . Excluding these impacts, the gross margin decline in 2014 as compared with 2013 was driven primarily by the unfavorable effects of inventory write-offs largely related to Victrelis , as well as by changes in product mix, partially offset by the sale of the U.S. marketing rights to Saphris . The gross margin decline in 2013 as compared with 2012 was driven in part by the loss of Singulair sales as result of patent expiries in the United States in August 2012 and in major European markets in February 2013. In addition, generic competition in the United States coupled with changes in product mix and continued pricing pressures in mature markets also negatively affected gross margin in 2013 as compared with 2012. Marketing and Administrative Marketing and administrative expenses declined 3% in 2014 to $11.6 billion driven primarily by lower selling costs and promotional spending, the divestiture of MCC and the favorable effect of foreign exchange, partially offset by an additional year of expense related to the health care reform fee as discussed below, as well as higher acquisition and divestiture-related costs. Marketing and administrative expenses decreased 7% in 2013 to $11.9 billion largely due to lower promotional spending and selling costs resulting from restructuring activities, and also reflecting the favorable effect of foreign exchange. Expenses for 2014 , 2013 and 2012 include restructuring costs of $200 million , $145 million and $90 million , respectively, related primarily to accelerated depreciation for facilities to be closed or 51 Table of Contents divested. Separation costs associated with sales force reductions have been incurred and are reflected in Restructuring costs as discussed below. Expenses also include $234 million, $94 million and $272 million of acquisition and divestiture-related costs in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, consisting of incremental, third-party integration costs related to the Merger, including costs related to legal entity and systems integration, as well as transaction and certain other costs related to business acquisitions and divestitures. On July 28, 2014, the IRS issued final regulations on the annual non-tax deductible health care reform fee imposed by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act that is based on an allocation of a company’s market share of prior year branded pharmaceutical sales to certain government programs. The final IRS regulations accelerated the recognition criteria for the fee obligation by one year to the year in which the underlying sales used to allocate the fee occurred rather than the year in which the fee was paid. As a result of this change, Merck recorded an additional year of expense of $193 million during 2014. Research and Development Research and development expenses were $7.2 billion in 2014 , $7.5 billion in 2013 and $8.2 billion in 2012 . Research and development expenses are comprised of the costs directly incurred by Merck Research Laboratories (“MRL”), the Company’s research and development division that focuses on human health-related activities, which were approximately $3.7 billion in 2014, $4.2 billion in 2013 and $4.5 billion in 2012. Also included in research and development expenses are costs incurred by other divisions in support of research and development activities, including depreciation, production and general and administrative, as well as licensing activity, certain costs from operating segments, including the Pharmaceutical and Animal Health segments, as well as the Consumer Care segment until its divestiture on October 1, 2014, which in the aggregate were $2.8 billion, $2.9 billion and $3.4 billion for 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Costs for 2014 include an $85 million charge related to a collaboration with Bayer (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). The declines in research and development costs were driven by cost savings resulting from restructuring activities, targeted reductions and lower clinical development spend as a result of portfolio prioritization. The decline in these research and development expenses in 2013 as compared with 2012 also reflects lower payments for licensing activity. Research and development expenses also include acquired in-process research and development (“IPR&D”) impairment charges of $49 million , $279 million and $200 million in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively (see “Research and Development” below). The Company may recognize additional non-cash impairment charges in the future for the cancellation or delay of other pipeline programs that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with mergers and acquisitions and such charges could be material. Also, during 2014, the Company recorded a charge of $316 million to increase the estimated fair value of a liability for contingent consideration related to research projects obtained in connection with the acquisition of a business in a prior year (see Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements). Research and development expenses in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 reflect $283 million , $101 million and $57 million , respectively, of accelerated depreciation and asset abandonment costs associated with restructuring activities. Restructuring Costs Restructuring costs, primarily representing separation and other related costs associated with restructuring activities, were $1.0 billion , $1.7 billion and $664 million in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Costs in 2014 and 2013 include $594 million and $898 million , respectively, of costs related to the 2013 Restructuring Program. The remaining costs in 2014 and nearly all of the remaining costs recorded in 2013 and the costs recorded in 2012 related to the Merger Restructuring Program. In 2014, 2013 and 2012, separation costs of $674 million , $1.4 billion and $489 million, respectively, were incurred associated with actual headcount reductions, as well as estimated expenses under existing severance programs for headcount reductions that were probable and could be reasonably estimated. Positions eliminated under the 2013 Restructuring Program were approximately 4,555 in 2014 and 1,540 in 2013. Positions eliminated under the Merger Restructuring Program were approximately 1,530 in 2014 , 4,475 in 2013 and 3,975 in 2012 . These position eliminations are comprised of actual headcount reductions, and the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. Also included in restructuring costs are asset abandonment, shut-down and other related costs, as well as employee-related costs such as curtailment, settlement and termination charges associated with pension and other postretirement benefit plans and share-based compensation plan costs. For segment reporting, restructuring costs are unallocated expenses. Additional costs associated with the Company’s restructuring activities are included in Materials and production , Marketing and administrative and Research and development as discussed above. 52 Table of Contents Equity Income from Affiliates Equity income from affiliates, which reflects the performance of the Company’s joint ventures and other equity method affiliates, declined 36% in 2014 to $257 million compared with 2013. The decline was driven primarily by the termination of the Company’s relationship with AZLP. As discussed below, on June 30, 2014, AstraZeneca exercised its option to purchase Merck’s interest in a subsidiary and, through it, Merck’s interest in Nexium and Prilosec. Effective July 1, 2014, the Company no longer records equity income from AZLP. (See “Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information” below.) Equity income from affiliates declined 37% in 2013 to $404 million compared with 2012 driven primarily by lower equity income from AZLP, partially offset by higher equity income from SPMSD. Other (Income) Expense, Net Other (income) expense, net was $11.4 billion of income in 2014 compared with $815 million of expense in 2013 driven primarily by gains recognized in 2014 including an $11.2 billion gain related to the divestiture of MCC (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements), a $741 million gain related to AstraZeneca’s option exercise (see Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements), a $480 million gain on the sale of certain ophthalmic products in several international markets (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements) and a $204 million gain related to the divestiture of Sirna (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements), as well as by lower exchange losses in 2014 due to a Venezuelan currency devaluation in 2013 (see Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements). Partially offsetting the favorability of these items was a $628 million loss on extinguishment of debt in 2014 (see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements) and a $93 million goodwill impairment charge related to the Company’s joint venture with Supera (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). Other (income) expense, net was $815 million of expense in 2013 compared with $1.1 billion of expense in 2012 reflecting a $493 million net charge in 2012 relating to the settlement of certain shareholder litigation (the “ENHANCE Litigation”), partially offset by higher exchange losses in 2013 driven by $140 million of exchange losses related to a Venezuelan currency devaluation, as well as higher interest expense in 2013 resulting in part from issuances of debt in September 2012 and May 2013. Segment Profits ($ in millions) 2014 2013 2012 Pharmaceutical segment profits $ 22,164 $ 22,983 $ 25,852 Other non-reportable segment profits 2,546 3,094 3,163 Other (7,427 ) (20,532 ) (20,276 ) Income before income taxes $ 17,283 $ 5,545 $ 8,739 Segment profits are comprised of segment sales less standard costs, certain operating expenses directly incurred by the segment, components of equity income or loss from affiliates and depreciation and amortization expenses. For internal management reporting presented to the chief operating decision maker, Merck does not allocate materials and production costs, other than standard costs, the majority of research and development expenses or general and administrative expenses, nor the cost of financing these activities. Separate divisions maintain responsibility for monitoring and managing these costs, including depreciation related to fixed assets utilized by these divisions and, therefore, they are not included in segment profits. Also excluded from the determination of segment profits are acquisition and divestiture-related costs, including the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments and intangible asset impairment charges, restructuring costs, taxes paid at the joint venture level and a portion of equity income. Additionally, segment profits do not reflect other expenses from corporate and manufacturing cost centers and other miscellaneous income or expense. These unallocated items, including in 2014 gains on divestitures (including MCC), the gain on AstraZeneca’s option exercise, the loss on extinguishment of debt and an additional year of expense related to the health care reform fee, as well as the charge recorded in 2012 related to the settlement of the ENHANCE Litigation are reflected in “Other” in the above table. Also included in “Other” are miscellaneous corporate profits (losses), as well as operating profits (losses) related to third-party manufacturing sales, divested products or businesses, and other supply sales. Pharmaceutical segment profits declined 4% in 2014 compared with 2013 driven primarily by the unfavorable effects of product divestitures and loss of market exclusivity for certain products, partially offset by cost savings from productivity measures. Pharmaceutical segment profits declined 11% in 2013 compared with 2012 driven primarily by the effects of the loss of market exclusivity for certain products, particularly Singulair . The decline in other segment 53 Table of Contents profits in 2014 as compared with 2013 was driven primarily by the termination of the Company’s relationship with AZLP, as well as the divestiture of MCC. Taxes on Income The effective income tax rates of 30.9% in 2014 , 18.5% in 2013 and 27.9% in 2012 reflect the impacts of acquisition and divestiture-related costs and restructuring costs, partially offset by the beneficial impact of foreign earnings. The effective income tax rate for 2014 reflects the impact of the gain on the divestiture of MCC being taxed at combined U.S. federal and state tax rates. The effective income tax rate for 2014 includes a net tax benefit of $517 million recorded in connection with AstraZeneca’s option exercise (see Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements) and a benefit of approximately $300 million associated with a capital loss generated in connection with the sale of Sirna (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). The effective income tax rate for 2014 also includes the unfavorable impact of an additional year of expense for the non-tax deductible health care reform fee that the Company recorded in accordance with final regulations issued in the third quarter by the IRS. The effective tax rate in 2013 reflects a net benefit of $165 million from the settlements of certain federal income tax issues, net benefits from reductions in tax reserves upon expiration of applicable statutes of limitations, the favorable impact of tax legislation enacted in the first quarter of 2013 that extended the R&D tax credit for both 2012 and 2013, as well as an out-of-period net tax benefit of approximately $160 million associated with the resolution of a previously disclosed legacy Schering-Plough federal income tax issue (see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements). The effective tax rate for 2012 also reflects the favorable impacts of a tax settlement with the Canada Revenue Agency (the “CRA”), the realization of foreign tax credits and the impact of a favorable ruling on a state tax matter. In addition, the 2012 effective tax rate reflects the unfavorable impact of the net charge recorded in connection with the settlement of the ENHANCE Litigation for which no tax benefit was recorded and does not reflect any impacts for the R&D tax credit, which expired on December 31, 2011. As a result of legislation passed in 2013 that extended the R&D tax credit, both the 2012 and 2013 R&D tax credits were recognized in 2013 as noted above. Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was $14 million in 2014 , $113 million in 2013 and $131 million in 2012 . The decline in 2014 reflects the termination of the Company’s relationship with AZLP (see Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements). In addition, the amount for 2014 includes the portion of intangible asset and goodwill impairment charges related to the Company’s joint venture with Supera that are attributable to noncontrolling interests. Net Income and Earnings per Common Share Net income attributable to Merck & Co., Inc. was $11.9 billion in 2014 , $4.4 billion in 2013 and $6.2 billion in 2012 . EPS was $4.07 in 2014 , $1.47 in 2013 and $2.00 in 2012 . The increases in net income and EPS in 2014 as compared with 2013 were due primarily to the gain on the divestiture of MCC, a gain recognized on AstraZeneca’s option exercise, gains on other divestitures, lower operating expenses, higher favorability from discrete tax items, revenue recognized from the sale of the U.S. marketing rights to Saphris , partially offset by lower sales, a loss on extinguishment of debt, higher intangible asset impairment charges, and an additional year of expense for the health care reform fee. The declines in net income and EPS in 2013 as compared with 2012 were due primarily to lower sales reflecting the loss of market exclusivity for certain products, particularly Singulair , as well as higher restructuring costs, intangible asset impairment charges and exchange losses, partially offset by the favorable impact of certain tax items and lower operating expenses. Non-GAAP Income and Non-GAAP EPS Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS are alternative views of the Company’s performance used by management that Merck is providing because management believes this information enhances investors’ understanding of the Company’s results. Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude certain items because of the nature of these items and the impact that they have on the analysis of underlying business performance and trends. The excluded items consist of acquisition and divestiture-related costs, restructuring costs and certain other items. These excluded items are significant components in understanding and assessing financial performance. Therefore, the information on non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, net income and EPS prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”). Additionally, since non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS are not measures determined in accordance with GAAP, they have no standardized 54 Table of Contents meaning prescribed by GAAP and, therefore, may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures of other companies. Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS are important internal measures for the Company. Senior management receives a monthly analysis of operating results that includes non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS and the performance of the Company is measured on this basis along with other performance metrics. Senior management’s annual compensation is derived in part using non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS. A reconciliation between GAAP financial measures and non-GAAP financial measures is as follows: ($ in millions except per share amounts) 2014 2013 2012 Pretax income as reported under GAAP $ 17,283 $ 5,545 $ 8,739 Increase (decrease) for excluded items: Acquisition and divestiture-related costs 5,946 5,549 5,344 Restructuring costs 1,978 2,401 999 Other items: Gain on divestiture of Merck Consumer Care (11,209 ) — — Gain on AstraZeneca option exercise (741 ) — — Gain on the divestiture of certain ophthalmic products (480 ) — — Loss on extinguishment of debt 628 — — Additional year of expense for health care reform fee 193 — — Net charge related to settlement of ENHANCE Litigation — — 493 Other (9 ) (13 ) — 13,589 13,482 15,575 Taxes on income as reported under GAAP 5,349 1,028 2,440 Estimated tax (provision) benefit on excluded items (1) (2,345 ) 1,573 1,261 Tax benefits related to sale of Sirna Therapeutics, Inc. subsidiary 300 — — Net tax benefits from settlements of federal income tax issues — 325 — 3,304 2,926 3,701 Non-GAAP net income 10,285 10,556 11,874 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests as reported under GAAP 14 113 131 Acquisition and divestiture-related costs attributable to non-controlling interests 56 — — 70 113 131 Non-GAAP net income attributable to Merck & Co., Inc. $ 10,215 $ 10,443 $ 11,743 EPS assuming dilution as reported under GAAP $ 4.07 $ 1.47 $ 2.00 EPS difference (2) (0.58 ) 2.02 1.82 Non-GAAP EPS assuming dilution $ 3.49 $ 3.49 $ 3.82 (1) Amount for 2014 includes a net benefit of $517 million recorded in connection with AstraZeneca’s option exercise. (2) Represents the difference between calculated GAAP EPS and calculated non-GAAP EPS, which may be different than the amount calculated by dividing the impact of the excluded items by the weighted-average shares for the applicable year . Acquisition and Divestiture-Related Costs Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude the impact of certain amounts recorded in connection with mergers, acquisitions and divestitures. These amounts include the amortization of intangible assets, intangible asset impairment charges and expense or income related to changes in the fair value measurement of contingent consideration. Also excluded are incremental, third-party integration costs associated with the Merger, such as costs related to legal entity and systems integration, as well as transaction and certain other costs associated with business acquisitions and divestitures. These costs should not be considered non-recurring; however, management excludes these amounts from 55 Table of Contents non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS because it believes it is helpful for understanding the performance of the continuing business. Restructuring Costs Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude costs related to restructuring actions (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). These amounts include employee separation costs and accelerated depreciation associated with facilities to be closed or divested. Accelerated depreciation costs represent the difference between the depreciation expense to be recognized over the revised useful life of the site, based upon the anticipated date the site will be closed or divested, and depreciation expense as determined utilizing the useful life prior to the restructuring actions. Restructuring costs also include asset abandonment, shut-down and other related costs, as well as employee-related costs such as curtailment, settlement and termination charges associated with pension and other postretirement benefit plans and share-based compensation costs. The Company has undertaken restructurings of different types during the covered periods and, therefore, these charges should not be considered non-recurring; however, management excludes these amounts from non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS because it believes it is helpful for understanding the performance of the continuing business. Certain Other Items Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude certain other items. These items represent substantive, unusual items that are evaluated on an individual basis. Such evaluation considers both the quantitative and the qualitative aspect of their unusual nature and generally represent items that, either as a result of their nature or magnitude, management would not anticipate that they would occur as part of the Company’s normal business on a regular basis. Certain other items are comprised of a gain on the divestiture of MCC, a gain recognized in conjunction with AstraZeneca’s option exercise, including a related net tax benefit on the transaction, a gain on the divestiture of certain ophthalmic products in several international markets, a loss on extinguishment of debt, an additional year of expense related to the health care reform fee, a tax benefit from the sale of Sirna and tax benefits from the settlements of certain federal income tax issues, as well as the net charge recorded in connection with the settlement of the ENHANCE Litigation. Research and Development A chart reflecting the Company’s current research pipeline as of February 20, 2015 is set forth in