Q4 2017 Earnings Call

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to today's webcast and conference call on the 2017 annual
results of Volkswagen AG. For your information, this conference is being recorded. Today's call is
being hosted by `Oliver Larkin, Group Head-Investor Relations, Director of Global Investor Relations, Volkswagen AG. Please go
ahead.
`Oliver Larkin, Group Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, operator, and welcome, everybody, to today's webcast and conference call, which
follows the publication of our annual report and our annual press conference this morning here in
Berlin. We trust this new format is more inclusive and efficient for all participants. I'm delighted to
be joined today by our CEO, `Matthias Müller, Chairman of the Board of Management, Chairman of the Management Board, as well as
`Frank Witter, Member-Management Board & Finance and Controlling, CFO, and `Fred Kappler, Head of Group Sales, Head of Group Sales.
Matthias will now say a few words, followed by Frank, before we dive into your questions. So,
Matthias, it's over to you.
`Matthias Müller, Chairman of the Board of Management
Thank you, Oliver, and good afternoon, everyone, also from my side.
I would like to use this opportunity to give you a quick overview of what I regard as the core of
our annual summary. Against all odds, 2017 was a very successful year for us. It was a year in which
our group went back on the offensive, with plenty of new models from all brands in all markets,
pushing major strategic initiatives with new confidence.TOGETHER – Strategy 2025 has turned out to be a powerful catalyst for change, which was long
overdue. Many milestones of our plan for the future have already been met, and we are pushing
for more. I believe over the last two-and-a-half years, we have demonstrated that this company is
strong enough to overcome even the heaviest setbacks and that we can and will play a major
role in shaping the future of mobility despite the burdens from the past we still have to cope with.
I'm very proud that our operating business is stronger than ever and that our group's financial
situation is so robust. Under challenging conditions, we managed to improve nearly all of our key
performance indicators. All of our 12 brands and Financial Services contributed to this excellent
development. Obviously, the increased freedom we gave to the brands is paying off. At the
same time, we are working together on many key projects much more efficiently than in the past.
And that is something we intend to intensify. And I'm well aware that these scale effects
correspond to real bottom line improvements.
The fact that we are in such a good position today is, first of all, the result of true persistence and
great teamwork. And I'm really grateful for that. Now, it is up to us to keep it moving. We must not
allow our success to impede us from changing further.
Our industry is at a turning point. Standing still is not an option. We must push forward. Change is
necessary not only in terms of newer technologies and the business models of the future but
also regarding our own attitudes and corporate culture. I'm well aware that some of you might
ask whether a real cultural shift will ever happen at Volkswagen, a huge and complex organization
like ours, but I assure you every setback only strengthens my determination to push for change
because it is worth it and because this is the basis for future success.
Over the past year, we again strengthened our endeavors for compliance, integrity, and value-
based management. And our efforts are paying off. I do sense every day that we are indeed
moving step by step.
In 2018, we will speed up this change process. This includes driving Roadmap E, these initiatives
for autonomous driving and for our new mobility services and digitalization. And, of course, it also
includes making today's products and technologies better and better. We still have a long way to
go, but we won't lose pace. We won't lose determination. Ladies and gentlemen, I really
welcome and appreciate you supporting us on this fascinating journey.
And, now, I would like to hand over to Frank to say a few words.
`Frank Witter, Member-Management Board & Finance and Controlling `
Thank you, Matthias, for opening this part of today's event. I know the guys on the call much
appreciate that you are taking the time to make yourself available for our Q&A session. So,
welcome to all of you also from my side. I'm sure that all or most of you listened to the messages
from this morning. Nevertheless, I have a few more points to make briefly since the level of detail
you require tends to be a touch more.
For me, personally, I was pleased with the 2017 outcome. I can tell you honestly that, at midyear, I
did not expect such a boost and, for example, the continued push on R&D and CapEx really paid
off. Looking forward, I have always said that related to these two top KPIs, the years 2017, 2018,
and 2019 will be a dogfight, and I haven't changed my view.
I would like to pick up on the 2018 outlook statements Matthias made this morning. Some of you,
it seems, have been a little disappointed since we published the group headlines back on
February 22. Nevertheless, I believe the outlook is where it is for very valid reasons. WLTP,Worldwide Harmonized Light Vehicle Test Procedure, I love that, is a major challenge that hasn't
been really on the radar for investors until now. It brings a significant risk that could lead to some
temporary reduced model offerings.
The testing procedure itself is more time consuming. At the same time, there's a bottleneck with
the required testing capacities across Europe. And the balancing of production and sales through
the changeover will likely drive inventories significantly higher in the first half, although we hope to
get this down again by the end of the year. Overall, this scenario indicates a financially stronger H1
compared to H2.
The drive for more efficiency in CapEx and R&D will also continue, although we are expecting a
modest bump up in the numbers in 2018. There's a need to invest today in e-mobility and new
technologies if we want to be standing here in 10 years' time. Furthermore, from our point of
view, we should rather spend money now if the other choice means paying significant CO2-
related fines in the future.
Cash generation and liquidity is, of course, still a top priority, but we cannot ignore the diesel
outflows that have been made this year and the working capital effects from the temporary
inventory build I just mentioned. On top of that, we are still on negative outlook for Moody's, so
protecting decent automotive net liquidity is a must.
Coming back to the overall outlook, I think you know us enough by now. We won't promise
something we can't deliver, so let's now see how the year unfolds. I'm already looking forward to
our upcoming meetings and lively discussions with yourselves. As you know, we do listen and we
do care.
So enough talking from my side, now, Matthias, Fred, and I are looking forward for taking your key
questions.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. And we'll take our first question from `Michael Tyndall, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. from Citi.
Q - `Michael Tyndall, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Hi there, it's Mike Tyndall from Citi. Thanks for taking my questions. My first one is to Mr. Müller,
just in relation to diesel. You've been fairly vocal about the importance of diesel and that it is a
necessary technology as we move towards the 2020-2021 targets. The media, on the other
hand, is pretty much stuck with the rhetoric saying diesel is bad. So I'm curious to know, in your
view, how do we reeducate the public about diesel? How do we get them onboard,
understanding that Euro 6c and 6d are actually clean diesels as it were?
And then the second question just in relation to WLTP, is there a market share opportunity here?
Presumably, the challenges that you face, the industry is facing, you have much greater diversity
than everybody else. So if it is a question of diversity being reduced, do you end up having a
competitive advantage potentially on the back of this transition to WLTP? Thanks.
A - `Matthias Müller, Chairman of the Board of Management
Coming to your first question, which was in terms of diesel, as I mentioned it, I'm firmly convinced
that diesel will get, let me say, of any source (10:23). Why? The diesel Euro 6 from the
Volkswagen Group are clean and they fulfill the requirements of the law in beginning of 2020.And we will invest a lot of money in the development of the next diesel generation, which will
come to the markets in 2019. So we are firmly convinced that diesel has a great future, and we
have to convince our customers that they do a right decision if they buy a diesel.
Of course, you mentioned it. Diesel is important to reach the CO2 targets beginning 2020.
Because the other solution, which could be in theory electrified cars, but I suppose that the
infrastructure for high volume of the charging infrastructure for the electrified cars will not be
enough at the beginning of the next decade. So this is a reason why the Volkswagen Group is
doing all their efforts to promote diesel motor and diesel engines. And of course, I want to
mention it, the natural gas engines.
The second question was in terms of WLTP. Fred will answer it.
A - `Fred Kappler, Head of Group Sales
With the changeover from NEDC to WLTP, Volkswagen is meeting, of course, the requirements of
the authorities. And Volkswagen and all the brands of our group started to work on this topic at a
very early stage. Value measurements have only been possible since the law with its specific legal
requirements came into force. The measurements are being made in line with a coordinated
cross-brand time schedule, and we have quite a number of brands. So it was for us, also, a very
high organizational task. And we are adding to this task also our ambition to reduce complexity of
our powertrain range.
We are confident that we will be able to determine all the values required within the transitional
phase. Apart from the type testing itself, which is longer, the process is longer with WLTP than the
previous regime, each engine/transmission combination passes through an approval procedure
with a number of participants. External factors, which are beyond our control, play a key role in
this process. This includes the availability of the technical service, the test and the capacities of
the approval authorities concerned.
Our brands offer their customers a wide variety of models, variants, and equipment options. The
advantage is that all customers can tailor their cars in accordance with their individual wishes. As a
result, we also expect individual consumption data. And that connection with a changeover to
WLTP, this advantage calls for a high degree of detail and measurements approvals, which need
to be completed in only 13 months.
Although the law only came into force at the end of July last year, the changeover is already to be
completed during September this year. And your question is whether there is a market share
opportunity in that. I think it's too early to say, but you can be assured that we are well prepared
for the new regulation regime.
A - `Oliver Larkin, Group Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you.
Q - `Michael Tyndall, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Thanks very much.
A - `Oliver Larkin, Group Head-Investor Relations `
Thanks, Mike. Let's take the next question please, operator.
OperatorOur next question comes from `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG from Deutsche Bank.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
Thank you very much. It's actually `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG from Deutsche Bank. I have two other questions,
but I'd quickly like to follow up on Mike's diesel question because I thought that was quite
interesting. I think he was referring much more to the fact that how you can encourage and
restore trust among consumers in this technology again. Could you imagine to do something
similar to BMW offering customers the chance to return their newly bought diesel vehicles should
they be impacted by traffic bans? That would be that question.
And then my two questions are, on a potential change in group structure, Mr. Müller, you said this
morning when we asked about a Truck IPO potentially that you would inform us once you feel
ready. Let me rephrase this slightly. So do you generally share the view that a reduced complexity
and size of the group could be helpful in today's fast-moving world? And could you confirm that
Truck & Bus is at the high end of your asset reviews?
And then, Frank, just quickly on the free cash flow, obviously, pretty impressive underlying
numbers last year. I believe you told us you expect a relatively similar dividend from China going
forward. CapEx is expected to remain relatively low in percent of sales. Are you happy to give us
the guidance on the underlying free cash flow for this year? And if not, is it fair to assume that
free cash flow will develop in line with earnings? Thank you.
A - `Oliver Larkin, Group Head-Investor Relations `
I think we've got three questions there on diesel and structure. I think, Matthias, we'll pass those
to you, and then we'll come back to Frank for the cash flow.
A - `Matthias Müller, Chairman of the Board of Management
I will do it. So first, the question was in terms of diesel. Let me point out, the latest ruling of the
Federal Administrative Court in Germany, Bundesverwaltungsgericht, is relevant only for
Germany, not for other European countries. It allows German cities to impose in a city driving bans
for diesel engines, if these driving bans are appropriate and if driving bans represent the ultimate
ratio, for it is to improve air quality.
Therefore, the ruling is not at all a general driving ban for diesel engines. And the court
differentiated possible driving bans in accordance with EU classifications as follow, till September
2019, driving bans can be imposed under the defined conditions where EU4 engines and after
September 2019 also for EU5 engines. EU6 engines are not affected by any driving ban, and this
is important to get this information to the customers.
Volkswagen AG would like to point out that it sells, since autumn 2015, exclusively vehicles with
Euro 6 diesel engines. We would like to stress that the measures defined at the National Diesel
Forum such as software updates for Euro 5 and Euro 6 diesel engines was sales incentives as the
environmental and future incentives program to call (17:50) showing
immediate positive effects as rates of pollution are already decreasing in affected cities.
Volkswagen AG supports the VDA position that software updates versus hardware solutions
show a much quicker efficiency and avoid increasing CO2 emissions. Moreover, Volkswagen AG is
heavily engaged of the investment for sustainable mobility for the cities driving for further
optimization for inner city air quality by optimized traffic management systems, higher batteryelectric vehicle acceptance, including the improvement of better e-mobility infrastructure and
others.
So coming to the second question, which was in terms of governance, there are numerous press
articles about the Truck Holding and plans for listing IPO of the Truck division and what are our
plans. Currently, we are focusing on implementing our strategy and on driving the transition from
a startup company into a more mature, professional integrated corporation. We keep all options
open on our way to a global championship in terms of Truck & Bus.
And the third question, Frank, please.
A - `Frank Witter, Member-Management Board & Finance and Controlling `
Yes. Thanks, Matthias. On the free cash flow, I certainly can confirm that this is one of our top KPIs,
and everybody on the board and in senior management takes it very serious. Let me also confirm
because I know that you're always looking for the medium term. I continue to confirm for CapEx
and R&D that the 6% for 2020 is what we are still striving for, and what we assume to be able to
deliver.
2018, you got, I think, a glimpse of the reality we are dealing with. WLTP will have an impact on
inventory. So, I mentioned earlier, that we hope to be back into balance by year-end. But that
certainly also depends on customers coming into the door. We will have diesel outflows also in
calendar year 2018, not to forget. To give you an idea, we are talking probably €3.8 billion, €3.9
billion for the full year.
And I also talked about the modest bump on the ratio and absolute numbers for CapEx and R&D.
This is what we assumed. I think we did very well in our dogfight in 2017, but it was a dogfight till
December 31 to come in at the ratios which we assumed. We know exactly that the dogfight for
2018 is at least as tough as in 2017, but that's what we are in business for. So, you have all our
commitment that we will fight for free cash flow, but I certainly – I'm not sitting here today that I
can confirm that the €10 billion is exactly the number we are going to hit at the end of the day. But
we will work hard.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
Thank you.
A - `Oliver Larkin, Group Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Tim. Let's move on please, operator.
Operator
Our next question comes from José Asumendi from JPMorgan.
Q - `José M. Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
Thank you. José, JPMorgan, the first one for Matthias please. Can you give us any practical
examples of how the decision-making process at Volkswagen has improved, or accelerated by
either by product or by region? And then, can you talk a little bit about Brazil and North America?
So, who is running these operations and how do you ensure that the sort of right decisions with
regards to product launches are being executed?And then the second block please for Frank. Can you help us a little bit with volume, price mix, a
little bit of color on that? What happened there in the fourth quarter?
And then second, can you talk a little bit about the losses you have in North America and Brazil? I
believe you mentioned that in Brazil you're making several hundred million, so are the losses in
North America larger than what you're making in Brazil? And can you just give us a bit of a
roadmap with regards to the product launches that are going to help you cut these losses in
2018?
A - `Oliver Larkin, Group Head-Investor Relations `
José, thank you, you've got four questions in there. The practical examples on change, was the
first. I think the one on Brazil and North America is very specific for Volkswagen. Perhaps, we could
leave that for Dr. Diess to handle that and to discuss with you guys tomorrow. We shouldn't steal
his thunder. And then I'll leave the last two points on volume, mix, price and the losses in North
and South America to Frank to touch on. So, Matthias, maybe the practical examples of change.
A - `Matthias Müller, Chairman of the Board of Management
As far as I understood your question, you mean the decision-making process within Volkswagen.
And as I mentioned earlier, we have tried to decentralize our decision making process as we
gave much more power to our brands. And if we interpreted the figures right, we can see the
first results.
What – yeah. Some examples, what we tried to do is less hierarchy as well as in vertical also in
horizontal way. We have to be more agile. We have to be more innovative. We have to get more
criticism. And we have to learn from our mistakes we made in the past. This is – the last one is
very important issue.
We also mentioned product management. What we have in every brand is now a product
management like I found it is within Porsche where we had, for example, heavy product
management for the 911, Panamera or the Cayenne, and now – in the past, with the Mission E. We
have also for our brand product management within VW, within Audi, and within the other smaller
brands. And this works very well because this is in terms of the view of the customer and does
not only take care for technical solutions, but also for the requirements of the customers, and
very important in terms of the financial figures, and the time schedules.
A - `Frank Witter, Member-Management Board & Finance and Controlling `
Okay. Maybe wrapping up the pieces, you asked a question regarding Brazil and the United
States. I think you know (25:08) also has been a matter of fact in 2016 but also continued in 2017,
wherein Volkswagen passenger cars lost significant amounts in those markets. No surprise, we
made progress in 2017, but we still have significant losses in both markets, and the minimum
target we want to achieve is to be at breakeven at the latest in 2020.
The other aspect I think I heard how do we make sure or how does the group board make sure
that the decisions regarding individual markets like Brazil and North America are heading in the
right directions. I mean, you know the general principles. The group steers the brands and the
brands steer the regions and markets. That is the overall principle, but certainly the brand board
takes the liberty to request very thorough reviews with the individual brands and we certainly go
even a level deeper in the respective product and investment committees. So, we have a very
clear picture of what the brands are doing, even though we stick to what we said the brands are
steering the markets and the region.If you take a quick look at what were the main drivers in Q4, on the operating result, clearly
volume and mix. These were the two main items I would cite here. But you know from the past,
I'm always a bit reserved when it comes to what drove an individual quarter, I rather look at the
longer-term developments, but volume, mix, prices were certainly also on our side in the fourth
quarter of last year.
A - `Oliver Larkin, Group Head-Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you, Frank. Next, please?
Operator
Our next question comes from `Arndt Ellinghorst, Senior Managing Director & Partner at ISI Group, Evercore ISI UK Ltd from Evercore ISI.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Senior Managing Director & Partner at ISI Group, Evercore ISI UK Ltd `
Thanks a lot and good afternoon, two questions, please. First for Mr. Müller, do you actually
observe a consensus on VW's supervisory board to support your strong ambitions and views to
change the group's structure? And if so, moving forward, what do you think that consensus might
be on the supervisory board?
And then just there was a headline on  just now from an interview you gave, where
you said that you're going to make a decision in asset reviews in the next couple of days or
weeks. Could you give us a bit more insight into what that might be about?
And, secondly, for Frank, please. We saw really nice improvement in clean profitability last year
from 6.7% to 7.4%. However, when we dig into the details of the Annual Report, it seems that
most of the progress really is related to market factors, as you just mentioned, volume mix, also
SG&A costs. But we see very little progress in the group's core efficiency, so labor costs still
roughly at 17% of revenues, material costs up by roughly €10 billion from 75.4% to 76.9% of sales.
So when do you expect we can see more meaningful effect to improve – to really improve the
group's core cost base? Thank you.
A - `Matthias Müller, Chairman of the Board of Management
Arndt, thank you for your questions. To your first question in terms of supervisory board, our
supervisory board of management are committed to the portfolio optimization we are
negotiating. So let me say all options are open today. We will let you know at the time. I said in the
interview, yes, it could be days, it could be weeks, it could be months. I don't know. We have to
be patient because, as you know, this is a complex story, and we will take all the time we need to
get a good decision. And it's not only a question of Truck & Bus, as you know. It's a question of
the governance of the whole Volkswagen Group. There's no fire-sale. A fire-sale is not necessary.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Senior Managing Director & Partner at ISI Group, Evercore ISI UK Ltd `
Thank you.
A - `Frank Witter, Member-Management Board & Finance and Controlling `
Hi, Arndt. First of all, you surprised me a bit that I didn't get a challenge from you on the overall
guidance for 2018, but there might be room later. Cost improvements, just a reminder that in the
bridge for 2017, we obviously have product cost improvements, this €0.6 billion in the books. But
material cost is a challenge actually as we speak, the developments on steel and other relevant
raw materials.But in the medium term, and I would like to stress some things which are also related to this
morning. We are still in the continued rollout of MQB, which is a very critical part of our puzzle. We
have been roundabout at 40% overall, all brands bundled together. That means only 40% of all
products worldwide have been on MQB. That should increase by another 10% by the end of this
year and also further progress in 2019. So that is important.
And on the labor cost side, overall, it should be mentioned that the future pact, for example, for
Volkswagen brand passenger cars, is geared towards 2020. So most of those related effects will
certainly occur as planned and as to be expected at a later stage, but it is certainly part of the
recovery program for our most important brand. But certainly we need to continue to push, but
this is basically the way I would describe the path in today's world.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Senior Managing Director & Partner at ISI Group, Evercore ISI UK Ltd `
Thanks, Frank.
A - `Oliver Larkin, Group Head-Investor Relations `
Thanks, Frank. Let's go on to the next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (UK) from Société Générale.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (UK) `
Good afternoon. I have a couple of questions on SUVs, diesel, and also on SEAT. They're all linked
together. Looking at your CO2 average for 2017, which you published in your Annual Report
today, there's slight deterioration. You've gone from 120 grams to 122 from 120 in 2016. I would
guess partly that's relating to the mix, a higher share of SUVs in your sales and lower diesel sales.
If I look at your projections by 2020, I think you're looking to increase the share of SUVs in your
mix in Europe from about 20% in 2017 to about 34%. And I guess you'll also be expecting diesels
to be down as well just following with the trend, maybe not falling as fast as they've been falling
in 2017. Just what other options you have in terms of electrification, mild hybrids and the like? And
how much of that is going to be part of the mix because I would have guessed that pure battery
electric vehicles will still form a relatively small part of the sales figures in 2020?
And secondly on SEAT, still making about a 1% margin in the fourth quarter, you mentioned earlier
during the press conference how SEAT was also transitioning quite fast onto MQB, and obviously
we're seeing improving mix in SUVs as well. So I was wondering at what stage do you think we
should see SEAT beginning to get margins which are more akin to another brand company, like
for example, like a ŠKODA? Thank you.
A - `Frank Witter, Member-Management Board & Finance and Controlling `
Coming to the CO2 values for 2017, I think this was the first question. Yes, the higher share of
SUV has an effect on our CO2 values. And at the same time, this was a tendency not just in
Germany, but also in some other markets. We have a reduced take rate for diesel both
accumulated in the slightly higher CO2 value for 2017.
The share of SUV will continue to rise. We're just in the launch phase of some additional SUVs like
the T-Roc from Volkswagen, the Arona from SEAT. Some others will follow. On the other hand, I
think `Matthias Müller, Chairman of the Board of Management made it very clear in the press conference, of course, we are absolutelycommitted also in the year 2020 for the compliance of our CO2 values. Of course, alternative
powertrains are the way we are going to go in the next years. The fully electrical cars, 2018-2019,
we will launch some. In 2020, we have quite an avalanche of new models. But at the same time,
we will introduce step by step a number of hybrids, especially plug-in hybrids, which are very
favorable in terms of CO2.
And at the same time, we think the CO2 issue will also give a certain opportunity back to the
diesel that the diesel mix will increase again with Euro 6 WLTP engines. I think we have a perfect
portfolio in that as well. And we should not forget that we have the CNG engines available for a
number of vehicles. So there will be a change in the powertrain mix in the direction especially of
hybrids and electrical cars. And with all these effects, I'm pretty sure that we can reduce CO2
emissions to the level we need to reduce in 2020.
Okay, Stephen, I'll take the question as it relates to SEAT. First of all, I think on the board level, we
truly appreciate the fact that we don't report SEAT's numbers in red ink anymore. That has been
a matter of fact for the longest time. There are a couple issues which we need to remember.
First of all, SEAT is a rather small brand. This is certainly something which is putting a tremendous
amount of cost pressure on the brand. On the other hand – and this is also important since also
one of our top KPIs, SEAT is very strong on return on investment. So this is a brand which also
learned over time to be very efficient.
We also need to keep in mind, other than the volume limitation, the regional footprint is quite
limited. It's pretty much an all-European brand. There's certainly other volumes sold outside of
Europe but at a rather lower level. I think the better mix on SUVs will definitely help in the years to
come. But there's a huge volume gap to ŠKODA, for example, and also labor costs are different
between Spain and the Czech Republic.
But at the end of the day, we strongly believe that the product decisions and the strategic
decisions the board have been making on the level of SEAT are definitely turning the tide. Brand
perception is improving, brand image, which is extremely important also in terms of pricing. But it
will take time, but SEAT has committed to catch up with the other volume brands in our group.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (UK) `
Thank you.
A - `Oliver Larkin, Group Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Frank. Thank you, Stephen. Let's take the next question please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG from HSBC.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
Hello. It's Horst here from HSBC. Thanks for taking my questions too. I have got three questions,
please. First of all, on this revenue growth guidance, you say in 2018 you want to achieve as much
as 5%. Your target at the same time for the timeframe 2016 to 2020, at least 25% revenue
growth, so your 2018 guidance implies that 2019 and 2020 revenue growth is going to
accelerate. And I want to understand why that is or is by now, due to the FX development, the
25% revenue growth guidance already too ambitious maybe or maybe also why is then 2018 not
higher? That's, of course, the implied question.Then the other question that I have is since you have got this revenue growth as well in 2018, I still
want to understand why you don't have margin increase. So maybe you can break that down by
your earnings bridge items, how you expect volume, price/mix, FX, and variable and fixed cost to
develop in the course of 2018.
And the last question that I have is on electric vehicles. And you said you did the contract with all
your battery suppliers or most of your battery suppliers. I want to know if the statement is still
valid where you said that the pack price per kilowatt hour is going to be below €100 by 2020.
Thank you.
A - `Oliver Larkin, Group Head-Investor Relations `
Okay, Horst, you've got a good few questions in there. I think the first one is going to be on
revenue growth and what the drivers are within the overall mid-term context. And then another – I
guess, another question for Frank was on margin increase or the position in 2018. And then
coming back to battery electric vehicles and €100 per hour, which...
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
Correct.
A - `Oliver Larkin, Group Head-Investor Relations `
...I think we'll pass to Matthias.
A - `Frank Witter, Member-Management Board & Finance and Controlling `
Okay. Let me start. The revenue guidance for 2018, I think we talked at various occasions about
the challenges for the calendar year but you're right to assume, Horst, that headwind from
foreign exchange is a key driver, which leaves us with the current guidance for the full calendar
year. We are not changing the medium to long-term guidance as provided during the Capital
Markets Day.
Yeah. Margin, you took over from Arndt, 6.5% to 7.5% would lead us with – notwithstanding what
part of the range ultimately to be achieved but if you take the revenue, that leaves us with very
substantial operating profit. But we definitely gave this guidance in full light and in full
understanding of the challenges, which we have to manage and the better we, obviously, do that,
but not all of that is under our control.
If you do a little deeper dive into what's driving the 2018 numbers, I mean, volume, mix, price is
certainly on the positive side, as well as product cost improvements will help us, but we are up
against, obviously, fixed cost increases due to the – particularly due to the investments we did in
the previous years. And I also mentioned currencies to be not our friend most likely. And that is
the combination which leads us to the guidance as provided.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
About which FX burden we talked in here for 2018, roughly if the rates stay where they are right
now?
A - `Frank Witter, Member-Management Board & Finance and Controlling `
On currency?Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
Yeah.
A - `Frank Witter, Member-Management Board & Finance and Controlling `
It's four-digit negative million euros.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
Okay.
A - `Frank Witter, Member-Management Board & Finance and Controlling `
In which currency?
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
Yes.
A - `Frank Witter, Member-Management Board & Finance and Controlling `
Yeah. I mean, that was – the four digit reference was in total. I think the usual suspects U.S. dollars,
reis, to a smaller extent probably, the ruble, Mexican peso. This is roundabout what we are
looking at.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
Okay. All right. But it's right that you expect now that acceleration of growth in 2019 and 2020?
That's the right interpretation, right, of everything?
A - `Frank Witter, Member-Management Board & Finance and Controlling `
Let's do the guidance for the individual years between 2020 and now when we are closer to
when I confirm the medium-term outlook and – but there are still – I mean, take the exchange rate
effects, which have quite a significant impact given our international footprint. So, the medium-
term guidance is still intact, but, obviously, headwinds need to be managed and this is certainly
not an easy task given the numbers we are dealing with.
A - `Oliver Larkin, Group Head-Investor Relations `
Okay.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
All right, thank you.
A - `Oliver Larkin, Group Head-Investor Relations `
Let's switch to Matthias now on batteries. Thank you.
A - `Matthias Müller, Chairman of the Board of Management
Mr. Schneider, you asked for the battery costs in terms of electrical vehicle and that's where we
have been able to finish contracts less than €100 below – below €100 for 1 kilowatt hour. AndQ - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
Okay, interesting. Thank you.
A - `Oliver Larkin, Group Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Horst. Thank you, Matthias. Let's move on, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Adam Hull, Analyst, MainFirst Bank AG (UK) from MainFirst.
Q - `Adam Hull, Analyst, MainFirst Bank AG (UK) `
Hi. Good afternoon, three questions, firstly, on R&D, obviously, very low capitalizing rate, 32% in
Q4. I understand that it's going to be a fairly low rate into 2018. Maybe if you could just give us a
bit more of an indication of that, obviously, 40% last year, I think 42% the previous year, obviously,
hurting your P&L. Maybe you could give us some reasoning what that is, is that more on the
electric cars, et cetera?
Secondly, on Financial Services, strong Q4 but could you just give us a feeling for what your lease
exposure is, say, to German Euro 5 cars, just to get a feel for the sensitivity to possible bans?
And then finally, with regard to the diesel crisis cash payments, I think Q4, the payment was €2.0
billion, I think a little less than the €2.5 billion you suggested in Q3. And are you saying that €3.8
billion to €3.9 billion in 2018, is that the whole amount? You, I think, previously indicating €4.5
billion to €5 billion or shall we see something negative also potentially in 2019? Thanks.
A - `Oliver Larkin, Group Head-Investor Relations `
Okay, back to a standard conference call, Frank. I think that's three questions for you.
A - `Frank Witter, Member-Management Board & Finance and Controlling `
So let's start maybe with the diesel payments first. For 2018, the number I made reference to is a
full year number, so of roundabout €3.8 billion, €3.9 billion for the full calendar year. And there's
also roundabout €1 billion to be expected in 2019. This is currently the best guidance we can give.
But those numbers are floating because it has to do with legal exposure and also the numerous
technical solutions, repairs and buybacks we have to manage. So, there's volatility in those
numbers, but this is currently the best guidance we can provide.
Q - `Adam Hull, Analyst, MainFirst Bank AG (UK) `
Could I just ask...
A - `Frank Witter, Member-Management Board & Finance and Controlling `
That is the net or is just the out payment. This is a net outflow.
Q - `Adam Hull, Analyst, MainFirst Bank AG (UK) `
Great.
A - `Frank Witter, Member-Management Board & Finance and Controlling `Yeah. So, then with respect to the capitalization, we, obviously, came down from, I think, 42% in
2016, down to 40% for the full calendar year in 2017. The way I would describe it is what we are
seeing now is the normalization of our capitalization ratio, which traditionally was closer to 35%,
37% than the numbers you have been seeing in 2016 and 2017, particularly driven by the array of
products at a very late development stage, which is, obviously, also preparing ourselves for
future market success with the cars being launched in the near future.
So in that respect, 2018, we should see a continued normalization more in the 30s than in – the
numbers should have a three in the front rather than a four. And if I'm not mistaken, roundabout
36% to 38% is the number I'm remembering from top of my head. That should be probably the
2018 number in terms of capitalization.
So if you want to – the good news in terms of not burdening the future to the extent (47:30). And
I think I shouldn't forget the question on EU5 vehicles of roundabout 14% of the entire portfolio is
related to EU5 vehicles in Germany. Let me also shed some light on that discussion because
sometimes it tends to be a bit one dimensional. Certainly there is currently pressure on residual
values for leasing cars, more in Germany than in probably most other markets, but we also need
to look at the portfolio aspect of it.
So, first of all, only a portion consists of those cars. And secondly, if people don't show that
amount of interest at least temporarily on diesel, they tend to lean then towards to gasoline. And
if you look from a portfolio perspective, prices, obviously, have increased on gasoline cars, may it
be our portfolio or the dealer portfolios. So, there is an offset and the world isn't just black and
white and it isn't all negative, even though, certainly, the earlier we get clarity on the driving ban
for diesel cars and hopefully the avoidance thereof, then, obviously, we are pretty comfortable to
assume that there will be a normalization in the way demand for diesel cars develop, used and
new.
Q - `Adam Hull, Analyst, MainFirst Bank AG (UK) `
And could I just confirm, you, obviously, review the portfolio at the end of the year and so you're
comfortable with having, I guess, made some adjustments at the end of the year because you're
giving guidance for flat profit this year even if there is maybe possibility of diesel bans on
Financial Services?
A - `Matthias Müller, Chairman of the Board of Management
No. Actually, not only just annually, we continuously, so to speak, monthly update and validate our
assumptions and so there is a continuous monitoring process. And you can, rest assured, given
our overall conservative approach also in the Financial Services community, that we are properly
reserved for the potential risks within our portfolio. But let me reiterate again, it is a portfolio
consisting of cars depreciating and appreciating in value, so it's a combination of and the picture
isn't as grim as some folks might have assumed.
Q - `Adam Hull, Analyst, MainFirst Bank AG (UK) `
Great, thanks very much.
A - `Oliver Larkin, Group Head-Investor Relations `
Thanks, Adam. Let's take the next question, please, operator.
OperatorOur next question comes from `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG from UBS.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG `
Yes, thanks. Good afternoon, everybody. As nobody else has said it, let me say the format is
great. I like it a lot. I think we all appreciate that it's much more efficient than the prior format.
I have three questions left. The first one is actually for both `Frank Witter, Member-Management Board & Finance and Controlling and `Matthias Müller, Chairman of the Board of Management. It's
related to the free cash generation. You did an underlying €10 billion free cash generation in 2017
adjusted for the diesel outflows. Your 2020 guidance is also €10 billion at least. Your CapEx and
R&D ratio guidance for 2020, you said you firmly stand behind that 6% target, which implies a
further reduction. And we have to expect about 20% revenue growth between now and 2020.
Isn't it time to revisit that €10 billion free cash flow forecast or what are we not seeing – what am I
not seeing that would be such a drag to free cash generation if you meet the other KPIs?
My second question, Frank, I think you said before that the first I.D. model in its first full production
year should be an EBIT breakeven car. As we're getting closer to that launch, it's just one-and-a-
half or two years away from now, would you still make that statement? Have you firmed up things
to say that with a high degree of confidence?
And my last question is relating to the battery contracts you have already signed so far. Are you
actually assuming the raw material price risk for those batteries? Meaning, cobalt prices, nickel,
manganese, is that your risk or is it the battery supplier taking that risk? Thank you.
A - `Matthias Müller, Chairman of the Board of Management
Patrick, first of all, thanks so much for the compliment. We will give it to our employees. Thanks.
A - `Frank Witter, Member-Management Board & Finance and Controlling `
Okay. Yeah, free cash flow , the guidance for 2020 is €10 billion or greater. So, from today's
perspective, in all fairness, there's nothing to be added. That leaves room. And I think at least as I
have been – as long as I have been working for Volkswagen and I started late 1992, I don't think
we ever gave such a concrete guidance on something you deem to be increasing to – you seem
to give even more attention to than ever. So, no, nothing to be added from today's perspective.
All electric cars, and this is what we said of those for – based on MEB and the new platforms for
full-electric vehicles, they are requested to have a positive contribution, and nothing has changed.
Batteries, we certainly have firm contracts for the first cars to come, including, obviously, the Audi
e-tron later this year, and for Porsche, and also the first couple of cars on the MEB. But certainly,
those contracts cover the first wave of those full-electric vehicles. And there is volatility in the
prices as it pertain to us directly or indirectly to the suppliers. So, it is certainly something which is
not carved in stone, but this is typical to all the other raw materials, which are relevant for our
products. So that's pretty much the picture on the batteries.
A - `Matthias Müller, Chairman of the Board of Management
Yeah.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG `
Can I just ask a little follow-up – sorry, please?A - `Matthias Müller, Chairman of the Board of Management
If I can add what Frank said, we tried to have this, of course, long-term contract. And for the first
wave, we have a solid position, but at the end of the day, we will look whether we get new
technologies where we need less of raw material, for example, cobalt. On the other hand, we
have to take care that [Foreign Language] (54:32-54:38) a fraction of these raw materials – thank
you so much – could be more efficient as it is today.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG `
Can I just ask a little follow-up on the procurement strategy because you have been in the market
trying to source some of the raw materials directly. Based on what you just said with all the
uncertainties about the mix of the different elements in the battery cell, do you still think it makes
sense to source the raw material directly, or are you shifting the strategy towards just having the
battery contract and then it's basically the job of the cell supplier to procure the raw materials?
A - `Matthias Müller, Chairman of the Board of Management
From my point of view, it's better to give this responsibility to the Tier 1s, which can do it better.
As you know, we have just started our Center of Excellence to get better knowledge about cell
production and so on in Salzgitter. And I suppose we need some time to have knowledge which is
comparable to, let me say, Samsung, LG, or CATL As Frank mentioned before, in the first wave,
and this will be for three to five years, we are in a good position and we are confident with our
contracts.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG `
Okay, thank you very much.
A - `Oliver Larkin, Group Head-Investor Relations `
Thanks, Matthias. Thank you, Patrick. Let's move on, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Daniel Schwarz, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. from Credit Suisse.
Q - `Daniel Schwarz, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Yes, thank you very much. I have one follow-up question on WLTP. Is it possible to quantify the
working capital effects for the first half that you have baked into your guidance? And do you think
if the whole industry is building up inventories in the first half, could that result in a very
challenging pricing environment in the second half?
And the other question would be on the dividend. The payout ratio declined for 2017. Do you
expect this to go up from now or only when all deal payments are made; i.e., the 30% target, is it
more hockey stick-like? Thank you.
A - `Oliver Larkin, Group Head-Investor Relations `
Okay. I think we start that with you, Fred, on pricing, if that's okay, and we'll come back to Frank on
dividend discussion.
A - `Fred Kappler, Head of Group SalesOkay. I think the WLTP, I think you asked about the working capital effect in inventories. I think it
would be irresponsible to really give you a number since our internal calculations are still floating
around. I mean, we, obviously, have work forces on a group level and on brand level to optimize
the situation and to minimize any potential risk out there. And I think we make progress and
sometimes we have setbacks, so therefore I think it would be inappropriate other than confirming
that it is a challenge, but our job is to minimize related risk.
Dividend payout ratio, I think 17% or 19% depends how you look at it. I would exclude the one-off
€1 billion effect and argue with the 19%, which is at the end of the day pretty much doubling the
amount being paid out to the shareholders. Ad we continue to confirm as we did this morning
that we have a strategic target of 30% payout ratio, which we confirm. And at previous occasions,
I also laid out that this is ideally to be achieved within the five-year time horizon of our current
planning round. And after being pressured, I also confirm that this is not necessarily meant to be
at the fifth year, hopefully earlier, but no more guidance can be given at this point of time. The
strategic target is confirmed.
A - `Frank Witter, Member-Management Board & Finance and Controlling `
So there was a question regarding possible pricing effects because of the changeover to WLTP.
First of all, definitely a logistics challenge we do have. We are talking of volume in the European
markets for us of 4 million cars. And actually, of course, we have to sell out the complete pipeline
of any set vehicles, and we have to fill the pattern then for September onwards with WLTPs. Yes,
it's a logistical challenge for us. We are well prepared for that. We organized that, we planned for
that. We do not see considerable pricing effects with the changeover to WLTP because it's a
process where all the industry is going through. So, all the competitors' situation is the same. We
have organized that and we think we will manage that. At the end, it will be a successful
changeover.
Q – [070TLH-E `Daniel Schwarz, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd.]>: Okay, thank you.
A - `Oliver Larkin, Group Head-Investor Relations `
Okay, thank you, Fred. Let's move on to the next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from Harald Hendrikse from Morgan Stanley.
Q - `Harald C. Hendrikse, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Good afternoon, guys, two quick questions for me, if you don't mind. One, on the content
question, can you just talk a little bit more? You've added now SCR technologies to make sure
that all your vehicles meet the Euro 6d under WLTP. Can you talk a little bit more about those
extra costs and what impact that's having in 2018? I suspect that might be a little bit of a part of
the EBIT margin question that I think a lot of us have.
And then secondly, diesel residuals, sorry, but it's my favorite subject. Can you talk a little bit
more in total about all the movements we're seeing in diesel? How much residuals have you
charged in the Financial Services side, how much you've taken against the provisions in the
Automotive business? And maybe whilst we're on the provision subject, could you give us a little
bit better breakdown of exactly what those provisions have been spent on? You've got some
very, very big numbers this year. Can you give us a better breakdown of exactly what those
buckets are, if you don't mind? Thank you.A - `Matthias Müller, Chairman of the Board of Management
Hi, Harald.
Q - `Harald C. Hendrikse, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Hi there.
A - `Frank Witter, Member-Management Board & Finance and Controlling `
Let's start with the residual value question which you raised. I think first of all, we need to look at it
if we take all Europe. The development is not identical in all the different markets. For example,
the share of diesel cars in the new car portfolio in Italy actually has increased, while in most other
markets, the share has decreased.
So if you look at the portfolio for the Financial Services unit, we have a total of roundabout 2.6
million cars with direct residual value exposure, of which roundabout 1 million relates to diesel.
The exposure is closely monitored. And since we manage the entire portfolio of cars, this direct
residual value exposure, we have no concerns from everything what we know today that those
reserves are well in excess of the potential risk out there.
And I would like to continue to stress the point, there are plus and minuses since gasoline-related
cars are picking up. And we still think that the driving ban discussion particular if the entire
community is able to reduce that risk. And therefore, the headaches for the customers is also
bringing things more back to normal even though we certainly would see a little accelerated
trend out of diesel over the next 10 years, even though we also confirm that diesel will be
important for the future.
All those costs, you are referring to SCR and other elements are already taken for the Euro 6
vehicles and that change to Euro 6 already happened in 2015. So I don't think that there's
anything extraordinary you need to be worried about.
A - `Matthias Müller, Chairman of the Board of Management
If can add the last word of Frank, as far as I remember, the huge debt (1:03:33) was in 2015
coming from EU5. And as far as I remember, it was a four-digit amount, while the solutions of
Euro 6 from 6c to 6d, it may be only software.
Q - `Harald C. Hendrikse, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Okay, perfect. Thank you very much. And is it possible to give us any more breakdown on the –
sort of big bucket breakdown on the total provision spent to give us an idea exactly what it's
been spent on and exactly where the cash is going out the door?
A - `Oliver Larkin, Group Head-Investor Relations `
Harald, we have an analysis which we've posted, a detailed analysis on our website. We can share
that directly with you. We take that offline. And if anybody else has any questions, please e-mail
us and we can go through that. There's quite a decent analysis in the back of the Annual Report in
the notes. I guess you're still struggling through the 400, 500 pages to get there...
Q - `Harald C. Hendrikse, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Yeah.A - `Oliver Larkin, Group Head-Investor Relations `
...but we can certainly give you some direction after.
Q - `Harald C. Hendrikse, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Okay. Thanks, Oliver.
A - `Oliver Larkin, Group Head-Investor Relations `
Thanks, Harald. And, operator, let's take the next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from Philippe Houchois from Jefferies.
Q - `Philippe Jean Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd. `
Yes. Good afternoon. Thank you. My question was, I think, Frank, you mentioned on the press call
this morning that we might be – you might have to recapitalize the Financial Services more, having
done €1 billion earlier in 2017. I think you had indicated you are reorganizing the Financial Services
to make them self-funded. So, if you can explain that a bit more and why you would need to
recapitalize Financial Services further in 2018 or 2019?
The second question is going back on the WLTP. You're going through the process of getting
your cars re-homologated. Can you give us an idea of what kind of a step up in the CO2 output
of cars you are getting on the WLTP versus NEDC? And whether that gap, let's say, 10% or 15% or
20% that will carry through 2021, so that we know by how much you would – you may have to
rebase your compliance calculations in the next phase post-2021, if that makes sense? Thank you.
A - `Frank Witter, Member-Management Board & Finance and Controlling `
Yeah. Hi, Philippe. Now, let me first – and I'm very, very happy that you raised the issue on
Financial Services since there might have been a misunderstanding.
Q - `Philippe Jean Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd. `
Okay.
A - `Frank Witter, Member-Management Board & Finance and Controlling `
We obviously had the €1 billion capital increase in 2017 that already happened in the first quarter.
The structural change is actually meant to optimize and reduce future capital needs, which
Automotive would have to pay into Financial Services. So, going forward, we definitely,
significantly, through the structural change, reduced our need for more equity from Automotive.
And for the time being, there is nothing planned on top of the €1 billion you have been seeing.
So, the structural change is definitely favorable in terms of Automotive's net liquidity.
I think Fred is talking about the CO2 effect. But let me also come back quickly to the WLTP
because, obviously, we achieved what we wanted to achieve to put your attention towards to it. It
is something, which doesn't apply only to us. It applies to the entire industry. And you know us
from the first Capital Markets Day that we have been very straight and transparent regarding
what the industry is up and against. Talk about the CO2 compliance challenges, the challenge ofelectrification, and, I think, most of you will very well remember our discussions at the Capital
Markets Day and thereafter.
And I think our objective always has been to be upright and transparent. And the way you should
look at WLTP, we are managing as hard as we get – as we can to reduce any negative implication.
We have been very transparent and want to be transparent, but everybody else is certainly also
dealing with the same challenge in the industry. And therefore, I think, it's important that we pay
attention to it that we are shedding light on it. But on the other hand, we certainly, are no
different than anybody else. And I think we have also quite a bit of experience, and we have a
great portfolio, and also a better positioned portfolio in terms of segment penetration. And
therefore, it is certainly a challenge, but hopefully, we are not putting it out of perspective
because it is something, which doesn't belongs to Volkswagen only.
Q - `Philippe Jean Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd. `
Yeah. Understood.
A - `Matthias Müller, Chairman of the Board of Management
Another answer on your question to WLTP, coming from NEDC calculation, transforming to WLTP,
as far as (1:08:34), we have around 3 gram, which is founded by the system as it is. So we have to
work very hard because the transformation is a very complex algorithm, which I cannot explain ad
hoc, but we can give you, let me say, a transformation plan, which explains it in total.
Q - `Philippe Jean Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd. `
Okay. And if I can go back briefly on the Financial Services side, is it too much to hope that you
might be able to release capital from the FinCo into the group, or is that too much to hope for?
A - `Frank Witter, Member-Management Board & Finance and Controlling `
I think from today's perspective, I think I wouldn't go that far. No. You know that we – obviously,
Financial Services is a core pillar, and with the expected growth on the Automotive side, you also
should expect future growth on the Financial Services side but in a capped – in an optimized
structure as it pertains to the capital needs. And this is the way I would look at it. I wouldn't go
overboard in terms of expecting capital reductions at this point of time because Financial Services
will grow with Automotive, and their job is to, obviously, supplement the offering on the
Automotive side from our various brands.
Q - `Philippe Jean Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd. `
Yeah. Fair enough. Thank you very much.
A - `Oliver Larkin, Group Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Philippe. And, operator, let's take the last question please.
Operator
Our last question comes from `Christian Ludwig, Analyst, Bankhaus Lampe KG from Bankhaus Lampe.
Q - `Christian Ludwig, Analyst, Bankhaus Lampe KG `
Yes. Good afternoon, to quick questions in the end for me. Mr. Müller, you presented this morninggive a breakdown for 2018, which is putting together a base of around €26.4 billion. How does
that combined with your CapEx guidance going to be below 7% again for this year as `Frank Witter, Member-Management Board & Finance and Controlling
said. What am I missing here? That will be question number one.
And the question number two, the IFRS 16 coming up, you said in your report that it's going to
support EBIT. Could you give us an indication how much that positive EBIT effect is going to be in
2018? Thank you.
A - `Oliver Larkin, Group Head-Investor Relations `
Sorry. We didn't quite catch that second part of your question. Could you repeat, please?
Q - `Christian Ludwig, Analyst, Bankhaus Lampe KG `
That was IFRS 16, the change in leasing accounting. In your notes, you stated that it's going to
support EBIT and impact financial results. Just want to get an idea how much EBIT effect that's
going to have.
A - `Oliver Larkin, Group Head-Investor Relations `
Okay. Well, let's – we'll kick off with the CapEx question and we'll come on with the IFRS in a
second.
A - `Frank Witter, Member-Management Board & Finance and Controlling `
Okay. Yeah. Let's start with respect to the CapEx and R&D. When we talked about PR 66, solely,
CapEx and R&D for e-mobility, autonomous driving and new mobility services and digitalization,
this is roundabout the €34 billion up to the end of 2022. For 2018 only, CapEx and R&D for
conventional vehicles and drivetrain portfolios, this is the number which relates to the – this is the
content which relates to the roundabout €20 billion. And then in the next five years, there is a
total of those referred to €90 billion.
Q - `Christian Ludwig, Analyst, Bankhaus Lampe KG `
Okay. So, there's CapEx and R&D, not only CapEx. Okay. Understood.
A - `Frank Witter, Member-Management Board & Finance and Controlling `
That's correct. IFRS 16 regulates the accounting of all leases, which basically is the reality is that
also the lessee has to account for it. We would see a capitalization of the usage rights of the
leased property and on the other hand the recognition of the corresponding financial liabilities.
In order to give you a flavor, we're certainly still calculating the numbers. In terms of interest on
lease payments, we probably talk a low-three-digit figure and this is only effective from 2019
onwards.
A - `Oliver Larkin, Group Head-Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you, Frank. And if we want to dive into IFRS, the team are more than happy to take
those questions from the guys as well. So, it's down to me to thank the participants, Matthias,
Frank and Fred for joining the call today. Thank you for joining on the webcast. It was a different
format than before. We would like to and we'll take your feedback afterwards. But, with that, it's
goodbye from Berlin. Thank you very much.Operator
This concludes today's call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.