Y 2018 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen I would like to welcome you here to Wolfsburg to the Volkswagen Annual
Media Conference 2019. In fact nearly the complete Board of Management in attention I would
like to apologize for Bruno (inaudible) because he's taking part in an all-hands meeting at
Hannover with a Volkswagen commercial vehicles. Unfortunately, we were unable to organize
things differently so one member of the Board of Management, a new member of the board of
management. Mr.Kilian is not here but I would like to welcome you to the members of the Board
of Management, are member responsible for integrity employees here and I would like to
welcome `Oliver Blume, Brand Group Sport & Luxury, Chairman of the Board of Management and CEO of Porsche and
responsible for sports and luxury on the group board and Andreas Renschler then responsible for
trucks and buses. Scott also new to the Board of Volkswagen AG the CEO of the Audi AG and
responsible for premium on the Central Board of Management and Stefan Sommer also a new
member of the group board is responsible for components and procurement then `Frank Witter, Member of the Board of Management
you all know him, the CFO of Volkswagen AG and the CEO of the company `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer.
First, we will hear a series of presentations and then there will be opportunity for any questions
that you may want to ask. So let me know hand over the floor to our CEO to `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer.
`Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
Ladies and gentlemen. The Cars are gone can we have the Cars again. Ladies and gentlemen,
welcome to our annual media conference here in Wolfsburg. It's great, we have the opportunity
today to talk about our business results from the past year, and I think is also important to look
ahead to what the future holds. The transformation of our industries, picking up pace and we are
striving to provide individual mobility for the years to come and also for millions of people across
the entire globe. And the challenge is to ensure that this mobility is even safer, cleaner , fully
connected and above all carbon neutral.
We are seizing this opportunity for change and we aim to take a leading role in the new world of
mobility as well. This is also why, we three years ago started a process to realign our group and
we're now completing the first stage of our journey. We are aligning Volkswagen with e-mobility
like no other company in our industry. And to a large extent that is also reflected in our planning.
We're also starting to evolve from being a pure car maker to being a software driven company.
You don't have to showed a lease investments that are required for this, we are now boostingour efficiency in manufacturing and sales and an administration were becoming more agile and
more innovative but still we are aware that we have to become even faster. It's our new
competitors that are setting the pace. Ladies and gentlemen, Volkswagen will change
fundamentally. I think this is something that has become clear over the last weeks and months
and some of you may still be rubbing your rise in amazement. But there's no question this
supertanker is picking up speed. We're addressing the key trends of the future, particularly in
connection also with climate action, we are taking on this leadership responsibility with our global
footprint with our strong brands and operative strength. Look back at that last fiscal year will
underline the truth of my statement.
2018 was a successful year for the group, we have performed well despite the strong headwinds
and major challenges. This success is reflected in the 10.8 million vehicles delivered, more than 70
new models launched by our brands were well received by our customers. Particularly, the
numerous new SUVs such as the Volkswagen to a reg [ph] the SKODA (inaudible), the SEAT arona
and the Audi Q8. The trust of our customers is also reflected in our financial figures. Our sales
revenue rose by 2.7% to EUR235.8 billion. Operating profit before special items increase slightly
to EUR17.1 billion. The negative special items were on the same level as the previous year at
EUR3.2 billion. These are mainly attributable to the diesel issues.
Before special items, the Volkswagen Group achieved an operating return on sales of 7.3%. So
this result is that the upper end of our target corridor. More details about our business
performance you will hear shortly from `Frank Witter, Member of the Board of Management. (inaudible) results show we are one of the
few carmaker's that was able to meet its annual forecast in the operating business side. Our
operating business is robust. It is resilient even in times of great uncertainty. That examples of this
uncertainty include the ongoing trade dispute between the US And China, they're still unresolved
to Brexit situation, exchange rate fluctuations and signs of an economic downturn in many regions
of the world.
The greatest challenge for us in 2018 was the change over to the new WLTP base type approval
process for our vehicle fleet. In Europe, this new test procedure led to a downturn in sales and
the loss of market share particularly in the second half of the year.
The warm delays in delivering numerous vehicles to our customers. Our complex portfolio also
meant that we were more seriously affected than our competitors and not only that, but our own
preparations could also have been better. Audi was particularly hard hit. It will probably be the
end of the first quarter before all variants are available again. And we had to fight produce every
single car here at Volkswagen brand to right up to the very end of December.
I have great respect for the team effort it took to achieve these results and this is particularly true
for our engine developers who had to work more or less around the clock. WLTP will continue to
be a challenge in 2019, there could be some temporary restrictions once again, but these will be
much less extensive than into '18. But we have learned our lessons the VW brand has reduced the
number of its model variants by 25% and by Audi at 30% and that streamlined portfolio that
helps us to improve our productivity, lower the manufacturing costs and reduce fixed costs at the
same time. We have of course, increased our test bench capacities and we have built up
personnel to ease those bottlenecks.
In Europe, we delivered a total of 4.4 million vehicles, which is 1.2% more than in the previous year.
The overall market in China after a positive start of the year has shrunk sharply from last June. But
for the first time in more than two decades there was largest single market reported in our
negative growth rates. But still we have achieved a new delivery record in this challenging
environment, and we have grown our share of the market to 18.5%.Additional potential in the market that continues to decline will come from a new JETTA branded
look directly target the rapidly emerging young middle class with its high quality with a safety
emotionality and attractive pricing. China is now setting productivity and quality standards, for the
entire group it is setting the pace with regard to innovation as well for e-mobility for digital and
new mobility concepts.
Volkswagen's future hinges on China. China is were up single most important market and will
remain so, this is also reason for strengthening its board level representation. Stephan
Wollenstein, CEO of the Volkswagen brand in China is now also a member of the Brand Board of
management.
In North America unit sales dropped by 2% this was due to exiting unprofitable market segments
in Mexico. In the US., we were able to increase deliveries have about 2.1%. We are gradually
making progress, thanks to new models such as the five seater Atlas SUV
The turnaround it is scheduled for 2020 that has not changed. We are expanding our plant in
Chattanooga. So, that it can produce vehicles based on our of MEB of Modular Electric Drive
toolkit. The EUR700 million investment represents a clear commitment to the US market. This
transition to e-mobility also gives us the opportunity to significantly expand market share and
then also reposition the brand in the United States.
There have now also been positive developments in South America as well with the rice in unit
sales of more than 13%, we are now back on track after some dramatic restructuring in Brazil. The
attractive new products, that are superior technologically such as the Polo or the Virtus that have
brought us this positive momentum and we are intending to move back into the black this year,
with new models such as the T-cross which will be coming to the showrooms in just the next few
days.
The ongoing economic crisis in Argentina has led to losses, but here too, we have initiated
countermeasures. And now working on new locally produced vehicles tailored to the market
needs. Ladies and gentlemen, the success of the Volkswagen group is a global achievement. It is
made possible by the efforts of our 12 group brands, on all of them are striving tirelessly to
enhance their future viability and performance and we have improved in almost all brands and
regions in the past year. And I would like to express my sincere thanks for that car teams.
I call Volkswagen brand has achieved new record figures in unit sales and sales revenue and then
the task today is to steer the changeover to e-mobility with the MEB, while improving the cost
effectiveness of the MQB at the same time. So progress has already been made in this regard,
above all in containing our fixed costs. The brand has brought its 6% target for return on sales
forward to 2022. Notwithstanding all the high course that still are required for necessary future
investments. But there's still quite a backlog and administration of production and development ,
we were telling you, how Volkswagen is switching to be leaner, more efficient have a more digital
way of working in the future tomorrow at the brand's press conference. SKODA is continuing its
excellent development. The brand grew once again in 2018. The plants are operating at more
than 120% of capacity now, and this is why we are planning to build an additional multi-brand plant
in Eastern Europe and we're currently looking at sites in four different countries in that area. Due
an increasing extents SKODA is also taking over tasks for the entire group. SKODA's leading
group activities in India and Russia or in the future were also leading the production of the Passat
family at the plant in (inaudible) in the Czech republic. But still SKODA needs to work on its return
on sales which has deep recently. SEAT is also rapidly picking up speed with a convincing annular
result. The brand was able to increased it's like vehicle deliveries by 10.5% to 518,000 vehicles
making Europe's -- making SEAT, Europe's fastest growing brand is also the brand that attractsthe youngest customers as well within our group. SEAT has also taken on the responsibility to
generate a return on investment at group level. Another return in 2018 was already 12.5 not far off
the group target, and also the return on investment incidentally will in the future, be our most
important performance indicator in the future, even more important than return on sales. Now
also Volkswagen commercial vehicles on the right track. The brand has set itself what are perhaps
the most challenging goals and projects within this group. The conversion of the handover plant
to an electric production location is an important strategic decision. And also the recently agreed
collaboration with Ford opens up new horizons and growth opportunities with regard to mid-size
pickups. For examples, Volkswagen and Ford, will be using a joint platform for the successor to
the Amarok, and we will be making a decision on the production location of that product soon.
And then we also consolidating the group's activities in new mobility services such as MOIA with
VW commercial vehicles and this is also true for the development of fully automated vehicles also
refer to as robotaxis. For Audi 2018 was an extremely challenging year. I've briefly touched on the
impact of WLTP That brand was especially hard hit as a result of its complex drive train portfolio
and the ongoing diesel retrofits and this was also compounded by a change in leadership. But
looking forward, we see excellent opportunities for regaining the initiative. It's worth bearing in
mind that an operating profit of EUR4.7 billion and return on sales of 8% still represent very
respectable annual figures for Audi. The Audi team is powerful, product pipeline is nicely filled,
the new management team headed by Bram Schot will refine and implement Audi's
transformation plan two. The recently presented electric SUV, the Audi e-tron is truly an important
milestone in the brand's electric push, and it's the first genuine alternative to Tesla in the
premium segment. Up to January this year, 20,000 reservations had already been received. The
first dealership presentation of that vehicle was so successful that all the test drives slots were
booked within the first 16 minutes.
Colleagues at Porsche, once again enjoy the record year with regard to unit sales, sales revenue
and earnings the eighth generation of the 911 will be the best of all time. And it has been critically
acclaimed. Preparations now for the first all-electric push also underway in Zuffenhausen. The
Taycan will be the sportiest electric car on the market opening up great potential here again
20,000 prospective buyers have already expressed their serious interest in that vehicle.
For Porsche they have most challenging task is now to continuing to achieve a more than 15%
return on sales, despite their transformation to e-mobility. Our Truck and bus business has also
been positively developing sales revenue across all brands rose by 6% to EUR25.9 billion.
Adjusted operating profit increased by about 13% of approximately EUR1.7 billion.
The new independent entity trait on has the potential to become a global champion. And it's
currently making preparations for the initial public offering a date for this IPO will be agreed in the
foreseeable future. For the conditions on the money markets and capital markets have to be
right. So we're weighing things up, and assessing the situation of the next few days.
Ladies and gentlemen, alongside the successes achieved in our operating business, 2018 was
also marked by important strategic decisions. In April, the group was given a new leaner
management structure, this also means that we spread responsibilities across more shoulders
than before decisions, and are made at the lowest responsible level as close to the actual
operations as possible.
The motto is that lean group should drive strong brands. So that is the principle so that guides
the work of the brand groups in the future. In addition to this, there are individual brands that are
resuming responsibility for specific regions. So, what that means is that the group is taking care of
the major synergies the MEB, the MQB, the PPE modular tool kits the product portfolio are
planned assignment and purchasing.But we're also breathing life into this new structure on an HR level. So nearly 40 top positions at
group and brand level have been reallocated in the past. For example, we now have Gunnar
Kilian, on the Board of Management as our HR Officer, and Stefan Sommer for Components and
Procurement, Abraham Schot is now the Audi's CEO, and Ralf Brandstatter, the COO of the VW
brand.
Now moving forward we intend to full more top management and board positions with
candidates already working within our group of and with this in mind. We have introduced a new
executive level training program in which almost 400 managers from across the entire group will
be participating. We also revising the management remuneration system to bonus will be
oriented to Group earnings.
The rise in share price will become an important parameter. So the focus is now on group targets
and that is also done both of view to fostering collaboration. Our managers would also play a key
role in the process of realigning a company culture that is by the progress that has already been
made much work still remains to be done on this topic and work that goes far beyond the diesel
crisis.
In the meantime 99% of the effective diesel vehicles in Germany have been fixed. Nevertheless,
what we need now is to install a culture in which integrity and an open approach to dealing with
mistakes and problems are a matter of course, throughout the entire group. Our independent
compliance monitor Larry Thompson and his team are helping us with these endeavors. And I
would like to take the opportunity to express my gratitude here, working together with the
compliance monitor. We intend to make Volkswagen a better company, and all in all we're making
good progress and we remain on schedule. We've already received now the monitors second
report and we are implementing the recommendation it contains.
Now further key levers for our future viability will be alliances with third parties. In one such
alliance, we're working with Ford to develop vans and mid-size pickups. And discussions about
further possible collaborations in the areas of e-mobility and autonomous driving, we're already
at an advanced stage. Now, we have also entered into a partnership with Microsoft to develop
the Volkswagen automotive cloud.
The restructuring of our Group components is the further key pillar of our strategy. As of January
2019, Volkswagen Group components is working as an independent business unit within the
group. So from scratch we have created one of the world's largest suppliers, with a business
volume of some EUR35 billion and over 80,000 employees. And then this unit we also have
consolidated all activities related to batteries for electric vehicles.
We're now focusing on particularly the battery value chain for electric vehicles from commodities
and cell production all the way to the use in vehicles in a second stationary life cycle. And then
finally also, all the way to raw material recycling. That component will be optimizing all of this,
much of it using its own resources. The MEB components, such as battery cells, electric motors,
power electronics or drive train units, will also in the future be available to third parties.
And last but not least, and our most recent planning session we also have created other
important foundations. We have reorganized the way our plants are utilized to support our
electric push. We want to make more factories sites producing solely electric vehicles. We also
made the decision to reduce the size of the workforce at a German site, in a socially acceptable
manner, and you will be hearing more about our electric campaign shortly. But first `Frank Witter, Member of the Board of Management,
will now give you more details about our business performance into '18. Frank?Thank you very much, Herbert. Good morning to you ladies and gentlemen. Let me first of all
apologize, for not attending last night's meeting. Because I had to look after my own voice and
the effects that seem to be coming so, if I'm clearing my throat every now and then this doesn't
indicate anything this is just really due to the cold I have. I'd like to make the statements, I'm
making as directly as possible that's why I'm pointing this out.
We've already made the numbers available by the end of February, and now we have the annual
report, and I'm happy to report the financial figures in detail to you today. I think, we can say in
2018 the Volkswagen group was in a very difficult environment and maintained its position. A very
difficult environment this includes many different issues. The trade political tensions we
experienced. The Brexit issue and the result we may get from this tonight and WLTP is a keyword
everybody knows by now but it's also about the effects of transformation in all of our industry.
So we're very satisfied to say that the sales revenues of the group at EUR235.8 billion did in fact
increased 2.7% over the previous year. Meeting a new record level then the question is always
exciting of what were the major drivers and what was certainly positive and you know this from
the nine months figures burden, volume effects and the mix effects. But also the business growth
for Volkswagen financial services and for commercial vehicles.
What had a very negative impact with exchange rates all in all this was 4.8 billion. And without
hedging in fact this number would have even be much higher. The currency that gave rise to
particular concern with in South America, with the Argentinian peso, the Brazilian real but also
detect clearer right in front of our own country, but the US dollar also had impact.
So, the operating result before special items is at a good level at 17.1 billion, but it's also part of
our annual financial statement that we didn't manage without negative special items at once.
Once again, 3.2 billion so this is the same level as in the prior year, this is exclusively due to the
diesel issue once again this includes things like the fines imposed by the branch bike [ph],
Prosecutor's Office amounting to 1 billion or from the Munich Prosecutor's Office amounting to
800 million, but there were also increased legal risks and costs of defense and also cost for
technical measures to be taken. So the operating region before special items was at the same
level as in the previous year at 7.3%, and we are glad that we are in the same corridor as
indicated in our guidance, which was 6.5% to 7.5%. In fact, we even ended up in the upper part of
this range. So, I think we can claim that we delivered. It's also exciting to look at the operating
earnings 17% to 17.1%, you might say it's been a long year and not a lot has happened, but this is
not the case.
Let me begin with the Passenger Cars division here, the main driver is volume and the mix of the
vehicles delivered and also the pricing very important at 1.4 billion. This was an important
contribution but also at the cost of products we made progress amounting to 300 million
exchange rates, this doesn't just play a role for sales revenue, but also for the operating results
at 300 million it was a charge, and an increase in fixed costs this was 1.6 billion all-in-all and this is
mainly due to the depreciations on the high capital expenditure of the previous years. But it's also
due to the cost of our research and development, which we're spending today for new things like
new models, electrification and also CO2 improvements on internal combustion engines.
It's also important to point out that IFRS 9 has been changed. So as of 2018 valuation effects on
derivatives and the costs of hedging are no longer reflected in the financial result but in the
operating result, all in all this amounted to EUR900 million as charge on the operating results in
2018. Stepping out into the commercial vehicles business, an improvement of 100 million and the
volume development was positive especially in the European and Brazilian markets. Which are so
important to recover is quite clear and we've also made some progress on the volume mix andthe exchange rates, across all the markets and total we're positive cost increases the absorb
successfully.
In the power engineering business, we're pretty much at the same level. In the operating loss, as
in the previous year, we had some positive effects, but they were upset by deterioration in the
mix. In the financial services division, the operating profit is stable, especially the positive growth
of the business is to be mentioned as a positive thing, but also the work done and cost still be
must say that despite a continuing demanding environment the result of the group at 17.5 billion,
is at the same high level as in the previous year. Let me now give you some overview -- an
overview of the results of some individual markets apart from this, I would like to refer to the
special events organized by my colleagues on their brand.
2018 is characterized by two pretty different half years, the first six months in terms of volumes
and sales and return we're extraordinarily good. As expected the second half of the year was
clearly more difficult. First the overall market development slowed down somewhat, but it was
also the new WLTP test procedure which also left its traces on our brands and especially on
Volkswagen Passenger Cars and Audi and SKODA and also on some other brands. We are able
to overcompensate this to some extent but it was the major charge on all our Passenger Car
brands.
Let's look at Volkswagen Passenger Cars. The operating profit before special items is EUR3.2
billion. This is a return of 3.8%. This is approximately the same as in the previous year. Where we
were at 4.2 billion, the good return it's due to the further rollout of SUVs were also able to
increase sales volumes and we made good progress on cost, but it was a difficulty year so the
cost of sales, especially the environmental bonus increased clearly and gross the negative
exchange rate effects, which left their traces. The investments in the future as our important,
these were also important to the Volkswagen Passenger Cars brand, and it was also WLTP which
was important, and there was some special items from the diesel issue this applies to
Volkswagen Passenger Cars and Audi for Volkswagen Passenger Cars. It was 1.9 billion after the
2.8 billion of the previous year of 2017.
Concern to Audi, the operating profit before special items was 4.7 billion. All in all this is about 7%
below the previous year, but was positive was improvements in the mix positive exchange rates
and product cost optimization. But there was lower sales volume. And what's particularly harmful
here is the European development higher cost of sales and especially WLTP effects specially
bearing in mind how important the fleet businesses to our colleagues at income start. But we also
have to be aware of the increased depreciation on the investment of the previous years , the
operating profit before special items was reduced from 8.5% to 7.9%, it slightly below a corridor
of 8% to 10%.
Audi had 1.1 billion of a special items all of this reducing from the -- resulting from the diesel issue.
Then SKODA Herbert is mentioned it 1.4 billion operating profit. 14.6% of return, this is something
that certainly presentable, but it's worse than in the year before. It was due to exchange rate
effects. But also to the sorry topic of WLTP and it was also due to investments in new products.
So growing sales and the improved price positioning was not enough in order to maintain the
previous year's levels. What we didn't enjoy so much was the results of the Bentley Brand last
year. All in all, it was a negative 288 million. This is a clear deterioration compared to the 55
million profit of the previous year. So this was quite clearly the result of the continental GTD
volume car of the Bentley Brand which was clearly delayed and its launched and they were
exchange rate effects which had a negative effect and it's also part of the history of 2018, that we
had of one of item of EUR68 million, as a one off from a change in the local pension funds.And then last but not least, it's clearly more fun to talk about Porsche. The operating income once
again improved by 2.7% to 4.1 billion over 2018. This didn't look at it like this at all of that, we
would be able to absorb WLTP and other issues so well. In fact we were able to deliver even
more vehicles and to improve the mix sensationally as was enough for being able to spend on
future issues and in fact to overcompensate this, and to achieve a return of 17.4% this is beyond
our strategic guidance and just slightly below the previous year.
Let's then turn to China, would be happy if we could include this number in our operating income,
but this is reflected at equity in our financial result. But nevertheless China remains an extremely
important market to us. Deliveries and this in a market which as of the middle of 2018
deteriorated we were able to increase by 0.5% to 4.2 million vehicles. The operating income at
4.6 billion was only slightly below the previous year and in fact, this is easily explained by
exchange rate. So basically, we were at the same level as in the very successful 2017 fiscal year,
mix in volume took a positive development, the cost of products has been optimized further. In
fact, this is the challenge and the task everywhere, but the competitive environment in China has
also become extremely demanding. And we also got to feel this and the exchange rate effects,
we're also reason for this. So in this respect this result is important, but it's only reflected in our
financial result.
So let's turn to this now directly. The financial results increased clearly, to 1.7 billion, this is a swing
against the previous year 2017 of 1.8 billion and there are always three major drivers for this three
major chunks. First of all, the result at equity, the major contribution comes from the Chinese joint
ventures SAIC and FA, Volkswagen. They were even slightly better than the previous year we had
a positive one off effects in 2017 of 182 million because, we took in further investors and this lead
to new valuation of shares. If you compensate for this effect the result of equity was very good,
also compared to the previous year.
The interest income, the second important column this improved by 786 million. This mainly due
to lower interest payments and the rest of the financial result is also about 1.2 billion better. This is
mainly due to currency related valuation effects of receivables and payables which had a very
positive development, and also lower spending on the measurement of derivative financial
instruments. But a large portion of this is now reflected in the operating results, as I pointed out,
but we have clearly improved financial result improved by EUR1.8 billion.
Let's now take another quick look at the year with its highlights the operating result in 2018 is that
EUR13.9 billion. So even after the special items mentioned it's at a good level. The financial result
is now at 1.9 billion income before taxes for EUR15.6 billion, it's 2 billion better than the previous
year, and the tax rate that's also worth mentioning, it's now a 22.3%.
Let's not forget that 2017 was distorted and it's resolved probably not just for our group because
of the US tax reform. We had a positive valuation effect of EUR1 billion and this of course, this of
one of item.
So, we're now normalizing again without tax rate profit after tax at 12.2 billion, 700 million above
the prior year. For the fourth quarter for those of you who are interested in detail let me refer you
to our Investor Relations website. `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer mentioned it if apart from cash, there is one
number which is important. It's the return on investment which is worth looking at it's a value
orientated management concept, reflecting the -- replacing the after-tax dividing the result after
tax by the invested capital and this expresses whether we're using our capital well and
responsibly. So we've traditionally -- also proportionately include the results of the Chinese joint
ventures in 2018, and you will not be surprised by this that increased invested capital, we had
higher inventories. But also increases from capital expenditure and capitalize development costs.And they were also special items, which need to be taken into account but we had a return on
investment amounting to 11% which was above minimum expectation of 9%.
But it also is our objective and our target to be above 15% for the group. Cash -- net cash flow
was mentioned, and one important measure of our economic activity and revised success. Net
cash flow is really the surplus from current operations.
Let me take a quick look at the capital expenditure which was above the previous year as
expected. It was EUR13.2 billion or an increase of 4.6%. We mainly spent here, and this is mainly
our models, but it's also the production capacities. Without these investments, we wouldn't be
able to present these great models to the market. `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer mentioned them like the
continental family the Touareg, the T-cross, the Audi e-tron or the taken of Porsche that could
even expand on this is the capital expenditure rate that is what share of our revenue does capital
expenditure amount to it was 6.6% at the same level as the prior years. And it was well within the
corridor we had predicted of 6.5% to 7%. At minus EUR0.3 billion net cash flow is clearly better
than the previous year. But it's also part of the 2018 fiscal year that in the fourth quarter due to
WLTP we were not able to reduce receivables and inventories even more.
If you also add the 5.3 billion paid out on the diesel issue now also activities EUR0.6 billion, the
net cash flow within the automotive business was EUR5.6 billion. What's also important is that for
the transformation of industry, and for the (inaudible) of the operating business you need
sufficient net liquidity. And this brings me to the automotive business entities mainly influenced by
net cash flow, which was at minus EUR0.3 billion as I pointed out, the operating business and the
inflow of dividends from China. This is about EUR3 billion unfortunately, this was upset by the
diesel payouts and the WLTP effects. Which resulted to an increase in inventories and receivables.
Further variables that influenced our net liquidity was the issuing of hybrid nodes amounting to
2.75 billion whereas the redemption of another node was 1.25 billion. So, the positive impact was
1.5 billion. A MAN has e-shares some compensation payments had to be made. And this led to a
negative 2.1 billion, as of the 31 of December. All as a consequence of the avoid procedure. Also,
the payout of the dividend needs to be mentioned here and the shareholders of Volkswagen AG
received 2 billion, 1 billion more than in the previous year.
So, all in all there's still a very sound number of 19.4 billion is the net liquidity of the automotive.
After the payout is before the payout, the result of this shareholders was EUR11.8 billion, 600
million more than in the previous year. This means an undiluted result of EUR23.57 to regular
share and EUR23.63 per preferred share. So the Board of Management and Supervisory Board
proposed a clearly increased dividend 480 per regular share and 486 per preferred share.
This is the payout ratio of 20.4% clearly better than the 17.6% from the previous year adjusted for
the tax effect. And ladies and gentlemen, we've still focus on our strategic target of 30% for the
payout ratio. On May the 14, there will be the annual general meeting in Berlin has announced.
The agenda and all the other associated documents can be found on our Investor Relations
website as of today.
Ladies and gentleman, the numbers of 2018 show that in a challenging environment, we have
achieved a position from which we can now successfully manage change within the Volkswagen
group. 2019, will not be easy though. But we're optimistic and we firmly determined ladies and
gentlemen to achieve the targets we've set. And this brings me to the guidance for 2019 with we
expect that the deliveries will slightly increase the previous year's level. But let me (inaudible) to a
`Frank Witter, Member of the Board of Management. Six months ago, the same thing we wouldn't have said slightly. Of course there have
been slowdowns and various important markets, but still we expect that we will be able to slightlyexceed the previous year. So, that sales revenues will increased by about 5% over the previous
year. And the operating profit and the return is to be 6.5% to 7.5%.
Major challenges are the general economy which had slightly slow down and the intensity of
competition will certainly not decrease. And volatile exchange rate developments are probably a
very realistic assumption. But there are other challenges like WLTP and starts of production.
So, these are major issues we are going to focus on the return on capital, there will certainly be a
result above minimum rate which we expect a net cash flow which is the KPI what certainly
positive net cash flow clearly above the previous year's level. And if then, the payout on diesel
which we will still have in 2019 and 2020 but if you adjust for this our target of at least 9 billion on
net cash flow which can be achieved that. I can assure you that our sound liquidity policy will be
continued without any qualification and I'll be available for any questions that you may have after
the second presentation by `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer, let me know thank you for listening.
`Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you Frank. Market environment remains challenging but still, we are again setting ourselves
very ambitious goals for 2019, as Frankfurt as shown, we want to continue to grow profitably. Now
we achieving this with 90 plus new models, that we are rounding out this year 2019, obviously we
continue to grow the popular SUV segment. The share of the SUV segment in our overall unit
sales has increased by 5% in 2018, and for 2019, we also expect solid growth.
Highlights include the Volkswagen T-cross, the SKODA Scala and the SEAT Tarraco and not to
forget -- we will be presenting the new golf generation at the end of this year. So you see, model
campaign is continuing at full pace throughout this year, but also we want to pick-up speed with
about transforming company, 2019 will be there for a key year for our group wide electric push
with -- the first all-electric vehicles of the new generation going into production, now at Audi, at
Porsche and also at the Volkswagen brand.
Ladies and gentlemen, part of our DNA has been for many years to be able to mobilize people,
to move them in our brands need of wide variety of expectations here. We are determined to
make individual mobility possible for large numbers of people in the future as well. And when it
comes to the volume segment, we want to make this mobility affordable. We also want to give
people the freedom to move around wherever and whenever they want without any restrictions
or city driving balance.
This is why we will now be gradually switching our entire vehicle portfolio to clean mobility. The
Paris climate accord is the yardstick for our actions. Unless we significantly cut carbon emissions
over the coming years, global warming will continue unchecked with devastating consequences.
So therefore, we are totally committed to the target of keeping global warming below 2 degrees
Celsius by 2015.
Now that can be achieved through a considerable reduction in carbon emissions, across all the
sectors of industry and society. Today, as we speak around 14% of global carbon emissions steam
from the transport sector, which also includes not only cars and trucks, but also airplanes and
ships. The Volkswagen AG is Passenger Car brands alone through the user their vehicles are
responsible for 1% of global carbon emissions.
That is 1%, we aim to reduce to 0. That is our goal. I'm not just a contribution to climate action.
This is also why our Board of Management has agreed on a comprehensive de carbonization
program. Objective is to make the entire Volkswagen group carbon neutral by 2050. And thatmodule applies not only to our vehicles but also to our own carbon footprint. So yes, this is
ambitious but we believe, it's doable.
CO2, therefore will become one of the key performance metrics in our vehicle projects. But also
in production and procurement. That 2050 is still some distance away of course and therefore
we're setting ourselves binding entering -- interim objectives before that. So for instance by 2025
we intend to reduce the carbon footprint of our fleet over the entire life cycle about 30%,
compared to 215. The global carbon emissions produced by our plants, we want to reduce by half
compared to 210.
All of that must not be just a VVaG declaration of intent and therefore we're backing up the all
these targets with specific with quantifiable measures. Here are the three principles first of all we
want to make effective and truly sustainable cuts to carbon emissions. Number two, we want to
switch renewable energy sources for power supply, switch to renewable energy sources. And
third, we want to compensate for emissions wherever they cannot be avoided.
When we reduce the carbon footprint of our vehicles, we're already starting with the supply chain.
We aim to make carbon emissions a central aspect of the contracts with our suppliers, and
already work for identifying significant potential especially with regards to batteries for e-cars or
aluminum and steel. But also internally, we are changing we are converting our power station here
at Wolfsburg, switching from coal to natural gas that will cut carbon emissions annually by EUR1.5
million tons from 2023 onwards.
And we also switching to the use of renewable energies that are plants Audi's production
capacities, for instance at the Brussels sides come in at the completely carbon-free, carbon-
neutral production to compensate for unavoidable carbon emissions wherever they crop up
we're planning large-scale investments in climate action projects. For instance for reforestation at
the protection of endangered woodlands. These measures -- these compensation measures will
be paid out for a newly out of a newly created carbon fund with EUR50 million plant as a starting
some.
Now all in all, we're confident to say that this is the most ambitious and comprehensive climate
action program ever undertaken in the automotive sector. Now to reduce the carbon footprint of
our fleet and in complying with strict EU requirements. The electric drive-trains will play of course
a pivotal role. For the foreseeable future, e-mobility will remain the best and most efficient way of
cutting carbon emissions in road traffic.
Based on the mileage of 200,000 kilometers an electric car thrown its life cycle. Uses around
400 watt-hours per kilometer. Including manufacturing So this means, such a vehicle is able to
operate much more economically than any other alternative drives. Using electricity to drive
system is three times as efficient as using synthetic fuels as well as being significant for superior
to the fuel cell by the way. So in our view, there is no alternative to e-mobility over the next few
decades.
Ladies and gentlemen, what we are now starting here is a change of system. We must now focus
all our energies on attaining our goal, the consistent focus is paramount, openness to other
technologies will not help us in our endeavors, it only serves to put off the change in system until
further into the future. So what is important now is that political and social forces must join up to
focus on making the transformation to e-mobility. In order to build up that very important critical
mass and a vital infrastructure that it takes electric vehicles also need the swift energy transition.
Because in order to operate meaningfully, they need coal free, they need carbon free power,that is a must we call an industry on politics and society, to know finally pull out all the stops and
help e-mobility achieve the real breakthrough.
There's also includes a Frank and open debate about the consequences of e-mobility. Is -- the
reality is that building an electric car, involves some 30% less effort or cost then one powered by
an ICE, combustion engine that means we will need to makes job cuts. And achieving this purely
through fluctuation and partial retirement will be difficult, and this makes a good market position
all the more important. So what that means is, the more successful we are, with e-mobility as a
company, the more long-term security there's brings for our jobs.
Ladies and gentlemen. There's no other traditional car manufacturer that is embarking on this
new age with such a massive commitment as Volkswagen . In last November's, planning session
we've presented the most fire-reaching electric campaign of our industry. And now, we've also
adjusting our sales plans accordingly. By 2028, the group will be launching almost 17 new electric
models instead of the previous figure of 50. The Audi e-tron and the Porsche Taycan these are
the two vehicles that are already talked about that shortly after these, we will be launching the ID
The first electric car selling for the price of a comparable golf diesel car. And then this will be
followed among others by the IDCROZZ SEAT el-born, A?KODA Vision E, the ID BUZZ and ID
VIZZION all of these of vehicles of our MEB family. Until 2023, we are going to invest over EUR30
billion to achieve those and we thus further electrify our portfolio in all vehicle segments. But to
make e-mobility affordable for as many people as possible. Also what we need is large-scale
production. We will therefore be using our new electric platforms to build in the next 10 years up
to 22 million vehicles.
By 2030, the electric-powered proportion of our fleet in Europe and China will rise to at least
40%. In order to support this electric campaign, we have selected LG Chem, SKI, CATL and
Samsung as strategy battery cell suppliers. As a key component in any electric car really the
battery is of major strategic importance to us. And that is also why we're now investing in the next
generation of battery cells to make battery technology at permanent key area of expertise at
Volkswagen we have established the Center of Excellence based in Salzgitter. With a view to the
increasing demand, we are also taking our closer look at a possible participation in battery cell
manufacturing facilities in Europe of our own.
This electric push is also changing the face of our manufacturing plants by 2022, we will have set
up 18 group-wide electric production locations on three continents. Eight of these plants will be
manufacturing cars on the basis of the MEB the model electric drive toolkit. Our lead factory for
the MEB will be the plant in Zwickau, while conversion now is in full swing. The first Audi is
scheduled to roll-off the production line, there at Zwickau later this year.
The plants and Emden and Hanover would also be converted for production of electric vehicles
from 2022 onwards. So these three sites, will make up Europe's largest production network for
electric vehicles. Now in China with Anting and Foshan also to MEB plants are currently under
construction. And they will start production only few months after Zwickau.
In terms of North America, Chattanooga will be our side for the production of electric vehicles.
But, the modular electric drive toolkit, it may be for short lies at the hard of our electric campaign.
We aim to make the MEB a new standard for our industry. The MEB has been designed as an all-
electric platform from the very beginning. It makes the optimal use of the latest technologies
possible, in terms of performance, and in terms of space, but also in terms of digital
technologies.The MEB enables driving ranges in excess of 550 kilometers in accordance with WLTP and also
has his earned completely new onboard network. The vs.OS operating system can receive
updates over the air. So that turns the vehicle at a tablet on wheels. The areas of application for
the MEB platform range from small city cars and large (inaudible) cars through to electrically
powered campervans. Can also be used for small series vehicles like the ID Buggy. So, the
advantages is of the more cars that are manufactured using this platform. They also become
cheaper. So that's why we are opening now the MEB to partners. This will result in economies of
scale, it will increase our competitiveness and it really brings e-mobility into the mainstream much
more quickly.
Just last week in Geneva, we have financed our first partnership e.GO, with Professor Schuh, as
CEO will become the first third-party company to use our platform.
The first car to be produced on the MEB platform will be the ID Tomorrow, you'll be hearing more
from the brand Board of Management on this vehicle. So what I'd like to do today is to focus on
one aspect. The ID will be launched as a carbon-neutral footprint vehicle, which makes it an
important part of decarbonization program that I mentioned a moment ago. A carbon footprint
neutral vehicle obviously, needs to encompass the entire vehicle supply chain and this is exactly,
what we're doing with the Audi [ph] . Our suppliers will exclusively use green electricity for the
huge amount of energies that they consumed during battery cell production for our car
production at (inaudible) , we use energy from renewable sources to charge their vehicles, we
offer our customers electricity that has been generated also, in a climate neutral way and in the
future we'll be using recycled battery cells and on your mobile charging stations and those as I
said before, those emissions that we (inaudible) avoid at the moment, while we are offsetting
them by investing in climate action projects.
And as all the same time, we take care of the necessary infrastructure which is -- of course a
critical factor for the durable success of e-mobility. In collaboration with our industry partners in
the (inaudible) joint venture, we'll be installing 400 fast charging stations along Europe's major
roads and highways by 2020. A hundred of those will be located in Germany, which gives you a
charging opportunity every 120 kilometers with 400 or 800 volts fast charging up to 350
kilowatts. We have a new subsidiary Elli that offers volt boxes [ph] for charging at home, also
using power. We are then also setting up a charging point on employee car parks of the
dealerships. The Volkswagen brand alone will be installing around 3500 charging points for
electric vehicles across its German plants. And we're also entering into partnerships with large
retail chains. Customers will be able to charge their vehicles while they shop, Tesco's in the UK for
instance will be our first such partner and others will also then follow.
Now, one of this shows how massively Volkswagen invests in electric mobility. But to achieve a
real breakthrough and number of prerequisites have to be right. In the coming years
infrastructure development must grow at the same rapid rate, as the availability of new electric
cars. Owners and tenants for example, need to be given an official (inaudible) to install their
private volt boxes of their own.
Towns and cities could for instance introduce useful incentives for purchasing e-cars by for
instance providing special fast lanes for on the roads or more parking spaces or more available
charging points and we also need a new tax system that would help us to limit climate change.
There's no doubt customers are looking forward to the new to the powerful efficient electric cars
and obviously also the low cost of maintenance running costs related to those vehicles. But they
need certainty when it comes to the tax regime and the charging infrastructure. Now that is a
certainty that can only be provided by policymakers. And I sense that more and more people now
I coming round to this way of thinking. I hope that we will not stop at discussions but that this willlead to a pooling of energies. Let us stop criticizing, let us stop debating, let's shape that
transformation together.
Ladies and gentlemen, the great transformation to e-mobility is underway and we have an
excellent opportunity to gain a clear lead on our competitors, thanks to our vehicles. And when it
comes to the second grade transformation, the digital connectivity and autonomous driving, we
are also tackling the change with a similarly challenging what (inaudible) been radical plan. Namely,
software. Software will play a vital role in cars of the future that represents an ever greater
portion of a vehicle's value. Software will account for 90% of future innovations in the car. Now
what we previously thought and worked in the seven years cycles which is the cycle traditional to
the automotive industry. We would now need to think in periods of weeks perhaps merely days,
because our customers expect us to provide updates for our vehicles, services, across the entire
life cycle of the vehicle. They expect us to be always ready to identify new needs and then
respond to those needs and demands with our software, but we have to add the software world,
the software dimension to our vehicles, we have entered a world now that operates at a much
faster clock rate than before, it's a fundamental paradigm shift. It's a real challenge of the pace of
change is increasing all the time. Now compare a car to a smartphone these days. The car has ten
times as many lines of code now. And the self-driving car will be, probably a thousand times as
many. With a new golf ramp up, that has shown us that networking the various control units is
currently much too complex. In the future, we will become -- will be doing more (inaudible) and
we're planning to take over suppliers that in the past have delivered software to us.
The 70 controlled units from up to 200 different suppliers of the past. So to speak will be
merged into three central onboard computers three or four in the car. And at the same time, we
are the first traditional car makers that are organizationally separating the structure for hardware
and software development. Christian saying that, recently took charge of the digital car and
services function at the Volkswagen brand. But also he has responsibility for group activities in this
field. We are now developing VWOS our operating system for all of our future car services that is
similar to IOS or Android if you will.
This means, our future business model will be more like that of a mobile phone company. This
mobile phone companies customers are loyal fans of the hardware of the ecosystem, that
mobile phones, obviously, source of revenues for those companies. Because they provide a
system that can link to a number of different services. That with our new dealer contracts, every
customer will have an individual ID from April 2020, that enables us to come into direct contact
with our customers for the first time, and above all through digital channels. These are
fundamental changes in our business, and that's calls for entirely new skills, a dramatic
realignment. Today our 20,000 developers are 90% hardware oriented. Now that, we'll change
radically by 2030 software, then we'll account for half of our development cost. We will be doing
more of the work ourselves in future and we're also planning to develop more expertise and
software and car idea. Our focus also as on specialized training of our workforce, as part of the
new faculty 73 programmer talent incubator for software developers. And we also computing for
the best minds -- the greatest minds in the digital worlds. But that alone will not be enough yet.
This is why, we have also now started a collaboration with IT companies like Microsoft, like
WirelessCar, like Ticonium. Cooperation with Microsoft and the takeover with the other two
companies give a technological expertise and enormous boost, and they will add another 1,500
software developers to our group, and we will continue their our endeavors in that respect in this
field. So with this digital roadmap, we are readdressing the topic within the core brand and also
beyond the core brand. The brand Board of Management will then be sharing with your number
of details on Wednesday.Ladies and gentlemen, the Volkswagen Group is now better prepared for the future than many
would have thought possible. So, what we need now is to act more quickly and to address our
deficits. That is also why we are working hard, on the further refinement of our groups together
2025 plus strategy. We've attached to it quantifiable targets, specific measures and pursue the
aim of aligning our strategy with the rapidly accelerating speed of change. So we want to
become a stronger company for our employees. The more innovative company for our
customers, and the better company for society, and last but not least, we want to be a more
valuable company for our investors.
Now, we will be addressing more details of that, at one of our strategy days that we are planning
to hold this summer. But as one mission that's more relevant than ever before in a world which
environmental protection is becoming important, increasingly important, in which social values are
changing, Volkswagen is the watchword for a good future for individual mobility. I firmly believe
that the car will remain the most important means of transport for people, in tomorrow's world as
well. It's cleaner, safer and more comfortable than today. Thank you very much for your attention.
`Frank Witter, Member of the Board of Management `
Ladies and gentlemen these were the numbers and some fundamental remarks. At beginning of
his remarks `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer said that, Volkswagen will change fundamentally. This is why his
remarks were a bit longer than usual, but we can now turn to your questions. Let me invite you to
limit these question runs to the questions of journalists. And we'll take the questions of investors
and analysts in the meeting in the afternoon. So we could take until shortly after 11:00 for this
Q&A now. Let me begin with that Taylor [ph].
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
On the outside in the second row.
Q - Analyst
Good morning. I would like to ask the following, you said that some adjustments may be needed
for Bentley, in case of a harder Brexit. Could you explain this a bit more. And then you had
announced that the portfolio with its brands and assets will be reviewed again and again. Could
you give us an update on this.
And then third question is, what about autonomous driving, are you still in talks about this. And
what's your trained about this. I'm going to work with a third party or with another OEM Would you
like to comment on Bentley?
A - `Frank Witter, Member of the Board of Management `
Mr.Blume is responsible for the turnaround plan for Bentley. Of course we could also ask about
Brexit. We need a (inaudible) I think. In the meantime, I could turn to the portfolio. Yes indeed, we
do review our brand portfolio again and again, all the brands are developing extremely positively
at the moment. We are covering the most important needs, worldwide. We have a pretty strong
brand positioning, but of course we look at our brand portfolio again and again.
But at present there's nothing specific to report about this. Autonomous driving of cause moves
us it's one of the major innovations coming and in fact it will mean radical change. And I think,you've taken this from the president from comments. The enthusiasm that prevailed few months
ago has cooled clearly, it's going to come, but at first I think we will go through a little value of
(inaudible) in this hype cycle. And it's a good position to get started on this and find the right
partners, they're conducting talks on the one hand with Ford, we have also had talks with some
other German manufacturers.
We are positioning ourselves and I think we're at an equal footing with many competitors. And
we'll certainly make more decisions on this, in this year. And I think partnerships will be very
important on this, because the spending the cost is in a high single digit range of 1 billion, before
the first autonomous cars will be driving on the roads. It also means certain acceptance issues
and we also need to conserve resources, so it's a good thing to work together with partners.
Oliver now on Bentley.
A - `Oliver Blume, Brand Group Sport & Luxury `
I'll continue (inaudible) from Bentley, Frank later pointed it out Bentley had a difficult year. This was
due to the (inaudible) of the continental and due to WLTP issues and to some cleanup. We have a
new Board of Management team at Bentley with comprehensive turnaround plan, which now has
first successes to show for, for the first quarter of this year we've expect a positive result.
And we have prepared well for the Brexit, this includes own customs handling issues. This
includes all the logistics issues associated to this, also when we look at the import of material and
the export of vehicles. We have studied various scenarios and as soon as Brexit comes we will
compensate for various issues as far as possible. But we can't compensate completely on the
pricing side, tariffs will in fact be charged and we will see before the end of the year, but the
scenario will be like.
Operator
The next question comes from Mr.Robert is in the second row. Could he have a microphone,
please.
Q - `Christoph Rauwald,  `
Good morning my name is `Christoph Rauwald,  of . Mr.Witter you had pointed out that
the cost for WLTP amounted to amounted to about 1 billion, but now we've read it could have
been up to 3 billion. Could you give us a specific number on this? And the second question is on
self-driving technologies. Last year, we have read that you are thinking about acquiring a share
and way move up to 10%, is this still up to date. And thirdly and finally, this issue of headcount
reductions was mentioned by Mr.Diess and that it could be difficult to bring this about this
technological change in a socially acceptable way, could this also affect current agreements on
certain plants and might even have to think about compulsory redundancies.
A - `Frank Witter, Member of the Board of Management `
Let's begin with WLTP, I think it is necessary to save a few more things. I want to avoid giving you
some numbers, but first of all the dimension and the implications of WLTP We had additional
shifts, we had (inaudible) days, we had additional logistics capacities for some time. We made
valuable use of the Berlin airport to think of the impact on supplies, to think of the impact on
customers waiting for their cars. To give an idea of the dimension of what happened in the
operating business. So, before I get two numbers, I would first of all like to thank all our
customers and all people involved at dealerships and at the plants, that they kept a nerve. This
was nothing to be taken for granted, when you look at the second half of the year.I told investors again and again, we're talking about 1 billion when -- if it were the 3.5 that have
been branded about -- I would throw a big party, because if you take the 17 billion and add the
3.5 billion, that we would have had a sensational year adjusted for WLTP But in fact it was the 1
billion that came as a charge and there were two major drivers. One is that volume was lost which
we otherwise would have made. But there was also a need for sales aid which was considerably
higher. If customers are not getting what they expect, you need to sweeten the deal somewhat
for them. So, this explains the number.
You also looked at what it means for 2019, there will be a second WLTP Act, this is known there
will be (inaudible) this is emissions and there will be real driving emissions Audi [ph] and I think,
there will be a certain impact, but it will be clearly lower in 2019 than what we experienced in
2018. And the financial charges will also be lower in line with this, but it would be naive now to roll
2018 over in 2019. In fact, there will be some negative impact one or the other brand in 2019. The
whole tendencies somewhat biased to the right, but we have done a lot, we have additional
testing capacity. We have prepared well, we are better prepared now. But WLTP and all the other
issues mentioned will have their impact, but 1 billion is still a good number.
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
When it comes to questions on Weimar, we've never planned to take a 10% stake and we were
maybe there was some incorrect news that you had there. So we obviously, one of the great
technological car makers of course and our objective is to drive autonomously under our own
team, as it were with a direct access to code with our own IP In other words, we've never
considered to take a minority stake in an SDS operators electronics systems.
Now, I think we're looking into that with our colleagues from Ford, on an equal footing and
obviously they are also competing with other OEMs there. But we see good opportunities in the
next months for a participation and also a significant contribution, but 10% way move, that was
never a debate, never a discussion.
Staff cuts and discussions we're currently leading, predominantly related to administration where
we will also see more digital technologies in the next months to come. I can refer you to the
events are planned for tomorrow i.e. the press conference on the Volkswagen brand.
Compulsory redundancies are not under discussion, now any adjustments and structural change
requirements can only be solved together with labor representatives and talks are ongoing, but
we will not see compulsory redundancies.
Let me out in that context. It's very important to address that structural change early on in order
also to use the demographic changes, demographic developments. Now take the question of
how we are going to control Global components business. That is very much inline without all
discussions and not only here in Wolfsburg on the pact for the future with other brands as well. So
brace up for the challenge early on and this is what we're going to do going forward.
Okay, we need the mike down in the second row, (inaudible) .
Q - Analyst
Good morning. Just talked about the works council. The group works council complains about
mismanagement and difficulties and development. So, my first question is Oliver or Witter [ph]
with what he's saying. And my second question will there be consequences in terms of people
and staff.
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `Well, for sure WLTP in the way we dealt with it was not the way you should have done it not
optimal. Number of facts or problems related to that people, were still very much a working to
rectify the diesel situation and there were overtaxed in many ways, we were not prepared well
enough.
Now look at the complexity in our drivetrain portfolio, was probably just too much to handle that
promptly compared to what other OEMs has be doing. So, yes, adjustments have been made.
Any organizational structures, we've create new capacities how could that have been done
better? Of course, it could. I'm sure, if we had been focused early on, we probably would have
done it better.
As far as consequences in terms of staffing that's concerned, well I wouldn't say that. But, we
want to boost operating performance in development and therefore at Volkswagen, we're going
to see Mr.Robert from SEAT, very experienced Engineer. Who is going to boost the operational
strength to help Mr.Welsh [ph] in our organization, we're going to separate, as I said software and
hardware. Mr.(inaudible) will be playing an important role at Audi, we have a new year head of
development who is very -- I think systematic in this approach. Because Audi, obviously has seen
a change on the level of the leadership team. So I think the staffing changes now that have been
taken they are finalized.
And then we have a question from (inaudible) Journalist (inaudible) in row number four, please.
Q - Analyst
Yes talk to these two questions. The first one is very simple. How much were China account for
the 22 million production plan for the electric vehicles? and second if I can summarize your -- the
three key words, since you've become Group CEO, it's China, its software and it's electro
mobility. So your future will determined on China, your future will be determined on software, and
your future will be determined on electro mobility. So the question is, what is the link among
those three key words? Thank you.
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
Indeed (inaudible) touching on very important terms, that -- I think will place a in a very good
competitive situation where the large market share in China, we very profitable in China's as
Mr.Witter has said, we have an 18% market share in China. China perhaps is the pioneering market
also for e-mobility where we now have the highest sales numbers, most pronounced growth, a
political agenda for e-mobility has been taken now infrastructure is currently under development
in China truly. There is a commitment for e-mobility we believe. China will be developing rapidly
for the electric market. We believe this is an opportunity a good chance for Volkswagen to
develop economies of scale now. I mean we will see overtime, but 40% to 45% of our sales
volume is in China in the first years of e-mobility that will create a solid volume foundation to also
be competitors in the rest of the world with our MEB platform.
So yes, then you also mentioning software. Software also something that thing that, we believe
we have to be innovators. We also see that China has an innovative industry, when it comes to
software and also the large technology companies that are currently still in the US and to the
West Coast have been mirrored in China. But they have built them up in their own country and
we'd also see what's happening there and we also called upon developing local solutions in the
China with these marketing, Software and connectivity. There's actually a government program it
plays also on connectivity and autonomous driving bad for us, I think is an advantage.Yes, we have a good footprint where the powerful R&D function that we want to extend also in
China and actually you're bowling it down to what does really muttering. We see a strong focus
on China. E-mobility plus software will allow us to be even more successful globally.
Okay. next question goes to Mr.(inaudible) please. In the back of the room
Q - Analyst
Good morning, my name is Phillip (inaudible) . I would like to ask you two to three things. First of
all, you quite clearly now stated that you want to go for battery electric vehicles, there are other
voices especially within the VDA association. Would you like your colleagues to also make a clear
decision and also what does it mean for you within the group, what does it mean for other
development projects like fuel cells and synthetic fuels, will these be discontinued for more
focusing?
Then you also wanted more clarity for the tax situation. So, would you be interested in abolishing
any tax breaks for diesel fuels and then finally your relationship with Mr.Oslo, this seem to have
been difficult over the last few days, has this sort of cleared up again?
A - `Frank Witter, Member of the Board of Management `
Well, I think, I said in my speech, we now need to make a decision. We can't discuss about
technological openers anymore, this won't help. We need to change in system. This won't come
from customers, it won't come from the car industry, it will only happen if society wants. Chinese
society decided quite clearly they want this system change, they back electric mobility. It's going
to come. We still seem to bit more changeable at least in our public discussion and I feel that this
time should now be over. The facts are quite clear and the climate targets can only be attained,
with electric vehicles.
Well synthetic fuels, these are all interesting innovations, that should be pursued that, but they will
not take any effect within the next five to ten years. We need an effect in the short-term. We're
not giving up these technologies fuel cells do make sense, just think of this large surplus of
renewable energy production that we have whenever, there is -- and there is sunlight. And
there's problem of storage, then you can't store everything away in cars and once we have
reached that level that renewable energies are overflowing. This is the point in time then for
converting this energy into hydrogen, but you've seen in the charts, it's less efficient. For the
same distance traveled by car, it takes three times as many windmills are 2.5 times as many than
using this electricity directly for charging a battery.
So, let me clearly appeal to our colleagues as well focus on electrical and also an expanding the
infrastructure to fuel cell, will certainly be pursued further, Audi's working on this and it makes a
lot of sense and transport as well.
Tax clarity well here, I would simply like to make a suggestion. And the thing is, today, of course
customers are extremely dependent on the tax regime in their markets, but their prioritization of
cars. And Europe will still have a decent share of 70% to 80% in some countries, there are
markets in Europe, where there is a share of 5%. There are worldwide markets with the gas share
of 70% of the may also be differences that are regional, there are some countries where there
are no -- cars above 1.6 liters, simply for tax reasons.
So the tax regime influenced customers behavior very much. And I think for environmental
reasons we need to ask them, do we have the right tax regimes in order to support carbon
neutrality. That's the question I'm posing. I won't discuss what's more expensive or what shouldbe cheaper, but let me point out one thing which is curious. On the petrol price, on the gasoline
price, this includes a tax for the vehicles and this amounts to EUR350 of tax on CO2. We are
discussing carbon taxes of around EUR50 per ton. But for the car, it's already 350 -- around 350.
At the same time they're incentivizing -- we're incentivizing carbon emissions with 1 billion of coal
subsidies. So the production of coal ton of carbon, it's subsidies and EUR100 per ton from the
same tax coppers. So, it's really worthwhile thinking about this if we want to stop climate change.
Finally Mr.Oslo [ph] , well I think, we had a very constructive meeting yesterday, do bear with us
we're undergoing major dramatic change, we will bring about a lot of change at our plants, this
leads to a lot of insecurity among our people and among the works council as well. We are talking
about headcount reduction, not headcount increases, so I quite understand this that we have to
discuss things that, positions may be hardened, but we will resolve these things.
Two more things on text clarity, it's not just about Germany, but about the European context as
well. This has to do with the fleet businesses with company car, taxation and also then taxation on
the free electricity you may get.
(inaudible) in the first row.
Q - Analyst
Myself (inaudible), I would like to ask you a question concerning China. Chinese leaders
announced that foreign partners can also takeover majority shares. This may be something that
might be interesting to you. What is the current state is, what are your intentions and what impact
would this have, if you had a majority share? But impact with this have on the recognition of the
Chinese joint ventures in your balance sheet. It would no longer be covered at equity, but it would
be reflected in the operating profit, then it would be much nicer and much clearer.
A - `Frank Witter, Member of the Board of Management `
Thanks for pointing this out, this possible by the improvement. In fact, it's our task to reorganize
our Chinese interests in the next two years. We have a new joint venture JAC and our
commitment is to start along with SEAT, and then our truck strategy in China also needs to be
rethought. So, these are quite a few issues, and this also includes the question about the majority.
Some competitors have been able to achieve something here and the Chinese leaders are
opening up, towards this issue. So, we will be working on this during this year and hopefully by the
end of the year or beginning of next year, we will come back with some answers.
I think it's a very good environment for conducting these conducting these discussions now. And
on the other hand as you mentioned our interests in China are very valuable. So it's not that
cheap if you were to take over a majority share. Let me add if I may, we have wholly owned
subsidiaries in component production, and it's very gratifying to have them, when you look at
their operating profits in the existing joint ventures. The question is whether you have them
majority and control, this would change the way in which they recognize, but this is no issue at the
moment. But I won't keep it from you that it would be nice if the 4.6 billion were reflected in the
operating profit. At the moment the situation though, is the way it is and `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer has just
explained the strategic aspects.
Operator
The next question now from Mr.(inaudible) in the first row and then next question will come from
(inaudible)Q - Analyst
Thank you. Mr.Diess you mentioned that radical change was no easy. So in order to build 22 million
electric vehicles in 2028 profitably. So, how many people in France [ph] do you need to deduce.
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
Sorry once again how difficult to you, --
Q - Analyst
How many people are in France you need
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
To be -- we have to reduce. I think, it's probably we have an agreed reduction plan in our Hanover
facilities and Emden facility. This would total up to in between the two plants between 7,000 and
8,000 people until 2023 or 24. Which we still can manage under the size and demographics in
(inaudible) demographic.
Mr.(inaudible) is next. Second row, please.
Q - `Michael Hageman, EPA affects `
Thank you very much. (inaudible). Mr.Witter can you briefly talk about WLTP and tell us how many
vehicles how many vehicles that you had to sell off with a discount or can you not sell how many
you have been discounted -- discounting to buyers and Mr.Diess question on autonomous driving,
you're saying, you're talking to Ford. But what is there between you, the two of you, is it
technologies, is it strategies, is it about money that has not been clarified yet? And another
question on Weimer, has Weimer requested you for a stay? Thank you.
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, I'm not sure. I understood your question correctly. That it was a temporary problem where
we had up to 200,000 vehicles that had to be stocked, but -- because were added to those
stocks and others were removed from the stocks, it was an ongoing process of banking. Now is
this what your question was about, I am not sure whether I've been hitting the nail on the head
here. Could you follow-up and say what exactly you were talking about? But the question was
would the incentives page. But can you say, how much cause did you sell with a discount?
Q - Analyst
Well, I don't know.
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
You can't say that, with any Euro that comes in doesn't say where it comes from. We're looking at
a combination of different factors, we know of course, how many vehicles were sold off under
certain programs like the eco scrappage premium and how incentives have been paid. But
obviously, we're facing a situation of said -- as I said before, there have been a number of
vehicles that were offered as a product portfolio and customers wanted to reconfigure their
vehicles. And if they can't get the configuration they wanted you have to make some proposals ()
also fleet transactions. So the main factors here are vehicles lost an additional incentives.Now the truth of the matter is no one can tell at you the exact answer to the final Euro and Cent.
I've been talking about the gross numbers of risk, which is above 3 billion, which is a number that
we worked against to reduce it obviously, you don't really look what you're lacking in your
portfolio, but also what you have in your portfolio in order to sell it to customers. And our sales
people have been doing a good job. And obviously EUR1 billion. Obviously is a dramatic bag lock
that we're not selling here.
But it's -- again it's not possible to break it down to onto each individual car and the discount
which is has been sold, where have a good understanding of the general picture. But there's so
many processes throughout the year that are not necessarily related to WLTP that's competitors
taking campaign you have to respond in terms of dealer rates. So, that many other things that we
have been doing, but that EUR1 billion that I mentioned before hits the nail on the head I think.
Coming back to the question of autonomous driving. The past seven or eight months, we have
been systematically looking at the competitive landscape and also wanted to understand what
we should do. For us this is a key competence that we want to develop. And we do have
resources we already have established partnerships in that area. And in the last six-seven
months, we have reanalyzed that with many partners not all partners we have been meeting with
including also Waymo.
Waymo of course, as we speak today is a leader, still a leader, but about a half year we realized
that the Euphoria is waning a bit on self-driving systems. And it is impressive, I must admit that, to
sit in a car and drive around like that, without a steering wheel, you're being picked up by a car,
you get on and then, off you go. We have cars like this as well. But that is not the question, what is
the question how it works, often 90% or 95%, namely how do you do it right and safely?
How can we get government approval? How can we actually prove that under all conditions you
operate is safe and secure system? We learned a lot in that process. Audi has been a pioneer in
those past years when it comes to STS, but we then realize the safety you need in order to offer
such a system to your customer, is not something we can achieve at 100%. And turns out that it
will probably take even longer that we may have thought a year ago or two years ago.
So again yes we will be refocusing ourselves.. We have taken some fundamental decisions
already. So the robo taxis for instance, is something that our commercial vehicles subsidiary is
taken care of. Where the building cars now with a view to that like the (inaudible) that will have
sensors redundant steering systems. We beefed up personal capacities now that we have with
engineering experts. So, yes, I think we're in good shape and we're in a good talks with Ford, but
again this is not going to happen this week, is unlikely but we're going to fertilize this, this week.
Mr.(inaudible) microphone is near to, where you are. Mr.(inaudible) So you have to move mike a bit
Christo.
Q - Analyst
Yeah, good morning. Couple of question, you say that by the year 2022 you will have 18 factories
on three continents that will produce electric vehicles. I don't see any plant in Spain in Montreal.
So I was wondering if in the future since SEAT has announced new (inaudible) vehicle the plant is
been good contribute to this new strategy.
And the second question is, if you have as a group, some figures on sales of diesel vehicles.
Because I guess, these last year they've been probably a decline. Thanks.
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `First question maybe me first on manufacturing locations. And maybe then (inaudible) can say a
few words on diesel. Our electrification strategy is applied top-down. We below -- we believe this
is a meaningful approach we start with the premium brands, Audi then comes Porsche and then
we go down to the a AF segment. So, the goal segment and then say well above that SUVs and
saloon cars why? These are segments where we believe in the foreseeable future in other words
in the next five years. We're going to see a situation that such electric cars will be comfortable to
internal combustion engines, in terms of efficiency. So internal combustion engines will be more
expensive.
And then in the future, we can reach out to other segments like the (inaudible) as well. But we
need to think beyond that, so we will see vehicles and the polo class that that's much more
difficult, batteries remain expensive. So the price differences between a conventional car and an
electric car and that class like the polo or the up is a bit of a challenge. When it comes to the
economics. What I see it is working towards that of course but SEAT believes, that first of all the
production will start in China and then further decisions have not been taken as we speak.
Now, if you continue to think about what we want to do, (inaudible) go up to 40% by 2030 e-
mobility shares and obviously, we have to electrify those lower segments as well. And there will
be that one day when in spank we're going to develop the first e-car factories.
Now from (inaudible) on diesel. Now we're talking about 58% to 60% is down to low, to below
50% or 45%. In small cars, the diesel rate is only 7, 8, 9, 10 larger cars diesel shares bit higher.
Now our assessment for 2019 is we're heading for 45% of diesel share roughly.
Okay, can you pass the mike back by one row (inaudible) just a minute. I'd like to add something
here.
That was quite remarkable in the current discussions is that in some brands in the past two
months, especially in the fourth quarter of 2018, we have seen a rising share of diesel cars, again,
why because markets have responded differently. Nothing happened in Italy. In Italy the diesel
share remained on a rather high level in individual markets, including Germany with the discussion
on city driving bands or in the UK, the diesel share has been going down. But we see it notable
stabilization, and as (inaudible) has said it depends on the individual vehicle segments. Then when
I talk about stabilization, people think about residuals well we are seeing a reasonably stable
situation. When it comes to residual value and we've also adjusted the residuals for diesel cars,
which means for me as a finance experts I'm not seeing things that keep me awake at night
Q - Analyst
Ollie [ph] from Auto Express in the UK You've mentioned the licensing of MEB technology today
with (inaudible) and your discussions with Ford is that the total or can you confirm, if you are in
active discussions with other OEMs about access to MEB and would you consider deals, even
when the products they produce are in our rivals produce are in our arrivals for your own brands,
and could you oval also include manufacturing capacity for other OEMs in your factories.
A - Unidentified Speaker
(inaudible) few requests already, we are strong in China, you can imagine. Also this would open
up for smaller manufacturers to really become relevant. We are open manufacturing is to be let's
say considered. A Ford is one of our arrivals here in Europe. So if we license the platform to if
what would platform. We would be prepared also to help those colleagues. I wouldn't say that we
would invest for a plant for our manufacturing plant, but if we would have spare capacity
somewhere that is for sure an option if it makes economically sense, it's an option.Q - Analyst
So, done (inaudible)
Operator
Next Mr.Schmitz [ph] and then Mr.(inaudible) Mr.Schmitz in the middle by the window.
Q - Analyst
Just three short questions to for Mr.Witter. You spoke of investment in a e-mobility, which
increased in 2018. Maybe you could give us a number, how much this amounted since 2018,
maybe you could give us a number how much this amounted to. And what we've expect for 2019.
I suppose it won't decrease, the second question reducing complexity. Last year we launched 17
new models this year 19, this doesn't sound so much like reduction. What will this be like in the
years to come or did you not count e-mobility here, so that the number of models remains the
same after 25% target for Volkswagen and the 30% target for Audi. Maybe you could give us an
indication over what period of time, this is to come?
And the next question then for carbon targets you gave us 2015, as the basis for cars and 2010
for the plans, but you took these as a baselines. Why did you choose these baselines?
A - `Frank Witter, Member of the Board of Management `
(inaudible) could you begin and we will hear `Oliver Blume, Brand Group Sport & Luxury and on the plants and the carbon
figures. Complexity reduction well. Let me begin with the question on investment in e-mobility. In
2018, when you think of capital investment all in all, it was a share of about 3% and in 2019, this is
about to nearly double. So in fact this is a topic on which we are spending more and more and
complexity. Well it feels like contradiction, because in addition to combustion engines, we have
now the electrical world and we shouldn't forget our push on hybrids especially plug-in hybrids.
So, it's even more important that we come with good management and group wise
management. So when we embark on electrical mobility, we need to consider the positioning of
our brands. So that we have good efficiency and wherever possible. We follow along the lines
that we have taken on combustion engines, that is reducing the number of engine and
transmission versions. Electrification looks like a step back on this, but there is no alternative.
There are also the fleet targets to keep in mind. So financial discipline is extremely important and
is required in each brand has launched its own programs to support this. And these will also be
presented. Let me add concerning the Volkswagen brand, it's quite tangible. Volkswagen gave up
the fade turn (inaudible) , the EOS, the bit of convertible a few things are still under discussion the
golf, convertible has been given up.
So we've clearly streamlined the portfolio some models are being added,, electrical models, that
we didn't have before, but some electrical models will directly replace their conventional
predecessors. It will be an exciting task to manage the portfolio. When you look at tribe trains of
course also with the support of WLTP (inaudible) reduce the number of engines, group-wide this
is 25% to 30% the new golf, as about 80% less complexity on its launch, and it's the same for
Audi. But many of its new models. In the electrical world, we will be able to manage complexity
better, basically there are not so many different drivetrain versions are different battery sizes,
towards three performance sizes which are often controlled by software alone. So complexity will
be reduced in the electrical world batteries 60% to 70% compared to today. So this will give us
some headroom and we're very, very consistent in introducing our platforms. I think other
manufacturers are facing the same problem, but I think we're doing pretty well on it.Let me add on the investments on electric mobility. This is mainly capital expenditures, but it also
spending on research and development and by '23 -- 2023, we expect that, we're spending
about 30 billion on electrical mobility. This is a clear commitment, but there is no alternative when
you look at the major regions of the world where we need to change carbon targets and also
meet customer needs and we are quite optimistic about this. I think our products and you will
have an opportunity at select group will have an opportunity to experience this tonight. These
products safely give reason for enthusiasm, but could certainly hear something about the Taycan
and e-tron here. There is great customer enthusiasm and so our targets are not unrealistic. The
goal that (inaudible) 30% less complexity means that certain engine and transmission versions
are no longer used.
And this brings us to carbon at the production plants. Well, first of all environmental indicators and
production we have set quite rigid targets up to 2025. So, that we reduce environmental
emissions by 45% energy, water, waste and solvents. Will be influenced by this we've made
major progress over the last few years. Concerning carbon reduction here we expect clear
improvements, especially based on what Herbert just said like Brussels which is carbon neutral
and we're making the first purely electric Audi there in the 2000 when (inaudible) production the
same it's -- that we have carbon neutral production there.
We have three priorities first of all avoiding carbon emission. Secondly reduction and thirdly
compensation. Quite a few things will come, to explain why `Oliver Blume, Brand Group Sport & Luxury is talking about this on
the group Board of Management is responsible for production.
Let's now hear (inaudible) he is in the fourth row and microphone is coming.
Q - Analyst
Hi, I am (inaudible) . I haven't quite understood the employment development because of
electrical mobility. If you make 22 million electrical cars within the next 10 years, how much
additional headcount reduction is needed then beyond what has already been agreed and how
are you going to achieve this, and then concerning China you said the future is decided in China.
Now with the new Jetta Brand, going into the cheap segment there is particularly higher
competitive pressure then do you think you can achieve viable prices there. And then there are
many new competitors like new robots and an electrical mobility in China. What impact do you
expect from them. Do you think that do you think that many will not even make it. There all have
ambitious, targets of what's your assessment. While the employment development, we're
reviewing this every year with our planning. The electrical numbers are increasing under the
present -- planning and this reduces employment, but the impact will not be that dramatic. We
have time for this structural change.
For 2025, we expect about 15% electrical cars 15% to 20% for Europe. It may be a bit quicker but
not that much quicker, because we also need the batteries for this. So it will be within this range
and it will still be 80% conventional cars. So the cars -- the plants impacted and are not so many.
But there will also be productivity improvements because of digitalization. But so far we have
been able to manage the structural change along with employee representatives were not just
ignoring it waiting and seeing we're taking action early on in our training profiles, in the
employment of young people and in our programs. Now, we don't have this Mr.Killian [ph] here
unfortunately but his assessment is that the structural change is manageable. If we addressed
early on and we are addressing it early on.
China with Jetta brand yes, we had this long discussion were the Volkswagen should go intorightly, because the local brands grew very rapidly in China and they also took away market share
from us you know these brands. Local manufacturers like (inaudible) , they become very
competent and have come with very strong models.
On the other hand, we saw this trend in China. We have this long tradition, the Chinese entry-
level engine for the that is the Jetta in the north and the (inaudible) in the South. These are cars
that are seen like the Beetle here in the west. They have really started mobilization in China and
we saw that the Volkswagen brand as we were very aggressive in our pricing at the lower level of
the market, still profitable by very aggressive. We thought that it will probably make more sense
to protect the Volkswagen brand in the higher levels. After all we are offering premium cars like
the (inaudible) and to redefine the entry segment. And I think this idea of doing it with the Jetta
has advantages compared to a new brand Jetta is a really well-known brand name in China
different from here. Many associate very positive experiences with it.
So, this approach will help us use our own sales network. But, we can open up a second more
aggressive pricing line and I think looking back this has done us quite good. Because, this also
means focus on cost in a competitive segment like this. And this has done is quite a bit of good,
we're going there with our most advanced platforms. It's all based on the MQB So this focus on
costs has done is good will in fact improve our overall competitiveness in China. So, we'll have to
wait and see whether it works out, but we're quite optimistic the cars will be good, and even at
lower cost we can still achieve, good margins.
New competitors. Yes, there's a lot going on especially in China, you can read lot in the press and
of course there is this radical change in the car industry don't need engine competence anymore,
you may even be able to buy a platform. So this is an opportunity for starting new brands, some
will come through, billions are spent on this. But you also see it's not that simple case there, has
become very competent, but still entering our market is really a program that takes billions not
just one or two, it may be 10 or 20, and not everybody has this kind of money, and not everybody
will make it. So, there will be new competitors and I admit, they may be faster and one of the
other pointer may be better connected, but we still doing very well,
A - `Frank Witter, Member of the Board of Management `
We have Mr.Vincent Mr.(inaudible) . But then unfortunately I'd have to close these biggest list here,
and may I then asked you also to be very brief in the questions that are going to ask now,
because we want to make sure that we can take as many questions as we can. Now Mr.Hudson is
first here, he is in the first row, please.
Q - Analyst
Thank you. Two questions about China, you said the future of Volkswagen hinges on China . Now,
how do you assume your new task as group head for China? Can you explain to us the advantage
of situation when the group does not have an individual group representative board
representative in the country itself, in those difficult times, so what does that mean? And then
secondly, when it comes to e-mobility and software, you talked about staff cuts and production,
but you also saying that half of your development budgets will be changed over to software
development until 2013. Now what does that mean for those 20,000 engineers, it does that
mean also that they have to face or to fear staff cuts in vehicle development?
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
Now when it comes to China, and I think we've addressed it a number of times here. We have
received strategic need for action in China. China will be buying an entirely different role than(inaudible) . Now we see now technology in China that we have developed in Volkswagen and at
Audi (inaudible) , but produced locally in marketed at locally as well, drivetrains that have been
adapted also, and the design obviously also have been slightly adapted to the Chinese market,
but that will change.
It will change, because China now is a player on an equal footing, when it comes to comes to
connectivity and digital services. We believe that China in some areas of the automotive
development there will be assuming a leading role and can assume leading role why, because it's
a huge which market it continues to grow. As the growth potential the Chinese are very
innovation friendly they embrace innovation happily. Now they've been taking the lead in mobile
communication system and payment systems, as we had this morning.
And then Europe, we are obviously characterized by the big tech corporate technology
corporations and it can also foster in new development in other parts of the world. Now obviously
in China their internet companies search engines, so many tech-savvy companies that also have
been playing and will be playing an important role in the car market. We cannot assume at the
moment that we do business as usual as in the past decades and otherwise. Develop
technologies in Europe and market them and sell them in China, it's not going to work. With a
new ecosystem, with a new political conditions there this will no longer be required.
Now the decision team see, we how to organize ourselves that those decisions will be taken now
2019, 2020. And again these are not local decisions to be taken in an individual market because
these are overarching decisions for Audi for commercial vehicles. So all of our group brands have
to engage in that dialogue, and take the decision from there. So I think, it's the right decision now
to look at the organizational setup of the group in the next year or two with a strong focus on
individual brands and what those brands want and then we have to sort it all together and see
how it falls into place. Also that is important for our joint ventures future technologies (inaudible)
autonomous driving, what our technology partners going forward. And because it is so important
you cannot operate businesses is individually locally in every part of the world. It may change in
the future, yes, but I think strategic and now as we speak, we have to reorganize ourselves here
in order to embrace the future, that is important.
Now, secondly you asked about software. Yes, this change is ongoing, I should add though that
today, we hardly have any software competence in house. We purchase a lot of software that's
already in the control units, obviously we have good competence and connecting different bus
system control units, and to make sure that the software works, different times of software work
on our vehicles, but also that will change. In the future we'll have our own software stack [ph], that
is developed by our own-self centrally here, based on the group level and obviously there will be
a number of core components that will then be used by subsidiaries by the brand's, gives as
economies of scale. So yes, this change is a reality.
But when it comes to 2030, we will still individual brand designs or add-ons, differentiation
between sporty or less sporty cars, a lot of hardware differentiation, I will not assume therefore I
will not assume, that we will have to make cuts in that respect, but the software components will
be much more important, we need to develop more software competence. On the start-up
companies that you just mentioned all the competitors that the US West Coast, already today
account for that 50% split they have 50% software, 50% hardware engineers and we need to be
heading there as well. Okay, next one.
Q - Analyst
You said you reiterated the goal of 5% market share in North America. Can you get to thatVolkswagen offset the management use of private aircraft, which are very carbon-intensive
vehicles and will you get rid of your -- do you plan to get rid of your or limit your private aircraft
fleet. private -- is of a current fleet (inaudible) corporate fleet, so I don't know [ph]
A - Unidentified Speaker
To come back to you end of the first quarter, because we have a new team in place. I think
they're working really hard to improve our US Strategy. We have been growing over the last year
so brand was recovering the new products are successful, we are becoming more and more a
SUV brand, Tiguan is working well Atlas is working well. Now five seater will come. So, we will
increase our portfolio. I would say, we've also considering one of the other product from the Ford
partnership. So, there is a plan to be worked out with stick to the strategy that we have to
become relevant as a volume player in the United States which means a market share of at least
5%. So far, we didn't pronounce when it's for sure a long way to go, but we won't give up.
I think the team is really motivated and could under way and I would say end of the first quarter
we would come back to you with this new refined plan for the Americas.
A - `Frank Witter, Member of the Board of Management `
Just to add on that side we shouldn't forget that. Yes, we have our issues with Volkswagen
passenger cars in North America. But we also have Porsche and Audi who are doing extremely
well and are very successful in North America. But Volkswagen past is obviously to be refined.
With respect to corporate fleet, yes, we do have a corporate fleet of aircraft. I think if you have
this type of global footprint and the amount of work, which we need to accomplish. I think for the
time being it is unavoidable that we operate corporate aircraft but we are certainly paying
attention to CO2 and other measures cost as well. Therefore, we are optimizing the composition
particularly for the shorter, distances intonation [ph] here in Europe but for the time being it is the
only way to do what we are requested to do but we optimize the fleet.
A - Unidentified Speaker
May I add I was -- when we started this CO2 discussion, now it's also becomes relevant what
how's your footprint. So, what would you and those the private aircraft fleet is a big contributor
(inaudible) now it's bit dangerous to announce it, but the average European has CO2 emissions
of the between 7 tons and 8 tons in the North more than in the in the South, South is probably
below five or so. I have 1300. Yes. And this has to do with using the corporate fleet a lot, so I have
to travel forward and backward to China, US but my commitment is to at least try to reduce it by
20% using more. It's not public transport, its general the normal business aviation -- business
Aviation. So it's something to consider in the new world.
Q - Analyst
(inaudible) .
A - Unidentified Speaker
Next question goes to Mr.Mensal [ph] second row please and then (inaudible) in the back and Mr.
(inaudible) .
Q - Analyst
(inaudible) Do you think you are promising too much when it comes to e-mobility. So, you talking
about 22 million vehicles, but you have software problem solving to go from market. Now thenfrom Jetta, we're hearing that something is not going quite so well some glitches there.
(inaudible) your model policy doesn't work out the way, you think so, do you have a handle on
that process, aren't you promising too much? Because that WLTP was case in point something
you underestimated. So shouldn't you be more careful when it comes to targets for e-mobility.
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, that's a valid point to make. Our transformation plan that we are embarking on this
extremely ambitious and it's true that we have a number of a areas needing improvement, Audi,
strategic questions, we're still facing a crisis situation in some markets though. It's an extremely
ambitious program, but having said that, Volkswagen has a powerful team, has a lot of expertise.
But if we managed to mobilize them, I think we're standing a good chance to get it done.
Strategically speaking, I think we're in much better shape than many of our competitors. But of
course, it's going to be quite a tall order, and I'm sure that some things will not work out, but still
there is no alternative to that, we have an aggressive transformation plan that is the must.
A - `Frank Witter, Member of the Board of Management `
(inaudible) is next then.
Q - Analyst
(inaudible) of automotive spot. My first question is on PPA, do you categorically rule out
partnership or are you already looking for partners sharing the platform with you? And the second
question, the Jetta in China is based on the MQB, the new low budget car in China as well, is
there any connection between these two projects?
A - `Frank Witter, Member of the Board of Management `
No, (inaudible) the Jetta is our enter segment, and there is no alternative. (inaudible) MQB and it
was a difficult discussion we had, I think looking back it was right, because this gives us an
extremely modern car. And it was certain to be successful against competitors, this leads to
economies of scale for the new platform not on a PPA platform that's being phased out.
(inaudible) are very much committed to this discussion, and when we discuss the Jetta and the
MQB, I think, we were doing a good thing. On PPA, we are not thinking about this is really about
the volume platform, where scale is even more important than the PPA, we have great
differentiation, there is 800 volts. There are different transmissions, so PPA is not on the program
at the moment. Thank you very much. (inaudible) needs to microphone then and then Mr.
(inaudible) .
Look I thought you'd overlook me.
Q - Analyst
I have two questions. First one on the works council Mr.(inaudible) is a very influential man and he
is also are very emotional or maybe even sensitive man. What gets on your nerves more and the
second question is said, the question where the power electrical power for your electric car is to
come from moves you a lot. But would you expect from politicians?
A - `Frank Witter, Member of the Board of Management `
Well, it was in the press interview Mr.(inaudible) is emotional and spontaneous at times and hard
to predict the times for me. But is also characterized by the fact, that he knows the company like
hardly any other and also knows its weaknesses and things in a very entrepreneurial way. Sodiscussing rhythm, working on issues with him. Does make things exciting at times, but it also
gives you a lot of content, he does know a lot and so all in all I think we've done very well. What
we expect from politicians, focus on electrical mobility, electrical mobility is the only way of
obtaining the climate targets looking forward, and we especially need help in building the
infrastructure. So that people living in apartments, can charge their cars or can charge in public car
parks, and this can be supported by public funds by subsidies. We need a tax system that also
helps avoid emissions and politicians are ready for this discussion and the association, also needs
to go in this direction.
Q - Analyst
You are an -- very elegant in your answer. But I still can't really imagine what your personal
relationship with Mr.(inaudible) , you can gladly come along, immediately come.
A - `Frank Witter, Member of the Board of Management `
Electric mobility and power. But it is a challenge to provide the power because we still have this
high coal part coal portion in our power production, you can look at it and various apps and days,
on which there is little wind and Sun, not today. Today is quite good I think, but on other days the
coal share is still more than 500 grams of carbon per kilowatt hour. And this is too much for
electrical cars, electric driving doesn't make any sense then, on good days when we're at down
at 250 grams per kilowatt hour it does make sense, an electric car is more efficient then. And with
the exit from coal, we've seen the stage has been set. We're going in the wrong direction, but
many countries are not that far, others are more progressed than the US., there is a little coal
share or in France, there is nuclear power. But there are also other examples like Norway, Austria
and Switzerland, we're doing clearly better.
Spain is also clearly cleaner powers in Germany, and this is a precondition for going electrical. But I
think this is underway now, and of course this is a task for politicians and also for the industry the
structural change. But, it's manageable, if you want to. To have a coffee with Mr.(inaudible) and
Mr.Diess is planned, its agreed.
And then we have another question in the second row. And Mr.Ferrari [ph] then, we'll be able to
ask the last question.
Q - Analyst
Doesn't have (inaudible) of NDR radio, two questions that on remarks you made today on
headcount production -- reduction. You ruled out compulsory redundancies on the other hand,
you said it will be difficult to only rely on a nutrition and semi-retirement. Now this sounds a bit
contradictory as it tried to say that in the short term, you will rule out compulsory redundancies.
But you can't rule them out in the long term. The second question, is about this evergreen topic
the battery cell Factory. You found the new wording today, you are reviewing participating in
battery production in Europe, but will it be your own of will you be investing in one. I noticed when
I read it out and (inaudible) could comment on this.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Said they -- we have a center of competence of our own and we are beginning to study battery
cell production and battery development but there are also others who have achieved some very
interesting things. So we are talking to them, ultimately we are putting something together which
will allow us to bring about this immense transformation, the creation of this new big industry. So
that it will become possible to do this in Europe. So that we can advance this aggressiveelectrification strategy, we will certainly contribute whether it will be completely owned factory for
ourselves, we will see.
Two things concerning the first part of your question, compulsory redundancies have been ruled
out. If a Germany until 2025, it's been agreed. We have early retirement, we have time banking
these instruments that are very valuable. They find high acceptance among those age groups
qualified for this. We also have to ask ourselves how many young people to train and then what
occupations. So we have a whole set of tools and we've expect that people use them of course
early retirements, this is the voluntary think and we have to rely on acceptance, but so far we've
been quite successful and we have started pretty early on. So, we think, we have enough time
and we can ride the demographic curve, but it's not easy. It won't happen by itself, but working
on it and we've made good progress so far. That our targets on early retirement for the
Volkswagen brand, passenger car brands has been achieved, have to sign off to take some time
until people will then retire. But, it is an effective instruments and they haven't bought on this way.
Now, one last question.
Q - Analyst
Two question related to CO2 emissions. The first one is, what is the current CO2 emissions
average for Volkswagen group and brands. And the second one is that will all the Volkswagen
group brands will avoid penalties or sanctions in 2020 or 2021? Thank you very much.
A - Unidentified Speaker
in 2,000 -- It's 5,000 [ph] after in Hamburg (inaudible) -- currency rates by
A - `Frank Witter, Member of the Board of Management `
-- 123 grams of CO2 as the European fleet average. So we're still pretty much off the target, but
we're going to tend the target, especially based on electrification. You asked about the value for
France, I don't have this. We will have to check on this. And what else did we have. We will avoid
assumptions, we will avoid penalties, we will avoid section of your sanctions.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes, all the branch of -- we will be able to avoid the sanctions. This is our plan.
Thank you very much, indeed ladies and gentlemen, this was the 2019 media conference. We
would like to thank you very much for attending and being so interested. If you want to know
even more about Volkswagen and its brands. I can only encourage you, tomorrow there will be
the Volkswagen brands annual conference on Thursday, then the Audi conference and on Friday,
we will round off this week with Porsche and (inaudible) . We would like to thank you for having
come here. If you like, there will be some refreshments for you on the third floor. We are now
continuing the conference with the analysts and Investors. This will be at 1 o'clock. Have a nice day.