Y 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Nicole Mommsen, Head of Global Group Communications `
Good morning. Hello. (Foreign Language) to everybody who is joning us today. A warm welcome
to the Annual Earnings Press Conference of the Volkswagen Group. My name is `Nicole Mommsen, Head of Global Group Communications,
and I'm Head of Global Group Communications.
Yesterday, many of you already joined us for our Power day. Today, our CEO, `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer, will
tell you how battery and charging fit into the overall picture. Our CFO, `Frank Witter, Chief Financial Officer, will present
last year's annual earnings, and our new CFO, `Arno Antlitz, Incoming Chief Financial Officer, will present his CFO agenda for the
coming years. Our executives will hold their presentations in English, and our Q&A later on will be
in German.
And with that, let me hand over to `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer.
`Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Nicole. Ladies and gentlemen, 2020 was a unprecedented year, a year in which
Volkswagen mastered one of the biggest challenges in our history. In the pandemic, we manage
supply chains and production worldwide, made sure our employees are safe and secured
liquidity. At the same time, Volkswagen accelerated its transition into a climate-neutral, software-
driven mobility group. I would like to thank our 670,000 employees, they have taken us through
this crisis.
Today, I will be sharing the stage with both our current and our new CFO. `Frank Witter, Chief Financial Officer has been
CFO since 2015, he will pass on the baton to `Arno Antlitz, Incoming Chief Financial Officer, who joins from Audi in April.
Ladies and gentlemen, Volkswagen has proven to be robust and powerful in 2020. Global
passenger car sales fell to 68 million units last year. In total, the Volkswagen Group delivered
around 15% fewer cars than in 2019. At the same time, we could increase our global market share
slightly to 13%. In China, we have strengthened our partnerships with a focus on electrification.
And for the first time, we acquired majority shareholdings in two joint ventures, both dedicated to
e-mobility.
Audi and FAW plan the production of premium e-cars in Changchun. In Anhui electric joint venture,
Volkswagen increased its share to 75%. Audi reached a sales record with a plus of 5.4%. Porsche'sdeliveries grew by 3%. An important model to strengthen Volkswagen's premium appeal in China
is the new Viloran. It is a comfortable and luxury van with seven seats, providing first-class travel.
In South America, our teams are delivering an impressive turnaround story. In 2020, we raised our
market share to a new record of over 14%. And for the first time in many years, we expect the
region to be profitable in 2021. With the Nivus, Volkswagen for the first time will sell a car in
Europe that was developed in Latin America.
In North America, we now have the right product lineup and substance, tailored to the taste of
our customers in the region. The upcoming Taos is the fifth new SUV in only four years time.
Our portfolio will soon consist of attractive SUV models only. A rebirth of our Volkswagen brand,
which will be propelled by our electric push with the ID.4 production starting in Chattanooga and
the homecoming of the iconic ID.Buzz.
In Western Europe, we could grow our share of electrified vehicles from 1.9% in 2019 to 10.5% in
2020. SKODA showed strong momentum. The brand was the main driver of our market share
growth in Europe. For this year, we expect to overcome the COVID crisis, with demand picking up
in the second half.
In 2020, we also set the future course by strengthening the Group's Management Board. The
new Board is set to unleash value. We will accelerate our transformation journey in 2021 and
beyond. `Arno Antlitz, Incoming Chief Financial Officer will ensure that we generate the funds to finance the transformation and
that we allocate our resources towards future technologies. Building a strategic supply chain
management, this will leverage global synergies across brands and reduce material costs. Murat
Aksel joined the Board.
Thomas Schmall joined the Board as the member in charge of technology in January. He has
taken the lead on battery and charging, which is becoming a core business for the Group.
Five years ago, we have initiated Volkswagen Group's transformation towards emobility. 2020
marked a turning point in customer sentiment and Volkswagen benefited from that trend. We
delivered around 230,000 all-electric vehicles, three times more than the prior year. We lowered
the emissions of new passenger cars in our European fleet significantly and finished the year with
a gram of -- within a gram of our 2020 targets.
In 2021, we are confident that we will meet the targets by scaling up production and deliveries. In
the course of the year, our BEV sales will pick up step by step. Enyaq, Q4 e-tron and the CUPRA
Born will be available in Europe. The ID.4 will be ramped up in two Chinese plants. And later the
ID.6 will come to the Chinese market.
In 2020, TRATON implemented its Global Champion Strategy to leverage scale and technology.
TRATON announced the acquisition of US manufacturer Navistar to strengthen its presence in
North America, the most profitable truck market in the world. Scania will establish a fully-owned
truck production facility in China. And MAN started its restructuring program in Germany to raise
competitiveness. Also, TRATON will invest billions into electrification. Emissions in freight and local
public transport can be reduced much faster than in the passenger car fleet.
In Hamburg, MAN's Lion's City E bus is already part of a mobility ecosystem with zero emissions.
Each electric bus saves up to 80 tons of CO2 per year. It is the right time for cities to switch from
old diesel busses to electric transportation. MAN and Scania can help with that. In addition,
WeShare operates around 800 ID.3s for private car sharing. And MOIA enables ride-pooling with
soon up to 500, also electric shuttles.Volkswagen will support the decarbonization of cities and regions worldwide. In Europe, we are
helping to implement the Green Deal. In a partnership with the Greek government, we will
replace the existing fleet on Astypalea island, with around 1,000 e-vehicles, connected via a
mobility app. Astypalea serves as a real-time experiment to explore what it takes to make people
fully switch to sustainable mobility.
In Spain, we just met with the Prime Minister and the Spanish King. Together, we share the vision
of transforming Europe's second-biggest car industry with the local production of e-cars, battery
cells and battery modules. The project is on the starting block. Its execution will hinge upon a
clear commitment by the European Commission.
Ladies and gentlemen, e-mobility has won the race. But the transformation won't happen
overnight. It will take two lifecycles to change from old auto to new auto. New auto includes the
switch to electric drives, which is the easier part, and to software turning the car into a connected
and autonomous device. In 2030, we foresee a 50% BEV share in our global deliveries. In Europe,
we expect around 60%. In 2035, the majority of vehicles will be electric and around 40% of cars
will drive autonomously. Financing the transition to new auto will be based on selling highly
efficient combustion engine cars.
We will keep selling ICEs in some regions longer than in others. E-mobility will come at different
levels of speed globally depending on local policies and the supply of CO2-free primary energy.
Over the whole period, we will optimize the ICE business with fewer models, better price mix,
lower fixed costs, leading to higher profitability. As a result, we can shift additional funds towards
new auto.
Ladies and gentlemen, Volkswagen has always been a platform champion. Millions of customers
drive cars based on the production kits MQB and MLB. Now we are taking the platform approach
to a new level and adjust it to our future core competencies hardware, software, battery and
charging as well as mobility services.
By providing strong, unified platforms, our passenger car brands can unleash the full potential
and leverage synergies.
The same principle applies to our truck and bus business. Our truck brands share software stacks,
hardware platforms and services.
Our very own MEB platform serves as proof of concept. The world's first volume platform has
taken e-mobility into our core business. In the Northern half of Germany, not only our own sites,
but also the Ford site in Cologne will be transformed by the MEB. Our components sites account
for around 40% of the ID-family value chain, with sites in Braunschweig, Kassel and Salzgitter.
Today, MEB production takes place in Zwickau and Dresden, and it will start in Emden and in
Hanover in 2022. It will also come to Wolfsburg in 2026 with Trinity.
We are rolling out the MEB worldwide with a production capacity of 1 million vehicles. The ID.3 and
ID.4 are produced in Germany, so will be the Q4 e-tron and the Cupra Born. In the Czech
Republic, we will build the Enyaq. In China, following the launch of the ID.4 at two sites, the ID.6
will begin production this year. In 2022, the ID.4 will start production in Chattanooga, in the United
States. Volkswagen Anhui in China will start producing new MEB based models in 2023.
Ladies and gentelmen, over the next decade, software will transform the car fundamentally. The
Car.Software Org will develop our new software stack. Volkswagen.OS will be first implemented
in the year 2024 in the Audi project Artemis. The organization has been growing rapidly. We aregetting job applications from all across the world. Targeting up to 10,000 employees, it will be
the second-largest software company in Europe only after SAP.
There is only one complex software domain where Europe still has a chance to play a leading
role, the next generation of automotive software. Our Car.Software Org is in the best position to
master this challenge, a huge chance for Germany and Europe. To develop the necessary skills,
we are currently integrating the software capabilities of 15 companies with more to come. Our
goal is to increase the share of in-house development from currently 10% to at least 60% by
2025. Already today, most of the software developers are working in the area of automated
driving. Similar to Tesla, they are taking an evolutionary approach, automated driving for private
cars. Starting from today's driver assistance systems like Volkswagen's travel assist, we will
develop automated driving functions up to Level 4, together with ARGO AI.
On the other side, we are pursuing a second way to autonomous driving, the driverless vehicle
for mobility services. Here the core systems are designed for lower speed and more complex
environments like in cities using LiDAR as the base technology. It will allow us to build up our
system capabilities for mobility and transport as a service. We are merging the ARGO self-driving
system, the autonomous ID.Buzz and MOIA to a comprehensive mobility offering. The
autonomous ID.Buzz will begin test operations this year, bringing the driverless system into full
operation by 2025.
Ladies and gentlemen, both elements of the transformation, hardware and software, cannot be
separated from each other. Until 2022, electric platforms will take over the lead. In 2024, we start
to merge our electric hardware platforms and synchronize with the unified software platform. We
call it Scalable Systems Platform. Speedboat projects like Artemis, Trinity and Apollon will lead the
transformation. By the end of this decade, we will be able to roll out the SSP across all vehicle
classes.
As we announced during Power Day, we will reduce complexity and focus on only one single
battery cell. From 2023 onward, we will be ready for rollout. By 2030, one cell format will cover
80% of the use cases in the Group. New chemistry and manufacturing processes will reduce
battery costs by up to 50%. This will make e-cars even more affordable, and as a result even
more attractive.
Charging will be as easy as refueling. We are raising the number of fast charging points in Europe
by five times over the next four years. Strong partners like Iberdrola, Enel and BP will boost our
European network. In the US and China, Volkswagen is building nationwide fast charging networks
already with Electrify America and CAMS.
At Volkswagen, we are building the skills to offer mobility as a service to our customers for every
situation in life. Our goal is to have full system capabilities in each sector. With that, we will be an
attractive partner for any mobility service company. Whether MOIA, WeShare, car subscriptions or
financing, customers will benefit from a seamless range of services.
Ladies and gentlemen, within two lifecycles, the car industry will radically change. Profit pools will
shift from conventional cars into EVs and then radically into software. We are driving that change
with our strong brands in premium and in volume. Leveraging competitive scales in hardware,
software and services. We are confident that following this transition, Volkswagen will be an even
stronger company with higher market shares than today. Our profitable ICE business will broadly
finance the transition and open new profit pools for us. In 2021, we will recover from COVID and
speed up the change once again. Thank you.Before handing over, let me thank `Frank Witter, Chief Financial Officer. Frank, you always have secured our financial
stability that was through many crisis, but you always have been focusing as well on the strategy.
You never let strategy out of sight. For me personally, you always have been very, very supportive
and committed. So thank you very much for that. And please go on.
`Frank Witter, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you very much, Herbert, for your warm words. Very much appreciated. Yes, ladies and
gentlemen, also a warm welcome from my side to our Annual Press Conference. End of February,
we provided you already with the key financial for calendar year 2020. Today, we are publishing
the entire Annual Report and we would also certainly shed light -- more light on this truly
unprecedented calendar year 2020.
Let's start with the VW Group in total. Certainly COVID was in this calendar year all over us and
certainly our numbers and had a negative impact on our business worldwide. But I think we truly
did a good job on effective crisis management in respective brands and also centrally under the
leadership of Gunnar Kilian. We had a rapid recovery in our second home market, China, which
clearly helped a lot of our brands and the premium business again demonstrated to be more
robust than volume and also our financial services turned out to be very, very stable.
If you start with sales revenue, we ended the year in total, this EUR222.9 billion, that is certainly
down EUR30 billion equivalent to 11.8%. But we have a year, which is clearly a divide between H1,
which was down more than 23% versus 2019 and a much, much stronger H2, which was already
basically on prior year level, with particularly strong momentum in Q4.
Key drivers for the development on the revenue side, were clearly on the negative side, the
volumes, which we were missing and exchange rates were also working against us. The user
suspects, so to speak, the weak South American currencies, the Russian ruble, Turkish lira, but
also the renminbi and the US dollar didn't help on the revenue side. Positive, we continued to
have a positive mix effect in our numbers, particularly type mix, and this more than EUR5 billion
was very strong. And also we have been able to price more than EUR2 billion positive on the
revenue side.
If you now focus on the operating profit side, which came in, in total at EUR10.6 billion, which is
suddenly down EUR8.7 billion versus the previous year equivalent to 45%. But if you go back for
just a second how we looked at the world, how uncertain the world looked like to us in April and
May. And I think we gave our projections at the time we can clearly say that those numbers we
have been posting at the end of the calendar years are much, much better than our expectations
in April and May. So we had a very strong recovery, thankfully in H2 2020, with a very exceptional
strong Q4, which ended up to EUR8.2 billion for the Volkswagen Group in total, which is a return
on sales, which is even far less [ph] than that's extremely high of more than 12%.
But it was also a year where we prepared for the future. We had restructuring expenses in the
automotive division in total EUR0.5 billion. The major impact came from MAN Energy Solutions,
almost EUR360 million, but also for Volkswagen Passenger Cars, again, in South America had to
restructure its operations, which did account for minus EUR132 million. And last, but not least, also
Bentley almost EUR30 million are included as for the others in the operating result. But these are
investments into positive effect for the years to come.
2020, ladies and gentlemen, again was a year with special items in our P&L. EUR900 million did
hit the P&L on the positive side, EUR1.4 billion lower than in calendar year 2020, but a tremendous
burden to our P&L. Cash out not to be mixed up. Cash out was, for diesel, EUR2.5 billion. AllThe operating return before special items came in at 4.8%, which is obviously down from the
7.6% in 2019. So Volkswagen Group, ladies and gentlemen, proved its robustness in calendar year
2020 despite the continuing challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Let's now focus on the top line results for the individual brands. You will certainly get much more
details from my colleagues in their respective sessions. Let's start was Volkswagen Passenger
Cars. I think when we looked at the numbers at Q3, it wasn't clear that we will post a profit of
EUR500 million for the full calendar year. So we had a strong recovery in Q4 with a margin of 6%.
The operating return on sales before special items came in at 0.6%. Certainly also Volkswagen
Passenger Cars as the global leading player, suffered from lower volumes and also the negative
exchange rates I was referring to, but the colleagues in the brand worked hard on the fixed cost
and also better pricing did help. In the net results, we had special items recorded of EUR800
million, all for diesel.
Let's go to Southern Germany with Audi operating profit before special items came in at EUR2.7
billion, which is 39.3% down, but clearly are recovering in the second half, because at half year
break, numbers were much, much smaller. Decreased volumes and negative exchange rate
effects, again, its in P&L, but also Audi was able to reduce fixed cost. We had a positive one-off
effect from the deconsolidation of AID, EUR500 million of the total EUR800 million effect is in
Audi's P&L. And Audi's transformation plan and Audi's Tucson [ph] program do work and help
Audi through this difficult calendar year.
The operating return before special items came in at 5.5%, certainly not reaching up to the 8.1%
for calendar year 2019. Q4 was exceptionally strong with more than 50% return on sales. That is a
remarkable quarter for the fine brand. Also in Audi, we had special items for diesel, EUR200
million were included.
If you now go on with another volume brand, SKODA, operating profit at EUR800 million certainly
lower than the EUR1.7 billion a year ago. Again, lower volumes, the strong Czech koruna and also
emissions related expenses of more than EUR300 million, which were included, were providing
strong headwind, but cost optimization partly compensated. In total, a positive 4.4% operating
return on sales.
If we now move on to SEAT, Southern Europe, the operating result, we posted a loss of EUR339
million, certainly a huge swing from the EUR445 million a year ago. Lower volumes, particularly in
Europe, did hurt and also emissions related expenses of roughly EUR260 million are included.
Operating return on sales, respectively, is minus 3.7%. But we also had important product
launches in calendar year 2020, which will help in the years ahead. The new Leon family, but also
the form and towards tremendous coupe crossover with two plug-in hybrid versions, which are
available for customer orders.
Going again into luxury, Bentley, still even with the difficult market conditions did post a profit of
EUR20 million. We had to absorb higher depreciation charges, one-off restructuring expenses of
roughly EUR28 million, which I already referred to and negative exchange rate effects. Vehicle
sales were quite strong, especially China, and we did see, generally speaking, worldwide, a lower
impact from corona on premium and luxury segments. Operating return came in at 1%.
Now coming to Porsche, a very impressive EUR4 billion operating profit. Yes, we had this lower
impact, which I already referred to on premium and luxury segments, which certainly led to lower
vehicle sales of minus 4.2%. We had some cost increases for digitalization and electrification, very
important for the future going forward and some negative exchange rate effects. But it is a very
top performance by our colleagues in Stuttgart and still posting 15.4% in such a year on operatingreturn on sales is remarkable. And just to cite Q4 24.8% operating margin is even for this fine
brand, a very tremendous quarter and that certainly can't be just carry on to be the benchmark.
Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles and operating result also in negative territory with minus
EUR454 million, a huge swing from the EUR510 million profit just a year ago, 110,000 lower sales
couldn't be absorbed. CO2 related expenses also for Volkswagen Passenger Cars, almost
EUR340 million are included and also negative exchange rates did hurt. But the guys worked
hard, product cost optimization and some effect were able to offset some of that headwind. At
the end of the day, if you sum it up, operating return on sales at minus 4.9%.
Now, move on to heavy-duty truck and buses, Scania, one of the benchmarks in the industry, but
even that strong brand couldn't avoid an operating profit decline of 50% to -- but still in profit
land, EUR0.7 billion. Lower volumes and also negative exchange rate effects deterred, but the
new truck is in the market, so we have a positive mix effect and also a very stable service
business, which is particularly helpful in a crisis. Operating return came in, in total, for the calendar
year at 6.5%. And Q4 was almost 10%. Return on sales was back on track where this fine brand
belongs.
MAN Commercial Vehicles also certainly impacted by weak markets, so we had a loss of minus
EUR633 million, lower vehicle sales, but also launch cost for the new truck generation, which is
going certainly to help and be an asset in the years to come. Operating return on sales came in
at minus 5.8%. The restructuring program you all know about is not yet included in the figures for
the calendar year 2020. This will hit the P&L in the first quarter of this year. But clearly, it is, again,
an investment to improve the performance in the coming years.
Let's take a look at China, our second home market group deliveries came in at 3.8 million
vehicles, only 9.1% down year-on-year. This is the best-performing region for us in the entire
world. But it is also the most important single market for the Volkswagen Group, roughly 41% of all
our deliveries are belonging to China and we appreciate the market share of 19.3%, which clearly
states that we are the proud number one in China.
We had a very weak Q1 in 2020. You might remember, China was the very first region, which was
hit the hardest in Q1, but we truly had what the textbook would call a sharp V-shape recovery. So
the proportionate operating result of our Chinese joint ventures came in at EUR3.6 billion,
certainly not reaching up to the EUR4.4 billion in 2019. Just to remind all of us, the operating profit
of the joint venture companies is not included in the operating profit of the Volkswagen Group.
Their profits are recognized at equity in the financial result on a proportionate basis.
Volkswagen Financial Services, the entire division ended up with sales revenue going up 1.5% to
EUR40.8 billion, consequently, the number of contracts also have been increased by 1.8% to more
than 24 million contracts. As we speak, the penetration rate, the share of the business financial
services support has been increased by another percentage point to 35.5%, particularly the used
vehicle business turned out to be strong. The operating profit ended up to be EUR3 billion, only
6.2% down. Yes, we had increased risk costs. Again, ladies and gentlemen, you know us quite
well, we took a very prudent approach, again, and we had no issues with residual values, which
we certainly appreciate.
Let's now take a closer look at the financial result for the Group, which came in, in total at EUR2
billion, up EUR600 million from calendar year 2019. Let's start with the equity accounted
investments, which came in at EUR2.8 billion, obviously, down EUR600 million versus prior year,
just simply due to lower profits from the Chinese joint ventures. The interest result at minus
EUR1.5 billion, EUR100 million better due to lower interest expenses. And the other financial resultat EUR0.7 billion, EUR1.1 billion higher than a year ago. And we are a proud shareholder in
QuantumScape, and their listing is the reason why we had the positive non-cash effect in the
financial result of EUR1.4 billion, which drove the improvement in the other financial result. We
should keep in mind, share prices are very volatile. That is also true for QuantumScape. So we
don't know yet what the valuation effect in Q1 '21 will possibly be.
Cash is king, but also let's take first a look at the total P&L for calendar year 2020. At EUR10.6
billion, the operating profit before special items for calendar year 2020 exceeded the
expectations we all had in April, May 2020 significantly, and you'll find here the summary of the
key top financials. If you are interested in more details for the fourth quarter, please refer to our
Investor Relations website.
Now cash is king, what I already talked about, the reported net cash flow came in at strong,
EUR6.4 billion. Although we had lower profit before tax, minus EUR6.2 billion versus the prior year.
And we also had EUR600 million higher cash outflows for the diesel issue. But we did rigorous
working capital management, particularly lower inventories and lower receivables that help us and
significantly reduce spending on CapEx, minus EUR2.9 billion. That's another good proof point,
how different the calendar year has turned out in 2020 to be for us. Net cash flow in H1 was minus
EUR5 billion and in H2 plus EUR11 billion, so a huge swing also on the cash side.
We also report clean cash flow, which is basically the adjustment for the cash outflows for the
exceptional item, diesel, which were EUR2.5 billion negative. And also, we separate the M&A
effects, which added up to EUR1 billion, so the year was closed with a strong EUR10 billion clean
debt cash flow, and we are very proud of that number.
That certainly has a good impact on the net liquidity of our automotive division, which came in at
EUR26.8 billion, even up 26% from a good number the previous year. Beside, obviously, the
positive net cash flow development, other determining factors was the issuance of hybrid bonds.
So we increased hybrid capital by EUR3 billion, and we paid a dividend to our shareholders, it
totaled up to minus EUR2.4 billion, and we also did to squeeze out that Audi, which will have
positive impact in the long run, but did cost us EUR200 million on the cash side. So automotive's
net liquidity, in total, EUR26.8 billion is extremely solid and is up EUR5.5 billion.
But that is not all what is important, certainly, to our shareholders. Let's talk about the dividend.
The earnings attributable to Volkswagen AG shareholders are adding up to EUR8.3 billion. This is
related to the individual shares worth EUR16.60 per ordinary share and EUR16.66 per preferred
share. Despite corona, ladies and gentlemen, we achieved a solid result in calendar year 2020.
The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board, therefore, proposing to our shareholders
an unchanged dividend of EUR4.80 per ordinary share and EUR4.86 per preferred share. That
leads, if we added up to a payout ratio of 29%, quite significantly up from the 18.1% a year ago.
And we are clearly approaching our payout target ratio of 30%.
Let me come to my closing and the summary. The figures for calendar year 2020 clearly prove,
ladies and gentlemen, the Volkswagen Group is robust and performs even under very difficult
market conditions. We are capable to finance our transformation, and we deem that to be of
extreme importance. We have a very strong momentum from H2 of calendar year 2022 -- 2020,
sorry, which we will carry over into this calendar year. We have programs for fixed costs and
procurement, and they are going to make us even more robust going forward, and we certainly,
ladies and gentlemen, will strive for the upper end of the range for the return on sales in calendar
year 2020.Ladies and gentlemen, my term as CFO is coming to an end in due course. I'm looking forward to
spend more time with my family, with my wife and my kids, and I'm very, very happy to hand over
to `Arno Antlitz, Incoming Chief Financial Officer, somebody I and you already know for years and Arno, particularly from his
assignment at Volkswagen Passenger Cars and Audi.
Thanks to all of you, for your support and your feedback during these, honestly, not so easy last
5.5 years. I'm very grateful for the opportunity, which was given to me. I wish Arno and the new
Board of Management, a lot of success.
Arno, it's now your turn to please shed more light on us for what you have in the books for
calendar year '21 and for your plans going forward. Arno, the stage is yours.
`Arno Antlitz, Incoming Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you very much, Frank. Yes. First of all, Frank, thank you for your kind words and also for all
the support and the excellent collaboration throughout all the years we've worked together. I also
very much appreciate the robust financial foundation that you are handing over to me.
Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it's an honor for me that the Supervisory Board has put their trust in
me as Group CFO. I'm really looking forward to steering the Volkswagen Group through the
transformation together with the whole Board team.
I'm deeply convinced that Volkswagen has the technological competence, the financial strengths,
the right people and the values to shape mobility for generations to come. Herbert and Frank
have already described what we have achieved in 2020. And now I would like to turn the focus to
2021 and beyond.
Our goal is to finance the business transformation of our Group. For this, we need robust
earnings and cash flows. This is very clear. Our strategic targets are defined, and we will stick to
them. Our target is to achieve a return on sales in the range of 7% to 8% in 2025 at the latest and
to generate at least EUR10 billion of clean cash flow.
Let's now take a closer look to our outlook and for our guidance on 2021. We've guided for a
return on sales in the range of 5% to 6.5%. But rest assured, we are striving for the upper-end.
For clean cash flow, we are sticking to our strategic target of greater than EUR10 billion. To get
there, we need strong sales momentum, commitment to our BEF ramp up and continued strong
cost and investment discipline.
Strong working capital management is also key. I've just mentioned strong cost discipline, but be
assured, we will make no compromise when it comes to the necessary investment in future
technologies. For that reason, we have guided for R&D around 7%. This is a reflection of our
execution of our BEV strategy and of building up our software competence. And in relation to
CapEx, we will continue our strict disciplined approach and are guiding for around 6%. And it's our
goal to stay well below this figure.
It's still early days in 2021, and 2021 is not risk-free. Our level of achievement depends on how the
worldwide COVID pandemic situation develops and the level of pace of recovery. And there's a
further risk regarding sufficient supply of semiconductors for the entire automotive industry. We
are striving to keep the operating impact of current undersupply of semiconductors as low as
possible and to compensate them as far as possible during the remainder of the year.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take the opportunity to lay out my priorities for the years to
come. I've two very clear strategic goals as CFO. First, financially steer the transformation. Thisincludes allocation and shifting of resources and capital towards electrification, digitalization and
mobility services. Our second goal is to safeguard and further strengthen our financial foundation.
To achieve these two goals, we will focus on six major topics: first, product transformation
towards electric; second, digitalization and developing further our software stack; topic number
three, capturing Group-wide synergies between brands. I'm deeply convinced group-wide
synergies provide a unique source of competitive advantage for us. Topic number four, steering
Group-wide cost and efficiency programs to finance the transformation; number five,
strengthening brand positioning and pricing, and everything we do will be based on our integrity
and values.
We are fully committed to continuing to transform the company. On the left side of the chart, you
see our investment in terms of R&D and CapEx in each five-year planning round. You also see the
share of allocation of investments in new technologies, BEV software services. Each planning
around, we increased the share, and we will continue to do so.
The question is, whether this is ambitious enough? We think it's extremely ambitious. By 2025, we
expect our sales of battery vehicles to amount up to 20% of our total fleet, and we will see an
increase each year beyond 2025. In the meantime, the ICE business will help to generate the
cash flows necessary to fund the transformation.
We are ambitious in our transformation. We will offer around 50 BEV models until 2030. And
combined with the shift in result allocation, we will transform this company to a leading tech
player in our industry. These ambitious plans need to be financed. Therefore, we need to keep
overhead costs under tight control.
In the past, our fixed costs grew over time. This is not necessarily a problem for a company that is
growing, but for various reasons, our overhead costs grew faster than our sales, and we want to
reverse this trend. We are convinced that a lower fixed cost base is necessary to improve our
competitive position and to finance our future. Therefore, we want to reduce fixed costs without
R&D and CapEx until 2023 by 5% versus a defined base in 2020. This equals a reduction of
around EUR2 billion. In this cost base, we have included general overhead costs in our
headquarters, indirect costs in our plants worldwide, all the budgets of our national sales
companies, including marketing spend, to name some examples.
Taking the year 2019 as a more normalized base, the program target implies a reduction of
around 10%. We also communicated that we intend to reduce material costs by 7% by 2023. Later
this year, Murat Aksel will give a deep dive to explain his strategic approach and the financial
impact of that.
Ladies and gentlemen, Volkswagen is a bundle of some of the most fascinating, powerful and
valuable brands in our industry. Without a doubt, strong individual brands will remain a
differentiating factor going forward. We will strive to even better position our brands in the future,
draw synergies where possible and work hard on cost and efficiency for the good of our
customers and stakeholders.
At the same time, we need to transform ourselves into a unified technology and mobility service
group. This means that we need to shift our focus also towards value drivers like unified software
stack, BEV platforms and autonomous driving, to name a few. Our internal decision-making and
capital allocation will be geared towards this goal. Step-by-step, we will complement our current
planning and steering of individual brand performance with focus along these value drivers, BEV
platforms, software stack, battery, energy and charging and mobility platform and automatedLadies and gentlemen, we have a clear plan. We will scale our BEV platforms. We are going to
develop a leading automotive software stack, and we will continue to invest in autonomous
driving and mobility services. During this transition, our traditional business will help to generate
the profit and cash flows to do so.
We are convinced that based on these unique opportunities and a solid financial basis, we will be
a leader in the transformation of our industry, we will preserve our natural resources, and we will
achieve this with integrity and based on our values. We are looking forward to this task. Thank you
very much.
`Nicole Mommsen, Head of Global Group Communications `
Thank you, Herbert, Frank and Arno. We have heard from Herbert that Volkswagen will be
counting on strong platforms to tap into future profit pools. We have learned from Frank, why
Volkswagen was able to manage the COVID year 2020 relatively well. And Arno has presented
his outlook for this year and given us some insight into his agenda for 2021 and the years beyond.
Now it's time for your questions. We are switching to German because most journalists who've
dialed in are from Germany today. Of course, you can also ask your questions in English.
Questions And Answers
A - `Nicole Mommsen, Head of Global Group Communications `
(Operator Instructions) Now we will come to the question-and-answer session. We have
Christoph Steitz from Reuters to begin with Mr. Steitz. Please ask your question. That seems to be
taking a moment. Then, we'll move on to Jan Schwartz from Reuters. He would like to know what
financial impacts the ship shortage is expected to happen this year and how long the bottleneck
is expected to persist.
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
I'll be answering the question in German. So it's Mr. Diess. The situation is a little bit unclear due to
the weather conditions in the United States. For the entire year, it's not possible to say what the
situation will be. With hybrid size [ph] plug-ins, we have production of around 100,000. We won't
be able to make up the backlog. We're going to do everything we can in order to mitigate the
impact to the greatest degree possible. But to quantify the estimate, perhaps I'll hand over to
Frank for this part.
A - `Frank Witter, Chief Financial Officer `
It's important that in -- I think we'll be able to catch up a little bit in the second half of the year, but
it's a complex situation. You've got long preparation chart with the manufacturing, but we've tried
to do whatever we can, and I do believe that there will be an impact. However, I do believe that
we'll be able to limit the impact. But the second half of the year will be extremely important. We'll
have to try and recover from this. It's a topic that we'll have to deal with for most of the year,
particularly in the first half of the year. I think it's reflected in our guidance.
A - `Nicole Mommsen, Head of Global Group Communications `
Now, we have another question from Jan Schwartz. A lot has been assessed about the
suspension of the administration of the AstraZeneca vaccine and also about a third wave of the
coronavirus. What kind of impact will these news have on your outlook for 2021?A - `Arno Antlitz, Incoming Chief Financial Officer `
The answer now. Of course, it's far too early to say. But we believe that we'll be able to maintain
our guidance. We learned a lot in the year 2020. We set up teams, task forces. Production was
being very closely towards demand, and this is something that benefited us in the second half of
the year. And based on what we know today, we are anticipating that we'll be able to maintain
our guidance. But of course, it's impossible to say precisely what's going to happen with the
pandemic.
A - `Nicole Mommsen, Head of Global Group Communications `
Thank you very much, Mr. Antlitz. We also have a question from James Attwood. He is from
Haymarket in the United Kingdom, Autocar. He is asking about the SSP platform and also about
whether it will replace the existing platforms, and he would like to know what kind of impact this
will have on the factories.
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
Now on to the answer. The SSP platform will replace the existing platform, but over a long period
of time, which means that the start-up will begin with Artemis, so 2024, 2025. Now it shouldn't be
something which could be seen as something brand new. What we're taking is what we've got
with the MEB will have cost improvements. As you will know, standardization of the battery is
going to play a significant role. And of course, this goes hand-in-hand with a new electronic
architecture, which is going to provide much greater computing power and add more software to
the vehicles. But the SSP will eventually be the single backbone for the Group. We're speaking
about beyond 2035 here.
A - `Nicole Mommsen, Head of Global Group Communications `
Thank you very much. We also have a question from Daniel Swick from Dworld [ph]. Mr. Swick, you
need to be on the line. I hope that this will work.
Q - Unidentified Participant
I hope you can hear me. This is the question now. I have two questions. Firstly, what was the
savings effect generated by costs [ph] like short time working hours? Next, with the stock price,
do you plan on spinning off Porsche with an IPO? Now EUR200 is the share price now, by the way.
What do you think of that?
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
And answer to the question now. Perhaps you, Frank can speak to begin with this about the
business travel that's reduced.
A - `Frank Witter, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, I would like -- well, the thing is, we are very, very happy about the share price performance,
I'd like to say this to begin with, but we need to exactly -- we made it clear the potential in the
company. We're not going to say anything about speculation. As you will have seen, if you look at
the some of the parts, then, of course, we did not remain unimpacted because -- some of it's
probably higher than market capitalization. Now of course, furlough and also business travel,
things that were reduced, at the moment, not much spending -- we didn't have any big spending,
business travel has significantly reduced. I think fixed cost for passenger cars improved by EUR3.8contributions also came from other areas as well, which is why it was a well concerted action
overall.
And hope we'll be able to end the furlough scheme now, but it doesn't necessarily mean that
we're going to be able to produce what we need to produce. I think that the new world is
probably going to be somewhere between the old world and the current world. I don't think
there's going to be as much travel, but I do think that it makes sense that it does have a certain
value to meet people face-to-face because we are present in a number of different countries,
which is why we will certainly be traveling more than we did during the pandemic when barely
anybody traveled. But I don't think it will return to the levels that we had pre-pandemic. So this is
something where Arno could probably make a few decisions. But that won't be the decisive
factor when it comes to fixed costs.
A - `Nicole Mommsen, Head of Global Group Communications `
Okay. Now we have the next question from `Henning Krogh, Analyst, Business Insider from Business Insider. Mr. Krogh?
Q - `Henning Krogh, Analyst, Business Insider
I would like to say hello from Hamburg. Mr. Diess, China is and remains the most important single
market for the Volkswagen Group. We can see that you've got Audi there in the premium
segment. You said that with the volume, but you've also spoken -- spoken about the different
segments. Is there any room for SKODA left here? Because you covered it quite well with
passenger cars, the Jetta for example. So I'd like to know what your opinion is on SKODA. Is it a
brand that we will be more -- we're focusing on in other markets? So I'd just like to know about
your geographic positioning of the different brands.
Now I have a question for you, Mr. Antlitz, you would have watched the VW Power Day yesterday.
Now there were lots of gentlemen know who were giving presentations yesterday. There was a
lady. So one lady and the rest of them were gentlemen. So that's a very small number of women
poorly represented. So no look at Audi for it -- not about Audi. There were two women on the
Board. Now you are going to be Chief Financial Officer. Are you going to increase the
representation of women here, particularly in areas of the future such as e-mobility, for example,
or software? If it is the case, could you be specific about this?
Now my third and final question, how likely is the IAA Passenger Cars will take place this
September? Thank you very much from Hamburg.
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
So SKODA in China, to answer your question. Now, SKODA is one of our core brands. Now, it's
positioned differently in China as it is Europe. Now in Europe -- now SKODA in recent months has
admittedly not had an easy time because in China, a certain level of consolidation is taking place.
Smaller brands, which are represented in this huge market, I think they have a market share of
around 1% and having great difficulties. That said, SKODA with its foundation of our factories, and
also with the modular platform, it has a very good starting point. It is continually working on
improving its positioning when it comes to new model. SKODA is being electrified. Now, we do
have somebody working on SKODA in China, but we're also looking to improve it.
Now SKODA has a number of other tasks that it is facing of overall responsibility for the Russian
market. I think that SKODA certainly has everything that is necessary to succeed in China, but I do
admit the last few months and years weren't particularly easy for SKODA. The new approach in
SKODA is globally in the volume segment, a huge success. And the volume segment was -- wehad huge gains in market share, a great cost base. We heard about the figures, 10% in volume
segment. And for this reason, we believe that SKODA can also be a success in China, given its
success elsewhere in the world.
Now, the IAA trade fair. Well, we are committed to organizing the event. The VDA is convinced
that it will be able to take place. We will make our contribution to the event and we do expect
that we'll be able to hold the IAA in Munich, and we are preparing for it.
Now about female representation, I'll hand over to Mr. Antlitz. Yes, you spoke about Audi. You're
also head of the Head of the Supervisory Board there.
A - `Arno Antlitz, Incoming Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, we've got a great Board of management team at Audi. I'm looking forward to working with
my colleagues here in Wolfsburg as well. And I would say that overall, we are aiming to improve
female representation throughout the company, particularly in management positions, especially
when it comes to the new areas of technology. Now I think -- well, Mr. Diess mentioned the
Supervisory Board. Now of course, you said that this is something that the supervisory Board has
to deal with. But we are trying to improve the female headcount throughout the entire company.
A - `Nicole Mommsen, Head of Global Group Communications `
Thank you very much. Let's take a question from Bill Boston, Wall Street Journal. He has asked
about the e-ramp-up in the United States and the plans for Chattanooga and ID.4 and projects
after that?
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
Now, we're going to answer in German here. Now, we've made a strong commitment in the
United States and our team has suggested this also rightly. So, Scott Keogh has a powerful team
and we have all the trust in him. Good recovery of the brand also in the US after diesel, because
we had a 30% diesel share on the American markets that major loss of the image and trust and
customers there but we've come back, it's enjoying a good reputation of brand, good market
shares, good brand portfolio, model portfolio. And we've also make forward looking
commitments in the US. So yes, indeed, we are building the probably largest fast-charge network
in the United States in that market and has also had decision to establish a battery cell production
including suppliers and our factory in Chattanooga will be made ready for electric vehicles, the
ID.4 is going to launch that which is going to be built in China and Europe. So it will first be
imported to the US, and then after '22, it will be built in the US. So that's a strong commitment. It's
investments to the tunes of billions of euros.
So, we see that also that the US administration under Joe Biden is following up on that strategy,
focusing on IMO, but it's that we believe, yes, this is the right time, this is a good investment,
which has consolidated our position. Now, brand-wise, Scott Keogh is an important brand
manager, because he has been driving Audi for 10 years and has brought Audi to the reputable
situation it's now in. And thanks for electrification. This gives us a major opportunity to give
radiance to that brand.
Very important product for the year to come is the Audi bus. Now that, I should say, it really is an
icon on the American market because this is how the Volkswagen, partially Vanagon has been to
truly an icon, and we're planning to release that vehicle now on the US market. We will be building
over though and I think it's a good product portfolio. And all of our product portfolio of electricvehicles is available, but it's also true that in the next weeks and months, we are going to think
about launching more electric vehicles in the United States. Mr. Antlitz, am I right?
A - `Arno Antlitz, Incoming Chief Financial Officer `
Yes.
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
All right. And there is a follow-up question by Bill Boston here. And he asked about the
transformation on the group's assets, because he mentioned Lamborghini, Bugatti, Ducati, but
also Porsche and how they are positioning themselves and what future outlook those brands
have, he would like to know.
The answer is that, I think we have seen a good allocation of brands within our group because our
decision was to take Bugatti to Porsche and then into a minority shareholding together with an E-
car producer, a very competent one, mind you. And we believe that Bugatti -- the Bugatti brand
will get an environment that is actually stronger than being here in Wolfsburg in the volume
segment. We have more synergies over there, carbon fiber bodies, high performance batteries.
So it's in better hands over there.
And it's also our decision to pool our premium portfolio at Audi together with (inaudible) and
Markus Duesmann. We have a lot of premium experience in that brand and great passion and
commitment. Markus Duesmann is a passionate motorbike driver and also sports car driver. So all
that means that Audi really is a competence center now for our premium and new segment
Lamborghini, Bentley, which is very important, and Ducati in that as well.
Audi is just re-organizing itself to ensure lean management of those brands, leveraging all the
synergies for our group which is banking on platforms going forward, as you have heard in our
earlier statements. We believe this is a good allocation of responsibilities. I think the brands we
have are very valuable. Lamborghini has developed really well over the past year, so we're talking
about double-digit profitability rates, the younger customers than Ferrari has and better product
portfolio we believe than Ferrari is developing really well.
In terms of Bentley, the company as a brand has recovered financially, and thanks to the
synergies with Audi and Bentley. And the new platforms, Artemis and SSP will allow us to pool
synergies in such a way that Bentley will be bouncing back to double figures of profitability and
that's very important for Bentley in the premium segment. But we are upbeat about it. We
believe this is the right structure for our group.
Thank you. Our next question is `Christiaan Hetzner, Analyst, Automotive News Europe from Automotive News Europe. Mr. Hetzner,
you have the floor.
Q - `Christiaan Hetzner, Analyst, Automotive News Europe
Good morning. Thank you very much. I have two questions. Number one on semiconductors and
the bottlenecks we're having that. Could you say that such critical components like
semiconductors are probably coming from parts of the world that are not very consolidating the
supply chain? Wouldn't you rethink your strategy that possibly have critical components like
semiconductors build elsewhere in the world, mainly in Europe? And then also a question on
vertical integration with the -- integration of (inaudible) and we have partners that also operate
your battery factories with. And something you did not mention is, how do you secure supplies of
battery materials, raw materials like lithium? Do you have supply arrangements, agreementsalready with commodity suppliers with your new battery factories or Tesla as we've heard is
going to source lithium from Nevada in the US. So what do you -- what's your take on that?
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
I'll answer. Well, absolutely valid point to make. I mean, we must say that commodity hedging for
us has always been a major priority. We never ordered exclusively with our first tier suppliers,
especially when we talk about rarest[ph] materials, palladium, platinum. So, we have always had
to direct delivery contacts, also brought individual deliveries forward in order to compensate for
cyclical changes in the market. But you're right when you say that we need to do more on the
semiconductor side, hitherto we had lifted true Bosch and Continental in our first tier suppliers.
So, in the future, the critical semiconductors and the relevant volumes will be sourced directly in
the future with our second tier and third tier suppliers. At least this is what we want to negotiate
with them, and then going forward, we hope that also in critical situations we can secure
suppliers.
And yes, you are right, for new commodities that we need for battery production in the past
years, we've looked into those, talk about lithium here and nickel. We want to consolidate our
sourcing position. We have long-term contracts also with raw materials companies, but it's
certainly true with the rollout of more e-mobility, that will be more relevant than ever. Our
colleague Murat Aksel is currently in the process of establishing the right setup of competencies
and skills.
And just a follow-up, you also talked about citing factories in Europe. I don't think that's an easy
thing to do, especially semiconductor production is a global industry. Different technologies used
in other parts of the world. Now we have bottlenecks now with a 54-nanometer semiconductors
that are usually also used in consumer electronics. So, establishing and building up a new and
exclusive automotive supply chain for Europe is probably not going to happen, it's not going to
work, it's not going to be efficient either. So, I think we need to make sure that there is plenty of
redundancy in the system, and semiconductor suppliers will continue to be a global market in the
future as well.
A - `Nicole Mommsen, Head of Global Group Communications `
Thank you. Now, we have Chris Hallberg from . Mr. Hallberg, the floor is yours.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Yeah, good morning, (Foreign Language) I'm calling from Frankfurt. I'm on the English call, getting
the English translation here.
The group in the past have also more economies of scale (inaudible) (Multiple Speakers) than
others that didn't have the MQB and the MEB, but you couldn't provide or increase the
profitability the way you want to do in the past. Why was that in the past or how can you make
sure that going forward with these scalable platform, the SSP, you will be boosting your
profitability more than you did in the past? So, that's number one.
Number two, are you planning to sell more shares to Traton? I mean the market is a difficult one,
because of the small free float. So, can you update us on Traton and what you are planning to do
going forward?
And a final follow up, because I wasn't (Technical Difficulty) the translation earlier. Have you
confirmed that you're planning to transfer Bugatti to Rimac?A - `Nicole Mommsen, Head of Global Group Communications `
Mr. Hallberg, you will have to repeat your last questions. We couldn't quite hear you. We had
some technology glitches here. I didn't quite hear you. Can you repeat?
Q - Unidentified Participant
Yes. (Technical Difficulty)
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
Again. Can you confirm what we said before? I didn't quite get the translation earlier.
A - `Nicole Mommsen, Head of Global Group Communications `
The question is, are you transferring Bugatti to Rimac? That was the question.
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I'll start with the last one. Transferring to Rimac is not true. Porsche is currently preparing a
partnership that is going to be under discussion with Rimac, and Porsche will be taken care of
that, but the whole thing is not yet finalized. What we want to do is that to transition responsibility
of Bugatti to Porsche and Porsche in all probability will establish a joint venture with Rimac with a
minority share of Porsche.
The platform question, Mr. Albert, I do not share your view that because I think that Volkswagen's
platforms are an important building block of the Volkswagen success story. Also the earlier
platforms designed under Mr. PH, the PQ platforms rolled out globally, that led to today's
strength of Volkswagen, not only financial strength, mind you, but also the product substance.
If you look at the Gulf today and the related products like the Skoda Octavia, the SEAT Leon and
the Audi A3, all of these are based on the MQB platform, second generation. And they still are
clearly superior as products in the market. Don't just look at the cost effect really, but also at the
technical competence of those platforms for Volkswagen. And for the group brands, the
platforms have made sure that we roll out technologically superior concepts at a competitive
price tag, and we believe that is continued to -- is going to be the case again for the new MQB
for the PPE and then finally the SSP platform.
But something that was always something we needed to discuss about is how many platforms
does a single group need. We believe that the different duration of different concepts,
longitudinal engines, (Technical Difficulty) engines, rear wheel drive platforms, front-wheel drive
(Multiple Speakers) engines were using 80% of the ultimate sector, is no longer that relevant
because all new platforms have a battery skate board with (Foreign Language).
There were two components to it. We have global targets for all of the different brands and units.
And the brands are responsible for the implementation of the program, but we also want to
utilize synergies within the group. So, with the fixed cost potential, we've got fixed cost potential
within the brands, but the what is going to happen is that the brands will look for fixed cost
reduction potential. So, there might be one brand which looks more closely the planning for other
brands and this is a plan, which started in parallel, across the different brands. And Volkswagen
has made a big step here as a brand.
A - `Nicole Mommsen, Head of Global Group Communications `We also have a call from Nick who is on the line for us.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Hello, can you hear me?
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, we can hear you.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Okay. Thank you. My name is (Technical Difficulty). Yeah, thank you for taking my question. I have
two questions. And 15% of global sales mean that you will produce around 6 million battery
electric vehicles by 2030. So the current capacity is 1 million units. So how do you plan to increase
this? And on the other hand, you have to reduce that surplus employment in a socially
responsible manner. Could you give us the outlook of this?
And second question is a big question, that is, Volkswagen is making a big commitment to
battery electric vehicles. So what do you think would happen if you don't commit to battery
electric vehicle or if you would stay open to all technology, including hybrid vehicle and (Technical
Difficulty) et cetera? Thank you.
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
We've set a 50% electric vehicles by 2030. I think this is a well-founded estimate. And if you look
at the fleet targets that are being discussed as part of the Green Deal, this will mean that we will
probably have more than 50%, maybe 55% or 60%. This is probably what we'll need, but there
are other technologies that could play a role here, but this will -- the trend on the funding
environment. Now in a year, if we do have plug-in hybrids, are the plug-in hybrids only work where
they are subsidized. In the US, they don't play a role. And in some of the European markets, they
don't really play a role as well, which is why we do anticipate the key approach for reducing CO2
emissions will be electric vehicles.
We do not believe that there are any real alternatives to this, and we also believe that where you
have a charging infrastructure where customers can enjoy the benefits of electric vehicles, this is
where we have a lot of potential. So, mobility, we need to have a cheaper individual mobility, the
more expensive movement individually, this is possible and there were several reasons for this.
We believe that by 2030, we will have a significant increase in electro mobility. We expect a share
of 50%. Of course, this will depend on several different factors. So, for example, the subsidiary
situation at the re-subsidies, how the government deals with the prospect of electric vehicles
funding, et cetera.
Now, the drivetrain concepts will be hybridization. So there will also be break energy recuperation.
These technologies that we've already rolled out, there were 48-volt systems and also some
high voltage systems. It is not going to be the key means of reducing CO2 emissions, which
means that when it comes to electric vehicles, the second question, what was it about here?
Q - Unidentified Participant
About the headcounts.
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `Now this is something, which has been sort of a little bit and probably exaggerated. Now, we
spoke to the Fraunhofer Institutes, a center in the vehicle factories, the impact will be quite small.
We will be able to offset this with fluctuation. Of course, electric vehicles require a lower
headcount in the vehicle factories, but this is something that we can deal with.
Now, the major change would take place with the powertrains. But one thing that's important to
know is that the powertrain, when it comes to jobs in the automotive industry, is not that
significant because you've got a high level of automation here. And if you think about engines,
the individual engine parts, either large cast parts and there's a high level of automation involve,
which means that the headcount isn't particularly high in this area.
So, maybe you know 10%, 15% of the headcount is involved here. Nothing else will change. If you
look at the other revenues, if you look at the steering system, axles, electronics, seats, the
interior, all of this will remain the same. So I think that the impacts on a job is often exaggerated. I
think that because -- I think there was actually probably more like it should be positive effects,
which is why I assume that when the MEB is rolled out particularly in Northern Germany, we also
have a higher share of self-produced parts when it comes to the electrical components. We also
get (inaudible) as well. We believe that it will actually lead to job security and in fact even an
increase in the head count in Lower Saxony and in Northern Germany.
A - `Frank Witter, Chief Financial Officer `
Let me just add something here. As Mr. Diess said, now I think -- believe the impact is negligible
today. But this is something that's been looked at in our programs. All of the different brands
have set of programs. Audi has for example. Audi (Technical Difficulty) future is the name of it.
Volkswagen also has a future back to which it introduced at a very early stage with a roadmap for
the transformation, which means that the headcount effects that is anticipated, it is -- it has been
taken into account into the brands programs.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you very much.
Operator
We have `Marco Eigenmann, Analyst, GVA from GVA. Mr. Eigenmann, please.
Q - `Marco Eigenmann, Analyst, GVA `
So I would like to go back to a topic that you mentioned earlier. You said that in the next few
years, you want to finance the electric initiative. Mr. Nicole is also leaving the company and he
spoke about the year 2026. He said maybe 2040 will be the end of the combustion engine, but
what's your view on this?
Another question, with the CO2 emissions, you are above the level that you said in January. You
said anymore provision is going to be made this, is it possible?
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
No provisions will be required for this. We are optimistic that we will meet the CO2 targets. It is
even possible that we might be lower.
At the end of the combustion engine, I think, Audi said that from 2023 that it want to develop any
more combustion engine vehicles. What we like to say is we operate globally and you have to befrank here. In several regions throughout the world, electric vehicles are probably not going to be
the solution for reducing CO2 emissions. This might apply to India where they only have coal-
powered energy. Now maybe at last in Latin America as well, which seems to me looking at
biofuels with ethanol as a means of reducing CO2 emissions and here power generation is
mainly coal based, which is why it's important to bear in mind that the combustion engine will
have a different life spend depending on the different regions.
And electrification is not going to generate the desired CO2 emission reductions in all different
regions equally. And for this reason, we need to keep our options open. There are model
platforms that are ongoing in these countries and it's anticipated that they will (inaudible) to run
beyond 2035 and it will make sense from an economic and also from an environmental
perspective, which is why we have not set a specific target for season production of combustion
engines.
A - `Nicole Mommsen, Head of Global Group Communications `
Thank you. Then, we go to the China[ph] portal we have (inaudible) from New York Times, who
asked about QuantumScape and also the technology and how QuantumScape is scalable as a
technology.
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
The answer. Yes, we are committed with a stake in QuantumScape, and we are supporting
developments as closely as we can. And we continue to believe that QuantumScape is the most
promising engagement, because this will help the solid state batteries to prevail and also the
capital market support that optimism. And then obviously it's important because it will improve
battery technology going forward. And in France, we also collaborate with QuantumScape, but
still having said that, it's not true that we can say now at what time -- point in time solid state
batteries can be rolled out because we don't have production at vacations. I mean in lab testing,
they work really well, the membranes work well. But we're looking at concept and an
industrialized solution for solid state. And obviously, we are collaborating, we're helping, but in
exactly defined time of when they will roll out, we cannot give you, but we still and continue to
believe that solid state battery should be the main research focus to make batteries safer and
more powerful.
So, we support -- continue to support our commitment in QuantumScape, that's rock solid.
A - `Nicole Mommsen, Head of Global Group Communications `
Then we have Young Schreiber[ph] from AFP, and he is asking about software development.
Because you said that 60% will be in-house software development going forward which elements
of the software you want to do in-house and which one would you like to develop with partners?
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
Answer. This is a good question, why are we doing it ourselves in the first place? If we need to
update and continue to develop software because vehicles of the future will need to see
software deployed in the car, a car needs to be regularly updated while the car is operating on
the road and this is why we cannot develop software or configure software across different
stages tested and then install a hardware into the car. Instead, and this goes back to your earlier
question, everything that's critical for the functionality of the car on the software, which needs to
be critically tested, should be the core competence of Volkswagen, including the operating
system and things where mistakes may happen, where errors can be made. We have to be surethat our device, if it is in the customer's hand, always has the right software on board, but there's
also a second arrow to that and I think you would have understood it in our earlier presentations,
because we believe that autonomous driving will evolve, and therefore, this is going to be a
major USB, be a major differentiator. Hence, we are committed in our software organization
about half of what we do in the car software goes into automated driving and we're going to
build up more expertise there as well.
Now, this is about the big loop process. What that means is, how do we analyze camera images,
and then on that basis, establish a neural network that is self learning? We believe this is a core
competence. This we should have on our page and we also need a definition competence for
hardware. Well, that means the computer kernels that will be a hallmark of future vehicles, we
should do that and this needs to be done here.
60% is a good target there. Not every single app needs to be developed ourselves. Now, when
we go to system integration for brake or steering systems, we don't necessarily need to do that
on our own, but the core of the software must be our in-house competence.
A - `Nicole Mommsen, Head of Global Group Communications `
Thank you. We now have a question from Spain by Danny Caldeirao. Interesting question. It says
our plans for electrification in Spain, decarbonization and also supporting the EU Green Deal
hinge on the decision by the European Union to provide support as well. What does that mean in
actual terms? Do we assume that Spain is going to see more subsidies than we would get in
other plans and other development facilities for battery cell production? So, do you expect more
of different approaches in Spain than in the rest of Europe?
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
Answer, the question here refers to the European funding rules that are depending on the
regions. So, in highly developed regions, that development funding is rather low with small
percentages. Now, if we cite a production for battery cell production also, vehicle production in
Eastern Europe, we could claim up to 30% or 35% of public support, public grounds. Now, Tesla
has received, I mean that's in the public domain has received an amount of billions of euros for
battery facility near Berlin, but our decision for Spain is a positive one. We already have two
production plants for vehicles in Spain. We have components production in Spain as well. And
also, we believe that smaller vehicles like the A0 class, the Polo or the T-cross could be really well
industrialized in that country.
Having said that, we need the same conditions that our competitors enjoy. So I'm saying that this
is a responsibility that the Spanish government has taken on board and that we're happy to
support, but now, we also need the commitment on the part of the European Union to make sure
that we can also use the money, the funds from the EU recovery fund to convert our material
plant where we expect EUR2.4 billion to be the price tag.
So these are open questions as we speak, but I'm very confident and also the Spanish
government is very committed. And Europe in fact is very interested in Spain overcoming this
crisis, and we do anything we can and we're going to provide assistance to make sure that we
continue to commit ourselves to Spanish plans.
A - `Nicole Mommsen, Head of Global Group Communications `
Thank you. We have another question by Bill Boston, a follow-up question on lithium mining.
Because Tesla has made an announcement that they're going to invest into lithium mining, doyou have similar plans is the question?
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
Answer. We are talking to different lithium suppliers globally, including Spain. There are lithium
deposits in Spain that are to be mined. So rest assured, we have a good understanding of where
lithium mines are in this world and we do anything we can to hedge lithium supplies there. A
number of MoUs have been signed with lithium manufacturers, producers in order to minimize
the risk and also we have delivery guarantees there in order to manage risks related to
commodities.
A - `Nicole Mommsen, Head of Global Group Communications `
Thank you. We have Christoph Steitz again from Reuters coming into the portal. Mr. Diess, is the
share size of Volkswagen an advantage or rather a disadvantage in your transition plans? Or do
you see drawbacks in the size because it will hamper the speed of your transformation?
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
Answer. This is a valid point because size certainly is not an advantage for quick transformation.
We have realized and understood now that it's actually a strenuous process to establish the
software in the company and have to write backbones in the company. It takes a lot of talking and
discussion. But at the end of the day, it turns out to be an advantage. Why? Because all of the
new technologies that are forward focused are scalable. Software is a case in point. Software is
important, it's scalable. Hardware platforms are scalable and they are crucially important for our
future vehicle projects. And also operating a global manufacturing network has clear advantages
over what a start-up would be able to do. So, as both pros and cons, we must make sure that the
pros dominate, and with our current size and range, I think we've done a good business. We have
had seen a good start, good step of getting our software flying. And the speed with which we
proceed needs to be increased in some places, I would admit that. But there is no reason
whatsoever for us to say that our plan is not going to work.
And then in the long term, we have a major advantage because a software stack is a software
stack is a software stack. No matter whether you're on 1 million or 10 million or 15 million cars on
that software stack. So, the world leader, or the big global leaders always see significant
economies of scale in this new industrial world. It's like what I'd like to do is to compare ourselves
to the smartphone industry. That's not 10 or 20 different drivetrain technologies or software
versions. We will be one of the consolidators, we will be offering the platforms going forward to
make sure that we can play a role in that consolidated industry, and at the same time, maintain
our size and also increase it.
A - `Nicole Mommsen, Head of Global Group Communications `
Now I have Sebastian Schmid from (inaudible) who has asked about the launch problems of a
number of EVs. Now, launch ramp-up problems and delay of SOPs, why was that? He asks, is that
production related, is it software related, or is it semiconductor related?
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
Answer. What we have and this is one of the reasons as we have adopted a radical approach to
our EVs with a minimized or reduced computer architecture. In the MEB, there are only three
computer systems; corporate, if you will, from the group. And this was a major challenge for our
workforce to develop a new vehicle that is updated as it goes along and we have done a goodjob. I mean, yes, there have been a few delays here and there, but we managed to get the
vehicle started. We almost met emission targets. The situation is getting better and better as we
speak. ID vehicles will be updated over the year this year. So people driving those vehicles would
actually see that they get better and better. So, I think it's been worthwhile, it was a total forced,
no doubt about it. Our teams have been fighting hard (Foreign Language) as well, sometimes
spend days and nights and putting energy into that. Yes, it has been a forceful effort. But I think
we can truly say that we're doing better this year than we have been in the last couple of years. I
believe ramp-ups and launch project will be better and better.
I mean, the same way it has been harder for Tesla to scale up factories, for us it has been just as
difficult to get and perform on the level of good software management and software
development, but I think we're getting better. But there is one more thing. And if I may, I'd like to
add a notion here. Normally, software is developed from premium products. Audi would be
someone who does that and it's actually that reason why Audi is now in the lead of the car
software organization, because software is always differentiated in the premium segments and
then usually trickles them into the volume segments, but we couldn't do that for a number of
reasons. The diesel issue and other Audi problems, and now, Audi is back in the game and it's
contributing under that new leadership. So we believe we'll see a major boost of that.
The software groups from Audi and Volkswagen have already been merged. So therefore, I'm
quite upbeat that we're getting better and better. And then finally, this is in fact true also for
many startups in the industry who obviously position themselves really well, but they shouldn't
forget. This is not an easy way forward. Car making and automotive software is a very complex
issue.
A - `Nicole Mommsen, Head of Global Group Communications `
And now I have a short follow-up by Mr. Menzo[ph]. Software as a case in point will or would
Volkswagen also develop chips and chipsets for vehicles? I mean not produce, but probably
develop, that was his question.
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, especially in terms of autonomous driving, the design of computers and computer elements
is very important, and we are not the only ones to realize that because we've always had our say
in the future generation of Mobileye or in video image recognition chips, but maybe you are right,
we have to bring our definition competence back into the company and consolidate it, because
competitors are doing more, like Tesla. They're doing it really well, I should say.
A - `Nicole Mommsen, Head of Global Group Communications `
Now, we have one more question, and this relates to the unified cell, (inaudible) from the Auto
Motor Sport. If the unified cell is unified for the housing, where did the savings come from,
because for the value added is in the chemistries or not?
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
Now the answer. Yes, this is a very justified question. Now, the main savings are in fact in the -- is
in the chemistry. So the raw materials account for a large share of the cost, but there are also
certain processes. But, if you have a look at the -- look at what we said on battery day, there is a
new manufacturing method that we're thinking about, about the production of cathodes as you
can see this in the material as well. As originally, it won't only be material savings, but also processimprovements, we will surely require lower investment and this mean the batteries can be
produced and sold at a lower price.
One thing that shouldn't be forgotten, however, is that if you take different types of chemistry,
different cell formats, they all need to be tested, they all need to be approved, they need to be
checked in the vehicle, and this can lead to increased costs. So, an unified cell constitutes good
significant progress. And as we said yesterday, it will lead to much more competitive pricing,
which is why we are delighted. I think by 2025, it's clear what we want to do, but now for 2025 to
2030, I think we've clearly described what we want to do, standardization, et cetera, and this is
what we want to achieve.
Now, I just got one more question from (inaudible). Well, I think we actually answered this
question already, but he is asking about Porsche and a potential partial or full spin-off -- IPO spin-
off of Porsche that we've reported on a Manager Magazine in January. I can only repeat what I've
already said. Of course, for us, Porsche is a jewel in the crown. And due to it's earnings -- it's
stronger earnings, Porsche is increasing in value. But another thing we can see is the Porsche is
doing very well in the new world of electric vehicles. Look at the Taycan for example. Porsche has
issued a very ambitious aggressive electrification strategy. We shouldn't forget, however, that the
reason it does achieve these big margins is that we utilize the group back branch, so partially with
Audi and there were some -- these Porsche vehicles are often producing Volkswagen parts. So,
we are very closely connected with Porsche.
Porsche also makes a significant contribution to the group, not just cash flows, but other things as
well. So, it will be something that would have to be very, very carefully thought through. And
another objective and this is something that we're optimistic about is the transformation that lies
ahead can be financed using the cash flows that we generate from our business, which is why we
don't see any cost action on that front.
A - `Nicole Mommsen, Head of Global Group Communications `
Thank you very much. And I have one question from (inaudible) from controlling. You said that
software -- the car software will become one of the biggest software companies in Europe. Why
are you confident that we will -- how are you confident that we will have to get the best programs
in the world for Volkswagen?
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, now the answer. We hope that they will apply to us. I often spoke to Mr. Kuhn Deck[ph] who
is Head of Software for us. We have more than 500 the software specialists who have been
appointed. A number of them have come from Silicon Valley. A lot of them just find the projects
very exciting. Now, it's the only software project in Europe, which could have the ambition of
setting global standard is the only domain, but what I am trying to say is a new work on the
premium industry which is globally network. We've got these competent suppliers, Bosch
Continental. Hella, the other companies as well, which have a lot of expertise in other areas.
Now, if we can succeed in combining this effectively and being fast enough, then it will be
possible to do a great service to Europe, because then this would be a software domain, which
needs to be competitive globally and which can also access to Europe being strong in the field of
software. It's not the people with the constraints. There were lots of people who educated here
at universities and will go to Silicon Valley. But the question is can we be fast enough in getting
everything together that we need, getting the resources that we require. And as you've seen,
there are 15 different companies that were being integrated at the moment. It's important theopportunity for Volkswagen. If we've got programmers who have been working here very
passionate about their work, it's good for Germany, good for Europe, good for industry.
A - `Nicole Mommsen, Head of Global Group Communications `
Thank you very much. Now, I have one more question from Young Schreiber[ph] from the AFP,
and he is asking planning in the electric entry model segment and he wants to know what is
planned for the ID vehicle. He wants to know what is planned below the ID vehicle at the entry
level segment.
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I believe this is something that we announced in 2025. We would like to launch an entry-level
platform for electric vehicles, which is derived from the MEB. The intention is, if everything goes
well, it will begin in Spain and there is Group vehicles will be introduced. We believe that this will
come at exactly the right point in time because we are electrifying from the top down, so
premium than the volume segment and then the entry level segment, because it's the most cost
sensitive segment, but by this point in time, when it comes to sell, technology would have made
significantly more progress and thus we will be able to offer very attractive vehicles, similar to the
ID.3, but in the segment below it, up to around 4 meters or 4 meters 20, right. I think ID.3 is
around golf and then beneath this we got the Polo. So, it will be in the Polo segment.
We've had a lot of experience with MEB on expertise. We will be integrated into the development
of the new entry level model. Now, of course, the price of segments is very low, but we are
optimistic that we will succeed here, again with scales and also with the technology that
Volkswagen has.
A - `Nicole Mommsen, Head of Global Group Communications `
Okay. Now I have one more question from (inaudible) and he would like to ask charges from the
diesel crisis for 2021.
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
We do believe that they will continue to be an issue. The diesel costs will continue to be an issues
in 2021. `Frank Witter, Chief Financial Officer would like to answer the question.
A - `Frank Witter, Chief Financial Officer `
Now, special items of more than EUR32 million have come about over the diesel crisis, which is a
huge sum. You can have a look at our annual report here. I have clearly underlined that we have
cleared up a lot of this, we've -- but there are still some litigation risks, which are not yet
concluded. This could take a few years to conclude with these litigations.
We have valued all diesel-related potential charges and set aside provisions for them, but these
are estimates that we -- based on the knowledge that we have now. But when it comes to
settlements, so the payments as we call them, not necessarily special items as reported, we
expect around EUR2.5 billion in 2020, which is expected, so we need to distinguish between what
goes for the GNV and what the payments will be over the entire period of time, but yes, we
believe we probably got the worst of it behind us, but we -- it has not come to an end.
A - `Nicole Mommsen, Head of Global Group Communications `Okay, thank you very much. There were no more questions. I would just like to ask if there are any
more questions. Otherwise, we will conclude the event. Let me just ask again. Are there any
further questions?
Mr. Halberg from . So, Mr. Halberg please, .
So, I have a couple of audio problems. We won't think at the end. When do you plan to achieve
the margin target of 6% for Volkswagen?
A - `Herbert Diess, Chief Executive Officer `
By 2023, that's the plan.
A - `Frank Witter, Chief Financial Officer `
And yeah, there is no reason to believe that we won't achieve it.
A - `Nicole Mommsen, Head of Global Group Communications `
Thank you very much. In that case, I would like to say thank you to Mr. Diess, Mr. Antlitz, and Mr.
Witter. Thank you very much for answering the questions In the Q&A session. We will be available
to you to answer your questions throughout the course of the day.
And on that note, I hope you enjoy the rest of your day. And most importantly, stay healthy. Thank
you very much. Thank you. Thank you.