Y 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Sebastian Rudolph, Head of Global Group Communications
Okay, very good. As this was the kick-off sign for me. Dear all thanks for joining us today to our
Investors and Analysts Q&A, together with me here in Berlin, our CEO, `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officer, and our
CFO, `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer. Before I hand over to Oli and to Arno, some housekeeping remarks. You
should have all received today our press release, the Annual Report 2022, and the Investors and
Analysts presentation. If not so, please visit our website www.volkswagenag.com. The session will
be opened by a brief summary from Oli and from Arno, focusing on the most relevant topics for
fiscal year 2022 and our outlook for 2023.
Before we start, I would like to draw your attention to the disclaimer, which you will see now,
we're good. Please read it carefully, because I'm not going to read it to you. After the intro we will
host the Q&A and would ask all of you to stay disciplined on the Q&A limiting yourself to let's say,
two questions per person in order to give everybody a chance to raise his or her question up on
due time. If anything is left unanswered, the IR team will be happy to take your questions
afterwards.
With that, I'll hand it over to Oli and Arno for the opening remarks. Oli, the floor is yours.
`Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officer `
Alright. Thank you very much for your introduction. Dear ladies and gentlemen, thanks for joining
our Investors and Analysts Q&A session today after our Annual Media Conference.
Last year's success were a great team effort. Each of our brands has also contributed to our
success and that in all four brand groups. Let me start with the volume group and I'm particularly
very proud of the ID bus, its success shows that the combination of tradition and state-of-the-art
technology is extremely well received by our customers.
The premium brand group, Bentley sold more than 15,000 vehicles in one year for the first time
in 2022 and looking to the results and operating profit over EUR700 million with the profitabilityover 20%. This is a great team effort of which we can particularly be proud of Lamborghini
continue to build on its impressive growth, delivering over 9,000 vehicles worldwide last year, a
10% increase over the previous sales record set in '21 and that with an operating profit over
EUR600 million and the profitability over 25%.
And in Sports and Luxury, my personal highlight was the Porsche IPO, which a lot of you joined,
during the last year, the IPO marked a historic day. Porsche is more independent and agile after
the IPO, the newly gained independence makes it possible to develop even more speed. And
yesterday, we were able to present it on the Annual Media Conference of Porsche. The IPO has
shown that we can successful on the Capital Market, we are now using this experience to
sustainably increase the value of the group.
And last but not least, coming to Traton, also with a positive development for the first time in
history achieved over 300,000 unit and that's also driven by Navistar and -- with an operating
profit of EUR1.6 billion. We are confident that we have a successful fiscal year ahead of us to turn
this confidence into reality. We will continue to systematically implement our 10-point plan.
Let me touch on some highlights here. Our top priority remains financial robustness. We will use
our capital more efficiently and focus more on our financial income and net cash flow. At the same
time, controlling our costs and the proceeds generated by the Porsche IPO in September' 22
have provided additional headroom.
On products, our customers buy brands and our brands are iconic. We will continue to focus on
product strategy, design, quality, and future-oriented technology profile of our products and will
release a series of new models.
Coming to China, and I had the opportunity to visit China four weeks ago. And I was very
impressed because of the speed you can see there in the market in terms of technology. The
Chinese market is changing very quickly and we need the right strategy and the right speed to
safeguard our leadership position there, we are naming our approach in China, for China, which
will center local partnerships, including Horizon Robotics and CARIAD what we announced last
year.
Coming to CARIAD, one of our most pressing issues last year was the reorganization of our
software activities. Now, we continue to develop CARIAD with exciting project and a new realistic
software roadmap.
Coming to PowerCo, a stable supply of competitive battery cells is necessary for the ramp-up of
immobility. That is why we established PowerCo in July. PowerCo is responsible for all activities
along the entire battery value chain. Our plant in `Horst Schneider, Bank of America, which is scheduled to start a
production in '25 is the blueprint for our global battery offensive. And as you have mentioned, we
already announced a battery plant in Canada as well.
Sustainability. Last year, we tightened our CO2 targets in production and received an award from
the Renowned Science Based Targets Initiative. Instead of the previous 30% reduction, we are
now aiming for 50% reduction in production related CO2 emissions from our passenger cars and
light commercial vehicles by 2030. By the end of the year, our European production site will
already be supplied with 100% renewable energy.
Enter important capital markets, our strategic investment planning up to '27, proves that the
Volkswagen Group is looking to the future for all our brands. We are therefore further fine-tuning
virtual equity stories for our brand groups and where you drive us in the group the results will be
presented at the Capital Markets Day on June 21, a strong, robust, resilient, digital, andsustainable. This is how we will continue to play a leading role in the era of electric and digital
mobility.
And at the end of my words, I would like to comment something about our Capital Markets Day,
we have announced for the 21st of June this year, which will take place in Hofmann heim and what
you can expect from the Capital Markets Day. First of all, we are -- we thought that it's -- will be
very useful for you to experience our great products at the Capital Markets day during a driving
event at the Hockenheimring, the racetrack. Content-wise, at the Capital Markets Day we'll
provide an update of key focus areas and the new steering approach at Volkswagen.
We plan to detail the strategy of our brand groups, including plant -- the plant EV ramp-up. Give
an update of status and key milestones for our technology business, provide an overview of our
strategy in key regions, explain our new steering model, share the Group's financial targets and
framework and we target that you as investors will have better transparency on where we
currently stand and how the new team will turn the company into a better one. The Capital
Markets Day is planned at the start of a series of events String of Pearls, over the coming years,
more to be revealed at the Capital Markets Day.
So, thank you very much for listening and now I would like to turn over to Arno. I think, this is
where the financials come into play. Can you give us a short overview on the results and a
overview for the upcoming year.
`Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Thank you, Oliver. I promise, I'll make it short. The Volkswagen Group generated solid financial
results in the year 2022 in a challenging environment. The same time, we met what brokers in key
areas of our corporate strategy and thus rigorously advance our transformation. This again
proves the robustness of our business model and their commitment of our team to drive change.
Volkswagen Group is well-positioned, operates from a strong financial position and has the will to
continue to transform towards electrification and digitalization, also in challenging times.
Now, look at our financial figures just briefly. I'm sure by now, every one of you had the chance to
have a look at them in detail. Sales volume were at the big level of the previous year due to
various restrictions and distortions in the supply chain and the continued shortage of
semiconductor. Our sales revenue increased by 12% to EUR279 billion as the trend of higher mix
and better equipped vehicles from the previous year continued.
This increased our operating profit before special items to EUR22.5 billion, the operating margin
increased slightly to 8.1%. This strong result benefited from non-cash valuation effects of around
EUR1.8 billion on our raw material hedges.
On the other hand, we had to absorb write downs in connection with the closure of our business
in Russia, in the order of EUR2 billion and the costs associated with the very successful IPO of
Porsche amounted to around EUR0.5 billion. Earnings adjusted for effects would have been even
exceeded the reported EUR22.5 billion. The passenger car business came in at EUR15 billion, a
strong performance given the challenges in supply chains and the burden from our Russian
business. Trucks came in at EUR1.6 billion corresponding to a 4% margin and really strong results
again in our financial services business with an operating result of EUR5.7 billion.
Coming to our EBIT Bridge, performing in the passenger car division was driven by a convincing
product substance across all brands enabling us once again able to compensate for the negative
effects of the slightly lower sales volume through strong mix and better pricing discipline.
However, raw material costs for steel, aluminum, our battery raw materials have becomeconsiderably more expensive, compared to 2021 for the year as a whole, the resulting increase in
product cost had a negative impact of almost EUR8 billion on the operating profit.
By the continued high discipline, we were unable to completely avoid an increase in fixed costs
due to sales growth and upfront expenditures from new product. Nevertheless our fixed cost
reduction initially contributed significantly to the good result and to an improved competitive
position.
One short moment on net liquidity as well and net cash flow, we cannot be satisfied with the
reported net cash flow generated of around EUR5 billion in fiscal year 2022, also reflecting an
unstable supply situation throughout 2022 and disruptions in logistics chains, particularly at the
end of the year. As a result working capital and in particular in mention to finished goods, raw
materials were at the end of the year significantly higher than expected.
In addition CapEx as well as R&D increase versus fiscal year 2022, as we continue to invest in our
future. That liquidity of the automotive division end of 2022, increased to EUR43 billion including
proceeds of EUR16.1 billion from the successful Porsche IPO in September 2022. Adjusted for the
payout of the net dividend in January, the net liquidity for the automotive business stands to
around EUR36.5 billion at the end of -- the beginning of 2023.
Few words on China, our proportionate operating result of our JVs in China came in at EUR3.3
billion well above the 2021 figure, but still under the respective result of 2020. Last but not least,
you are aware that we proposed a regular dividend of EUR8.70 per ordinary share. This is around
16% above previous year and adds to the special dividend of EUR19.6 per ordinary share. This
clearly underpins our conviction that our shareholders benefit from the robust financial
performance of the Volkswagen Group.
Coming to our outlook, important core economic indicator, such as growth prospects in the
individual regions, our expected inflation rates remain challenging. On the other hand, we expect
that in 2023, the structural shortage of semiconductors will improve and supply of this raw
materials and logistics will gradually stabilize. The latter one is within our clear focus, your
fascinating brands with convincing product offerings in all major segments and an order backlog
of almost 2 million vehicles in Western Europe alone.
On this Pages, we assume that deliveries to customers of the Volkswagen Group in 2023, will
amount to around 9.5 million vehicles, for the Volkswagen Group we expect sales revenue in
2023 to exceed the prior year figure by 10% to 15%. And the operating return on sales to remain
between a solid 7.5% and 8.5%.
Volkswagen Group expects reported net cash flow in the region of EUR6 billion to EUR8 billion in
2023. This implies the reversal of a negative effect in working capital at the end of 2022
mentioned earlier, on the other hand, this guidance takes into account the provision for additional
cash effective expenses for the development of our battery business in PowerCo of around EUR5
billion on top of our current core business. The upfront expenditures for battery activity are
important prerequisite for the successful ramp-up of electric vehicle production and in our opinion
represent the key success factor in the future.
So far to our financial figures and now let's kick off to the Q&A.
Questions And Answers
A - `Sebastian Rudolph, Head of Global Group CommunicationsA - `Rolf Woller, Head-Group Treasury & Investor Relations `
Thank you, Arno, and thank you, Oli. (Operator Instructions) And we can already see first
questions actually queuing up here. And I would like to take a first question here, `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank
from Deutsche Bank. Tim.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank `
Yeah. Thank you, Oli and Arno for taking our questions. Not sure who to address my two
questions because they are clearly of financial nature, but at the same time, it's very much about
the strategic direction of the company. So when I think about my two questions, and I think about
your outlook, short and mid-term. In the short term, your outlook sent quite a few shockwaves
through the automotive industry last week, many wondering in particular about the bullishness for
the volume, but also how you want to keep pricing while you're growing so strongly.
Can you explain why you feel a need to grow as much instead of clearly prioritizing profit after
with all that the industry can be much more profitable at lower selling levels? And if Q1 already
supports this guidance or if this is something that you have to chase into H2?
And secondly, when we think about the mid-term, many investors look at your investment plans
today, and they wonder if it will ever stop to go up or if you will always find something new to
spend money on. Now you say the peak is in 2025. Now it feels a lot of these investments are
done just to, frankly, maintain your ability to actually still sell cars by the way of availability, Euro 7
and so on and so forth rather than really generating any incremental profits from where you are
today. Post the investment peak in 2025, should we expect free cash flow to increase materially
from here? Or is the ROI that you are generating with these investments rather in the range of
what we are used to from you guys today? Thank you.
A - `Rolf Woller, Head-Group Treasury & Investor Relations `
Hi, Tim, we used the time here to align. The first answer will come from Oli. It's on the bullishness
of the volume. Second then will be taken by Arno, and the third is a mix of the two. So Oli, please
start.
A - `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officer `
Hi, Tim, thanks for your questions. Yeah, about our volume planning, we still have a very order
bank and a strong, strong order intake. And on the other side, we implemented a program to
stabilize our supply chain, which is paying off. So we are getting positive results from our supply
network.
And when you look back to '22, you have to take in mind that we had to close a lot of our
factories because of the Ukraine war and the wire harnesses we are getting from the Ukraine. We
were not able to catch up all the units over the year. And therefore, it's very logical for us that we
have a strong increase in deliveries in '23, calculating with 9.5%, and that's feasible because of
our market condition. Overall, we won't push the products into the market in terms of pricing
situation and that is my position, that we drive the company more market-driven than production-
driven. And then I hand over to Arno for the second question.
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Yeah, I'll try to answer this combination of questions. You referred to our outlook and also the
volume planning, as Oliver said, the volume planning is a combination of great products we have,we sit on an order bank of 1.8 million cars alone in Europe, and we want to deliver these cars to
the customers and last but not least, if you compare to 2022, there were like a technical
improvement plan since we had specifically the wiring harness topic in April, June.
So all-in-all, we think we can achieve that without sacrificing margin discipline and stay disciplined
there. So our outlook, as you mentioned, it's a confident outlook. But if you look on our business
model, we think we have all the ingredients on hand that we can achieve this outlook. First and
foremost, yes, there will be a positive volume price mix, of course, due to the volume planning
we have and due to the factors I just mentioned.
Also product cost, you -- I think you saw that specifically in Q4, we were hit with a huge amount of
huge mix sort of product costs. Some of them will like basically also be relevant for 2023. But
overall, the bucket product costs in our EBIT bridge should turn to a significant positive. And last
but not least on the fixed cost side, we want to stay very disciplined on the fixed cost. So taking
all these things into account, we think, yes, it's an outlook which is ambitious, but we are pretty
much sure that we can achieve that outlook in terms of margin.
So then our mid-term planning. I'm sure you referred to the EUR180 billion for the five-year
planning on. Let me give you a little bit more light into or more details on to that. Basically,
technically, it's -- if you'll take the EUR159 billion from last -- from last planning round, we basically
added EUR15 billion for the battery capacity increase and our battery strategy, not only in terms
of battery capacity, but also in terms of raw materials, and the significant increase was covered.
In terms of the R&D CapEx combined over time, we expect the peak in 2025 -- 2024, 2025. And
from there on, a significant like reduction year-over-year. So why is that the case? Look, currently,
we are really in a situation where we want to ramp up or we need to ramp up our battery electric
strategy, both in terms of products and in terms of basically transforming our factories to electric.
At the same time, we expect last expenditures, last comments for giving our combustion cars
competitive and it's a unique situation for us to grow in relevant regions, specifically in the U.S.
with the Inflation Reduction Act. So this is basically kind of a double burden we see in the next two
to three years. And based on what you said, then based on our long-term EBIT planning, cash
flow should then significantly improve after 2025 and beyond.
A - `Rolf Woller, Head-Group Treasury & Investor Relations `
Arno, and on first quarter start.
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
First quarter start. We had a decent start into the first quarter in terms of sales, specifically in
Europe and the rest of the world. China was weak, but in China, also the overall market was weak.
It was not only Volkswagen situation.
We want to and we will be disciplined on pricing and incentives. I talked about a burden from raw
materials that might be still a significant factor in the first quarter in a total year. As said, it should
turn to a positive. Of course, we cannot predict our hedging results fixed cost discipline. So all in
all, we expect also the first quarter to be within the bandwidth of 7.5% to 8.5%.
A - `Rolf Woller, Head-Group Treasury & Investor Relations `
Thanks, Arno. Very good. Tim, all questions answered?
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank `Thank you. Yeah, that's very clear. Can I follow up with one question on the short-term statement.
Come the second half, you realize China does not bounce back very strongly. Europe is actually
weaker than you expect. You have worked through your order backlog. Do you prioritize the unit
sales targets or the margin target?
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Tim, I said we want to stay disciplined, and we will stay disciplined. But on the other hand, look,
we -- look, we have this order backlog of 1.8 million to almost 2 million cars. So we really want to
deliver these cars to the customers. So our ambitious volume planning is not taking into account
the significant increase in incentives.
But really the customers are waiting some electrical cars -- customers are waiting for more than a
year and also the combustion engine cars have really a long load time. And we have a strong
order intake based on the current pricing, specifically on the non-BEV cars. So the order bank is
even moving towards 1.9 billion and towards 2 billion -- 2 million cars. So we really want to deliver
these cars to the customer.
A - `Rolf Woller, Head-Group Treasury & Investor Relations `
So executing on the order book and staying disciplined on the margin. George, the next question
comes from you, from `George Galliers, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs.
Q - `George Galliers, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you. Thank you for taking my questions. So the first question I had was just around the
incremental investments in the battery business of EUR15 billion. Could you just confirm how many
incremental plants you're adding to the plan today versus what was included in planning around
EUR70 billion [ph]? And with the EUR15 billion you've identified, is that sufficient cover this
investment by Volkswagen as a whole? Or will you still need or potentially need funding support
from external partners, either potentially battery pure plays? Or in the past, you've mentioned
potential battery IPO as a means of funding the battery plants.
The second question I had was also around the incremental investments, and this is specifically
on Scout. Obviously, Scout sounds like an exciting venture with a very good history to the brand.
But when I look at your portfolio today, it looks like you have in excess of 12 brands, more than 80
different models, which obviously adds a huge amount of complexity to your business. When I
compare that to the most valuable car company in the world, operating with one brand and four
models, clearly, they don't have the same complexity.
As you think about Volkswagen strategically, do you need to have the complexity you had in the
old world in the new world to achieve sales volumes of roughly 10 million units, which you've
achieved in the past? Thank you.
A - `Rolf Woller, Head-Group Treasury & Investor Relations `
Thanks, George. The first part will be taken by Oli on the EUR15 billion battery invest. And the
second Scout, we have a passionate speaker here for the Scout brand that will be taken by Arno.
A - `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, George, let me start with your question about the battery business for us. It is, on the one
hand side, important that we see the battery technologies as a core competence for the future.
And therefore, we decided also to build our own development and production. On the otherside, we always have to leverage what we want to do by our own and where we want to work
together with partners and that depends a lot on the cost positioning. We would and will be able
to achieve in the different regions of the world. And so it's a make-make or buy a process behind.
What is important that from our planning, what we need only in Europe, our own 240-kilowatt
hours per year. And we kicked off two battery plants in Europe with Salzgitter and Valencia. And
for the upcoming year, we will decide where we want to build new battery plants. And that
depends a lot on the industrial framework we are getting in the regions, which support we are
getting on the financial level and what plays a big role is the energy pricing.
And turning to North America the decision we have taken for the Canada plant provides all these
aspects, very positive industrial framework, a guarantee for energy pricing and beside of this, the
opportunity for cooperation in value chain energy and raw materials. And that makes this decision
so attractive. And in Europe, we will take it step by step and always leveraging what we do by our
own and what we will do with partners, but also focusing on our core competence.
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Yeah, George, I will answer the question. As I said, and I will based on what Oliver said on the
strategy on a battery, a little bit more technical background. In the planning same, there was
basically only the Salzgitter plant included. We always said, including one plant. And now with the
planning around 71, we included basically the EUR15 billion on top for the -- for basically the
finalization of Salzgitter and then basically Valencia the plant in Canada, we just communicated a
small proportion of money if there would be an additional investment. And the remaining EUR215
billion are basically reserved for investment along the value chain upstream in raw material and
then also in BEVs, for example, for the cathode material.
So this is basically the EUR15 billion, we do not rule out that the figure over time will increase. But
for the time being, this is included in our 71 figure.
Yes, let me talk a little bit about Scout. I'm really excited. I mean, look, I'll do it a little bit more
from a strategic perspective. Given the regulatory uncertainty in the current environment, it's
really important that we are strategically more resilient than -- we are strong in Europe, and we
are strong in China, and we really want to keep that strength, but we have the chance and we
need to basically strengthen our third pillar in the U.S.
This is very clear with more localization, and Scout and the electrification also of the typical [ph]
segment. By the way, one of the most profitable and promising segments in the world gives us
the opportunity to enter this very profitable segment with an own brand with Scout. We have the
technology. We basically now have also the battery cells there. And that would really enlarge our
footprint and also would give us the opportunity to grow in the U.S. market and to grow
profitable.
Just for a reminder, for you, for years, we made losses, which is basically not a secret. We
achieved the turnaround in 2021. And in 2022, we were already highly profitable there, and we
want to continue that profitable growth. That doesn't mean that we see also the necessity and
the possibility of reduction of our model lineup, specifically in the combustion engine, you will see
a significant first reduction towards Euro 7 or after Euro 7. And in total, we want to achieve a
significant higher sales volume in 2030 with significant less models overall.
So if you take the number of models today on ICE and combustion engine, on the one hand and
BEVs, on the other hand, the model lineup in 2030 will be significantly lower than today.Q - `George Galliers, Goldman Sachs `
Right. Thank you.
A - `Rolf Woller, Head-Group Treasury & Investor Relations `
Thanks, George. The next question comes from Harald from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `Harald Hendrikse, Morgan Stanley `
Yeah. Thank you so much for taking my questions. Two questions, really. Firstly, I mean, I'm sorry
to have to go back to this, but I mean all the clients are wondering, and we unfortunately have a
lot of experience of car companies guiding ambitiously on volumes. And as you well know, that
hasn't historically ended incredibly well. So I'm just wondering the strategy, why guide to 9.5? Why
not guide a little bit lower? And then I know you've got the order bank and order book, I'm
listening to you.
But if you guide lower and then you end up higher, tends to have a much, much better result. It
now seems like three or four of the big OEMs are over guiding. And historically, that's led to more
pricing. And maybe you can give us a bit of color on the overall market share assumptions you're
making because -- and even IHS global sales growth of 3%, it looks like you're aiming to take 1
million units of market share in 2023, which seems quite ambitious.
Second question, strategically, given the increase in the investment plan. And again, I fully
understand your ambitions in batteries and it makes sense. But if you're an investor and your
company is currently very profitable, right, over EUR20 billion of EBIT, which has historically
peaked profitability. You're now spending EUR180 billion, EUR360 per share in the next five years
on transitioning the company.
What happens to that strategy if suddenly, we do have a much more difficult market? You saw
what happened to the banking system this week. If banks suddenly pull back from lending and
the overall car demand starts to fall, what happens to EUR180 billion worth of investment, which
you must understand is the most enormous number we've ever seen, if your profitability and your
cash flow starts to fall, you understand, that's strategically very difficult, but it's very difficult for
investors as well. How would you answer that question, please?
A - `Rolf Woller, Head-Group Treasury & Investor Relations `
All right. Oli is taking the 9.5, and then also happy to elaborate on the EUR180 billion. And Arno is
adding the additional color.
A - `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Rolf. Harald, about the volume. It's more a consequence about the situation where we
do have from the order side and the more stable situation in our supply chain network and the
expectations we do have in the markets. And -- but once again, for us, the volume at the end is
not a driving key figure. More important, this is our profit margin. And that's the answer. Over the
year, we will leverage how the market situation is developing.
For example, and already, we are able to see it in Europe that the situation for Volkswagen Group
is better than last year and logical and because of the Ukraine roll-out last year. And now we see
a strong signal on the market. And in China, the whole market now is increasing. And especially in
China, we're expecting a very strong second, second half year. And that is the logic behind. WeAfter corona, a lot of people there were rating. We're watching what happens in the community,
what decisions will be taken by the government in March. And so that's the expectations we do
have. And at the end, if we see difficult market conditions, we always leverage and prioritize our
margin situation.
Q - `Harald Hendrikse, Morgan Stanley `
Okay. Thank you. So you would agree -- so you're not actually looking to take 1 million units, you're
more bullish on the overall market volumes than we are. Is that the right conclusion from what
you're saying?
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
We expect plus 8% for the overall market, and that compares to the plus 15%. But we would take
a slightly higher share. As said, both on broad substance and order bank, but also technically, if
you look at how we performed in the last year, specifically from the wire and harness topic
following the Ukraine war. So it's plausible how we plan the overall market.
Q - `Harald Hendrikse, Morgan Stanley `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
On the investment, we have very solid financials. We always said the Porsche IPO would give us
more flexibility to finance the transformation and the proceeds were always earmarked basically
for the battery strategy. And in terms of profitability of the battery business, we think it's also
justified. In terms of risk and robustness, of course, if there were signs that our overall plan
doesn't work out the overall industry is not growing as we expect, we are flexible to also react on
the EUR180 billion.
There are flexibilities built in, one flexibility is obvious if the market would come different, if the
battery electric vehicle overall market would be different in Europe. We have flexibility in
postponing or shifting some of the investments in the battery business. And so rest assured, the
overall target is having at all times, solid financials and robust financials. And we will look at this
figure planning on by planning around and look at our volumes we achieve on our margin we
achieve and if necessary, we would adjust accordingly.
Q - `Harald Hendrikse, Morgan Stanley `
Okay. Thank you very much.
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Thanks, Harald. The next question comes from `Daniel Roska, Sanford Bernstein from Sanford Bernstein.
Q - `Daniel Roska, Sanford Bernstein
Hey. Thanks for taking my questions. My first question relates to the speed of innovation in the
industry at Volkswagen. Now you referenced your China trip several times, highlighting the speed
in the market and in some areas, you highlighted kind of where you wanted to catch up. If you're
behind today, how can you increase your speed sufficiently to kind of out-innovate the
competitors ahead of you? And what are some of the changes that give you confidence kind of
to significantly increase Volkswagen's innovation speed in the years to come?And then my second question relates to e-fuels where you seem to have a disconnect. You
summarized earlier that ships, aircraft possibly other regions would greatly benefit from e-fuels,
no argument there. But how does that create a need for e-fuels in Europe, where by 2035 your
(inaudible) emissions, 100% should be feasible? Or is this kind of a vote of non-confidence for
that 100% target by '35? And on the sector level, are you not worried that more delays and more
discussions about regulations in Europe than the '35 targets, may drive investments away from
Europe and then aggregate actually work against the, let's say, the comp and the Paris targets?
Thanks.
A - `Rolf Woller, Head-Group Treasury & Investor Relations `
A clear winner for these two questions, Daniel. Oli?
A - `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officer `
Daniel, thanks for your questions. And first, speed of innovation. And that is so important for us,
having on the one hand side, focus and on the other side, speed. And therefore, we have taken
many very important decisions on group level. And let me start with our platforms. We aren't very
clearly our platforms for the future now to lead engineers. We have the smaller platforms as C
and A [ph], and the lead development of Volkswagen, the B&C segment for Audi and the D
segment in Porsche, and that brings us in the position to benefit from our scale effects in the
group. It's a very clear focus.
And what we are doing currently. We already started with the first platform, the SSP sports
platform to define a clear technology profile, which defines where we want to be 5 or 10 years
and also watching the competition in the market in order to jump far enough most with our
platforms, and that's driving innovation.
And therefore, we are very confident now with the shape of our platforms, that we will be
competitive for our intermediate platforms. For example, the MEB and the PPE, we already
decided important upgrade, which will come very, very soon, on the level of innovations, but also
on the quality of our cars.
And then as a important point, it's not about innovation, but about attractiveness of our products
is a very big design approach to improve design features for the future and so we have a
complete program very focused on products. And there, we are very confident all the products
sought from the customers that we will hit the market and speed up the platforms.
Talking about e-fuels, and there, the discussion is often that there is a conflict in between electro
mobility and e-fuels and even a conflict is when you think about climate protection, you have to
think in all measures, which are possible. And we are strongly committed on our ramp-up curve
on electro mobility. And on the other side, and that's only a initiative we are doing in the group
with Porsche. All the other brands don't invest into e-fuels, that's only Porsche because we see it
more as a responsibility.
Think about options to reduce CO2 for existing combustion engine cars on the road and ships or
in the aviation industry. And there, I don't know any other option then to go for e-fuels and every
percentage counts. And that might be a big market. And we should come out from the German
or the European perspective that the climate changes a worldwide responsibility. And when you
look towards South America to Africa to India, for example, we will have combustion engine cars
over a decade.And so there is a market. And therefore, from our understanding of sustainability, we tried for it,
but it's focused on Porsche. Porsche has a share of the biggest e-fuels company of the world.
That's it. And from the augmentation, I hope it will be possible to separate the strong electric
ramp-up and the synthetic fuels. For the electric ramp-up in Europe, 35% is ambitious. That is
clear.
And therefore, we have to provide with exciting products. It's our job. Then we need the charging
infrastructure. There, we will support. We have the plan worldwide to achieve around about
45,000 fast-charging points around the world, but it's also a public issue. And on the other side,
to build new renewable energy resources is also a condition for the ramp-up.
And so in Europe, let's go for it. It's ambitious. But we also have to watch all the other regions of
the world. Our investment profile is prepared for this. But we also have to take in mind a bit of
flexibility in terms of different speed of the regions, how they are moving towards the
transformation.
Q - `Daniel Roska, Sanford Bernstein
Superb. Thank you.
A - `Rolf Woller, Head-Group Treasury & Investor Relations `
Thank you, Daniel. So the next question is from `Horst Schneider, Bank of America from Bank of America. Horst?
Q - `Horst Schneider, Bank of America `
Yeah. Good morning, everyone. Thanks for taking also my questions. I want to ask them, please,
one by one. I want to come back again, sorry, on the top line guidance, but I want to phrase the
question a little bit more different. So Arno, you have said this morning, I think, in an interview that
the mass market is getting more competitive. So maybe you can elaborate what do you mean by
that? Where do you see that? How is the order and price situation developing at the moment?
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Actually, this was not only this morning an interview, I said that already several times, and just
repeating it. Looking a little bit ahead, what's happened in our industry. The industry was basically
supply side driven for two or three years. We had not enough semi supply. We're still restricted
with the semi supply, but that semi supply will improve throughout the year.
And on the other hand, we have the macroeconomic situation, interest rates, inflation. And so
what I expected at, let's say, Q3 that demand is slowing down and the supply is improving. So I
expect Q3, where demand and supply will meet and that better supply that will be true for all of
the companies. So there will be more competition. And this is what I said, we're preparing for
that. We see high raw material prices. We see other price increase, and it will be more difficult to
pass on these price increases to the customer.
This is what I am preparing or we are preparing our teams for. So we have to refocus on
productivity. We have to have a refocus on fixed cost discipline on pricing and on cost work. That
doesn't mean that we want to lose the basically discipline on pricing and incentives. But it will be
more competition throughout this year. And what I said before, we really prepare our company
and our teams for this increased competition.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Bank of America `But that does not mean that 2023 is a kind of one-off event where you catch up with all the
shortages. And then we see the two weakness in 2024. So ultimate ambition is still you have got
now maybe a gap in the model launches, you will have a firework of new models in 2024. And
that means that '24 can be even better than '23. You don't have to give you guidance for '24, of
course, but just that we are clear about the path that you are aiming for.
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Absolutely, Horst. I can't give you a guidance for 2024. We will give -- we will do that on the
Capital Markets Day, perhaps not in detail in 2024, but our strategic outlook. And our strategic
outlook is very sound. We had our strategic plans discussed before. And it will be not the
situation, will see one good -- one additional good year for us in 2023 and not delivering them
from there. It will be a positive path.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Bank of America `
That's great to hear. And the second question that I have, I still have got problems to understand
and the link between the revenue guidance and the EBIT guidance. I mean, if you guide for EUR10
billion to EUR15 billion revenue growth, and then at the same time, I assume kind of 20%
leverage, that should basically take the EBIT -- should increase the EBIT by something like EUR6
billion, should take the operating margin to 9%, and you are guiding on 10% to 15% higher
revenues for -- at the low end of -- for kind of stable margin.
So therefore, maybe you can elaborate again, what are now exactly the drivers? There seem to
be either there's a safety cushion built into the guidance? Or there are some other compensating
factors, let be on the cost side, which could be 1% of sales burden, which you can compensate by
pricing. So maybe you can explain that in some more detail. Thank you.
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
No, very precise discussion if we are doing it.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Bank of America `
Sorry, I'm analyst.
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
No. But you're quite right. And your figures are not so far away from what -- how we expect them.
In the volume, you're right that there will be a volume price mix effect. We will see a slightly
negative mix effect, both in terms of region and both in terms of channels and both also in terms
of the cars we saw.
Of course, in a period where we were very much restricted by semis, we didn't ship all the cars
and the semis to the less promising regions in terms of margin, for example, Brazil and others,
we -- the people or customers ordered better equipped cars, so we didn't offer the entry cars
and also different channels. So there will be a slightly negative effect from there. But we want to
continue on pricing and incentives discipline.
Our broader cost, as I said before, will be even a small positive year-over-year. Fixed cost, we
want to be disciplined, but there will be also on the fixed cost side, you saw R&D and CapEx
guidance. There will be a small burden. And yes, as always, as a good CFO, there is a small safety
cushioning in the toll bridge, which led us then to the guidance.Q - `Horst Schneider, Bank of America `
Okay. Thanks, that's a clear statement. Thank you, and good luck.
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Thank you, Horst.
A - `Rolf Woller, Head-Group Treasury & Investor Relations `
Thank you, Horst. Well, the next one is `Patrick Hummel, UBS from UBS. Patrick?
Q - `Patrick Hummel, UBS `
Yes. Thanks. Good morning, everybody. Patrick from UBS. Two questions also from my end,
please. First one, I want to understand how you think about your BEV profitability longer-term.
Volkswagen is in the market with an ID.3, which is, say, EUR40,000 vehicle and an EBIT that's
maybe slightly above breakeven levels. Tesla's in the markets with the product today for the
same price tag, more or less, that's way bigger and it's coming with a compact car, whatever it's
exactly going to look like in a couple of years with 50% lower costs than model Y or Model 3
today.
I really struggle to see how VW is going to have an affordable EV that's profitable to you in a
couple of years time. Can you just update us about price points you're trying to achieve about
cost reduction targets you're going to achieve, what can you tell us today that makes us
confident that ID.3is going to be able against such competitors to have a profitable affordable EV
offering?
And that brings me to my second question. We do hear you on fixed cost discipline, et cetera. But
it feels to me other OEMs, especially mass market OEMs, have been much more vocal about the
need to take out further costs. They're launching new cost-cutting programs, be it in Europe or
be it in North America. And they're preparing for a market that's more competitive and where
we'll see more pricing pressure.
And costs, you talk about it. But on that slide about your 10 priorities for 2023, it's not even a
single item. So I just wonder, are you now too relaxed on the needs to aggressively take out
more cost of the business? Thank you.
A - `Rolf Woller, Head-Group Treasury & Investor Relations `
Go ahead, others will --
A - `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officer `
May I start and then I hand over to Arno to add some information. I will touch both of the
questions quickly. First of the BEV profitability, on the one hand side, we count on our platform
strategy and the scale effects. And there, especially when we look to the SSP shape, we have
decided during the last months I'm very confident that it will bring us in very positive scale invest
once and using the platform for different brands.
And on the other side, we reestablished cost programs for our current business, but also already
for the future business with cost initiatives because there we have the main levers already in this
period for the newer platforms. There's one comment on this, and maybe Arno can dive a bit
deeper and about our cost programs or profitability improvement programs, we held targetsummits with all our brands and units in January. And there, we agreed strategic targets for
profitability and also being cash flow focused.
And that's not only a agreement we did there behind of this we have very clear programs what
we have to do. One example, we presented yesterday in the Porsche and your media
conference and the call we had together is a route to 20. And for all the other units, we are
currently implementing the same. And often spoken, it is to take the current planning round, then
to watch what's still the delta to get there.
And in the case of Porsche to get to the route to 20, then we defined very clearly what is missing
in terms of operating profit, what is missing of profitability. And then we defined clear programs
behind in measurable steps year-by-year, how to get there. And that's a very clear systematic
how to drive and to improve the profitability in each of our units. And I hand over to Arno to add
some comments.
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Thanks, Oliver. Add a little bit more on the detail side. Look, first and foremost, Patrick, we have a
-- from my point of view, we have been quite successful in fixed cost discipline. Look, we had this
program of reducing fixed cost by 10% 2019 until 2023. And we achieved that program almost in -
- already in 2021. In 2022, we had a slight increase in fixed costs, but this is an all-in summary.
It's -- we acquired Navistar, we build up PowerCo, we build up CARIAD and all of these additional
activities are included in that overhead cost initiative and still, we are below 2019 figure. And if
you take the relative burden of the fixed cost, we decreased that by 2 percentage points, which
is, yes, okay, could have been more. But we are operating in an industry that makes an 8
percentage point margin and 2 percentage points come from that overhead cost program, so it
is working. And quite honesty in 2023, at least, in terms of relative burden, basically overhead
costs divided by automotive sales revenue will deliver an additional positive.
So -- and going forward, we are very well aware that competition will become tougher. So we try
to stay as fix as possible on the overhead cost side, giving all the inflation, giving all the additional
activities in the group on the one hand. And the second level is productivity. Look, for, I would say,
two to three years, we were happy that we could build the cars. We got semis from, which led to
a lot of the distortion in the factory. So also in an internal individual asset, 2023 has to become
the year of productivity.
And last but not least, we founded the brand group volume, which will deliver a significant
positive level in terms of working together not on the sales on the customer side, here we want
to differentiate the cars even stronger, but on the back office side on production, on
development, on after sales. So there will be significant positives. The brand group volume wants
to achieve, last but not least, as Oliver said already, in that planning, there's also a new KPI, we
included in our brand group ceiling and that's the breakeven. So it's not only cash flow. We have a
strong focus on, but there will be also a clear breakeven target for each brand and group.
A - `Rolf Woller, Head-Group Treasury & Investor Relations `
And just to confirm -- thank you, Arno and Oliver for that. Just to confirm, so we are or you are on
track for a 2025-ish launch of an affordable EV that will be profitable to the group. That's still the
plan.
A little bit more detail on that I think we haven't called it so far too, but look it's easier to call it
that way. But it will be a car below the ID.3, will be a car from today's perspective belowEUR25,000, although it's too early to give you a specific pricing, and there are a lot of measures.
First-off and foremost, we will have significant scale by then. It's based on the MEB, but it's kind of
a second-generation MEB platform with a lot of customer improvements already. And that will be
also then based on our Valencia plant cell factory, which gives us an additional improvement on
the sales side.
By then hopefully, we also made significant progress in attaining and showing sufficient supply of
battery raw materials for Volkswagen. So there are a lot of building block scale, technology, more
product integration on the electric engine and converter and cheaper cell supply.
A - `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officer `
And then coming or adding Arno about scale effects. We do have talking about this platform. We
also have the opportunity to add models from other brands like from SKODA and also from
CUPRA, I know we already announced that we are considering a CUPRA UrbanRebel. And with
CUPRA, we are increasing step by step also the profit margins. And so that brings us in a very
positive scale effect situations with our platform strategy.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, UBS `
Appreciate all the color. Thank you.
A - `Rolf Woller, Head-Group Treasury & Investor Relations `
Thank you, Patrick. We have to watch a little bit the time. So maybe we can take another two
questioners before we have to round it up. And as I said, if there are any questions unanswered,
the IR team will be happy to take it. We continue with `Jose Asumendi, JPMorgan from JPMorgan.
Q - `Jose Asumendi, JPMorgan `
Thank you. This is Jose. A couple of questions, please. Arno, when looking at the guidance and
the share price reaction when you released it, it looks to me like constant expectations clearly
underestimates the level of disruption you went through last year. So can you just give us a bit
more color at the start of the year on the upper end of the sales and EBIT margin core that you
have provided.
And then, Oli, please, on product. I think it's very important to improve the competitiveness in
China. Can you comment, please, on the Volkswagen ID.3 the refresh you're going to do with a
bigger display and improve software. When should we expect this car to be launched? And how
quickly can you roll out these improvements across the remaining family, especially across China?
Thank you.
A - `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officer `
Jose, may I start with the China question. And first of all, for the ID.3, we are planning different
steps for updates. This year, we will come to the market with an update in terms of interior,
improving quality, improving material and in the exterior, especially in design in the front and the
rear. And then we decided in the last month, an important update for the MEB platform to
improve performance, to improve range, to improve charging time. And that will affect also very
clearly the Chinese market, but not enough with this.
We have to improve our platforms, especially from the smart car approach in China. And that is
what I mentioned when I had the opportunity to visit China four weeks ago to be closer to theChinese customers, to develop in China for China solutions. And therefore, we are aiming for
partnerships also with Chinese tech companies.
And what we will do there that we will have a clear product program ahead, which we will decide
in April, beside of the Shanghai Motor Show, we call the plan. It's our China target for 2030, but
very accelerated for all the brands. And the approach for Volkswagen for how it's little bit
different, then Porsche is different position. And that's what we are doing. And I think with this
approach, we will be able to catch up in the electric area, while we are still very strong in the ICE.
But what counts in the future, that's very clear is the performance on EVs and that's what we are
preparing currently, and we have clear ideas and a clear plan to do it.
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Jose, I'll try to answer the question. I'm not 100% sure whether I understood it right. Look, when
we gave the guidance, we expect from today's perspective to be at the midpoint, knowing yes,
in the past, there were several phases where we said, look, Volkswagen is a little bit more
conservative. But I think we should have an ambitious guidance to also challenge ourselves,
ambitious means reachable and feasible, and we are confident that we can achieve it. But for
today's perspective, you should expect us to be in the midpoint of the guidance.
Q - `Jose Asumendi, JPMorgan `
Fair enough. Thank you.
A - `Rolf Woller, Head-Group Treasury & Investor Relations `
Thank you, Jose. So we are coming to the last question for today's session. Henning, the floor is
yours.
Q - Analyst
Yeah. Thanks for squeezing me in. I was hoping to understand the structural free cash flow a little
bit better is my first question. You're guiding for the six to eight. I think we understand now that
we sort of should be adding back EUR5 billion for M&A and diesel, I guess, and EUR3 billion
separate for PowerCo So I guess if you add that back, you get to the like-for-like number that
would have otherwise been your adjusted EBIT -- adjusted free cash flow number in the past, I
guess, 14 to 16.
So -- but at the same time, there's a working capital reversal in that. So if you could just help us
understand a bit more, what's the free cash flow, the structural free cash flow going forward?
Should we always now keep expecting an envelope for M&A? So the reported number will not go
back to a double-digit figure for a while. If you could just give us a bit more color there.
And then secondly, it also relates to China. On the ID model. I understand that you now start
offering the ID.3 from RMB175, which in euro terms, I think, works out to about half the entry point
for what you're selling the car in Germany. So I would just like to understand quite how bad that is
in terms of how much money you might be losing on the vehicle in China? And what's the path to
improvement is there? Oli, already talked about the improvements that are coming with the next
update. But if you could also sort of roll in the profitability element into that. Is it getting quite a bit
better in the near term? Thank you.
A - `Rolf Woller, Head-Group Treasury & Investor Relations `
These are both questions for Arno.A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
I'll start with the cash flow. Look, yes, of course, it's the free cash flow there is M&A and a small
outflow of diesel in it. But if you want to like, look at it from a more close perspective, the typical
cash flow we could expect in the current situation and giving the EBIT guidance, and the upfront
investment for electrification and digitalization would be EUR8 billion to EUR9 billion.
And you theoretically should add the reversal of the situation we had last year on the inventory
side. So that basically leads to EUR12 billion to EUR13 billion adjusted. But in that EUR12 billion to
EUR13 billion or from that EUR12 billion to EUR13 billion, we basically deduct an additional of EUR5
billion for which is reserved for PowerCo, which comes on top to our current core business. And
then that leads us into the guidance of EUR6 to EUR8 billion. There are certain allowances for
M&A of course, but not in the magnitude that we saw like two or three years ago, taking out
PowerCo, of course.
Q - Analyst
Sorry. So this is beyond 2023. Are you saying the envelope for M&A, we should think of that as a
little bit less so that the number will get closer to a EUR10 billion level?
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
I don't want to do a guidance from a base perspective on free cash flow for 2024 and beyond.
But our ambition is, of course, to increase that. We called it clean cash flow in the past and from
the clean cash flow we deduct M&A deal and perhaps what I would expect, perhaps, we give this
at the Capital Market Day also guidance for the clean cash flow, then it becomes more
transparent.
Q - Analyst
Yeah. Thank you, we'd appreciate that.
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
So we will - we thought we make it a little bit less stringent and more complex, and we took that
KPI from our guidance. But that's -- if it's helpful for you, we will reinclude it.
A - `Rolf Woller, Head-Group Treasury & Investor Relations `
A question on China and the profitability of the ID.3.
Yeah, in China, I mean, so there's a lot of discussion around whether we are still disciplined in
terms of pricing or not, for all we can say, we are still disciplined. The incentives we are just giving
now in terms of cash incentives they have been given before, but they were like virtual incentives
that it could change like in the ID.3 stores -- in the virtual ID.3 stores. So from a pricing point of
view, nothing has changed.
But the thing is clear, we have to work on profitability and on the cost side on ID.3, ID.4, ID.6 in
China, both in terms of material costs, in terms of battery, in terms of production cost in order to
increase competitiveness there.
Q - Analyst
Okay. Thank you.A - `Rolf Woller, Head-Group Treasury & Investor Relations `
Thank you, Henning. And we are now, unfortunately, have to come to a close. I would like to thank
all of you for the very vivid discussion. Thank Oli and Arno, actually, for being with us. We meet the
one or the other now at the next virtual equity -- virtual roadshows, yes, we will have coming now
running back with virtual equity stories.
And Q1 will be due on May 4. And then what we are very much looking forward to is the Capital
Markets Day in June, on June 21. Until then, please stay healthy. And whenever there is anything
unanswered, please call us in Volkswagen, and we are very happy to take your questions. Thank
you very much for joining us today. Bye.
A - `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks very much also from my side. Great discussion. Thank you.
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Thank you to all of you for joining. All the best.