Y 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Hello, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Annual Media Analyst and Investor Conference
of Volkswagen AG. At this time, all participants have been placed on a listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions)
For now, let me turn the floor over to `Rolf Woller, Head of Group Treasury and Investor Relations.
`Rolf Woller, Head of Group Treasury and Investor Relations `
Many thanks, Ulrica. Yeah, good morning or good afternoon or good evening from where you
have dialed in. And a warm welcome to the Volkswagen Group's Analyst and Investor conference
2024. With me today here are `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officier, our CEO, and `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer, our CFO, COO. The
presentation we will give is structured in three parts. We will start first with Ollie, who will provide
a brief overview and status update on 2023, followed by Arno, who will guide you through the
financials of 2023, and the outlook for 2024. And the final section is then again, Ollie, with what's
next and closing remarks.
Before we start, let me provide you with a few remarks. You should have received the press
release, the annual report and other related materials, all of which were published this morning. If
you haven't received them, you can find them on our website. In case of any issue, please give us
a call or drop us an email and we will send them straight away to you.
Coming to Page 2, our disclaimer. As a reminder, and as always, the safe harbor language and
other cautionary statements of our presentation will govern today's presentation. I would like to
encourage you to read the disclaimer carefully, since all forward-looking statements are qualified
by this language. In order to maximize our time we have today for the presentation and the Q&A,
I will not read it out loud to you.
And with that, I hand over to Oliver.
`Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officier `Thank you very much, Rolf. We delivered robust results, desirable products and an effective
strategy with a strong focus on execution. The Volkswagen Group is shaping the long-distance
race called transformation from a position of strength. This was an extraordinary achievement.
This achievement was only possible thanks to an exceptional team.
The year 2023 was a real sprint for the Volkswagen Group's more than 680,000 employees
worldwide. They are the DNA of our company and shape it with great passion. This is why I would
like to start this conference call today, saying thank you to every single member of the
Volkswagen Group team member together with the entire executive board. It has been a
convincing performance with great team spirit and overall a strong year.
We look back on an inspiring year 2023. We have great fans all over the world with new products
and exciting anniversaries. We established our 2023 top 10 program. This program defined our
central fields of action, strategically and operationally, with clear responsibilities and ambition
levels with regular reporting on the progress, all of that in a very transparent way. Most
importantly, the Volkswagen Group implemented and delivered along the defined measures.
We reached out major milestones and took key decisions to our future. We are executing, we are
making progress noticeably and measurably, day-by-day and hour-by-hour. The true strength of
the Group and key differentiator is to be found in the strengths of its brands. Our brands
fascinate customers all over the world with an unrivaled product portfolio. This broad portfolio is
unique not only because it offers attractive vehicles in all segments, of which many have been
renewed in 2023.
For example, the new Volkswagen Tiguan, the ID.Buzz, Passat, the Skoda Superb, the Bentley
Bentayga, the Porsche 911 Dakar, the Volkswagen ID.7 and the Lamborghini Revuelto. These are
just a few examples of our fascinating product, novelities in the last year. Our products makes a
difference. At 9.2 million vehicles delivered to customers in 2023, we were 12% up compared to
the previous year. We recorded a strong double-digit growth in Europe and North America in
particular. Our deliveries have also increased in China last year, despite a very demanding
environment.
Our electric vehicles outperformed the strong overall growth in deliveries, with a highly attractive
range we convinced our customers. Compared to the prior year, our BEV deliveries increased by
35% to a total of 771,000 vehicles. In the final quarter of 2023, the share of our BEVs reached
10%. This strong basis and the upcoming launches of some highly attractive new BEV models
make us confident that we will be able to grow our BEV share also in 2024.
Financially, we achieved robust results in challenging 2023. Our strong unit sales performance
resulted in a sizable growth in revenues, which increased by 15% to EUR322 billion. Volume was a
main growth driver, but price and product mix contributed as well. The operating result also
improved to EUR22.6 billion despite substantial headwinds from valuation effects from raw
material derivatives. Excluding those, the operating profit grew to almost EUR26 billion and
resulted in an underlying return on sales of 8%. During quarter three and quarter four, we put
extra efforts on bringing down our working capital, that clearly played off and led to a strong full
year net cash flow to EUR10.7 billion. As a result, our net liquidity came in at very strong solid base
of EUR40.3 billion.
The strong operating performance translated into an increase in net income of 13% to EUR17.9
billion. Earnings per share grew to almost EUR32. And we continue to let our shareholders
participate in the financial success of Volkswagen Group, offering an attractive investment
proposition. The Group executive board and supervisory board will therefore propose a dividendof EUR9 per ordinary share and EUR9.06 per preference share to the annual shareholder
meeting in May.
Before we continue, let me briefly revisit our promises we made at the Capital Markets Day in
June 2023. We have defined action fields that are aligned with our ambitious and the
expectations of the Capital Market. And we made significant progress across all action fields. For
example, our top 10 programs are having an impact. The 2023 results are first testimony to that.
We have further strengthened the management team. We developed a Group-wide sustainability
strategy with the Audi Q6 e-tron and the new Porsche Macan Electric. We have the first models
on the PPE platform ready for market launch. Our battery strategy is right on schedule. With our
mix of combustion engines, plug-in hybrid and pure electric engines, we can adapt flexibly to
customer demand and differentiate from other OEMs. We have a clear plan for Audi and
Volkswagen brand, and now we are starting to execute it. In China, we are stepping up the pace
with local partners and catching up with competition with our in-China for-China strategy. In North
America, we are focusing on greater localization and development and production as a basis for
a stronger presence. In Europe, our home market, we are operating from a position of strength.
Here in particular, we are concentrating our sustainable value creation. Accordingly, we are
adapting production capacity to our core workforce.
We have decided on ambitious performance programs together with all brands and are now
focusing on consequent implementation. In investment planning, our investment planning is
oriented towards the most attractive product profit pools. Management remuneration is mostly
closely aligned with our strategic goals such as the net cash flow targets. The solid financial result
demonstrates the Group's potential and gives us confidence to master a challenging year 2024.
Our transformation is based on a robust financial foundation, which at the same time allows to let
shareholders and employees participate in the success of the Group.
Ladies and gentlemen, we started to deliver across all dimensions. Let's summarize. 2023 was a
year of restructuring. The cleanup work has been completed. We consistently adhered to our
ambitious roadmap by focusing on action fields along the top 10 program. We reached key
milestones and made strategic decisions for a successful future. At the end, an enormously
productive year. In 2024, we aim to stabilize these achievements further executing on our core
decisions in all relevant areas. This will form the basis for an ambitious and accelerated ramp-up
from 2025 on.
I already provided a glimpse of our 2023 financial results. Nevertheless, it's worth taking a closer
look. That's why I now hand over to my colleague Arno, our CFO and COO. Arno, please, it's your
turn.
`Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Yeah. Thanks very much, Oliver. And a warm welcome to everyone on the call. Ladies and
gentlemen, Volkswagen Group once again delivered robust financial results in a demanding
environment. At the same time, we have made further important progress in key areas of our
strategy and strongly advanced our transformation.
Volkswagen is well positioned and operates from a strong financial position with a solid operating
result last year. I would like to thank all employees, who have contributed to these convincing
results and to the progress we've made in implementing our strategy.
Let's now turn to our 2023 financial results in detail. Vehicle sales came in 10% higher at 9.4 million
units. Excluding our JVs in China, vehicle sales advanced even stronger by 18% to 6.3 millionAmerica plus 13%. Sales revenue improved to EUR322 billion in the full year, up by 15%. Again Q4
was the strongest quarter of the year with EUR87 billion in revenues.
Operating results came in on par with prior year level at EUR22.6 billion corresponding to a
margin of 7%. Excluding the overall EUR3.2 billion headwind from valuation effects of our raw
material hedges, we achieved a return on sales of 8%, exactly at the midpoint of our original
guidance of 7.5% to 8.5% giving at the beginning of the year. We consider this to be a solid set of
results in view of the challenges currently facing in our industry and the disruptions in the global
supply and logistics change in the past year.
Earnings before tax grew by 5% to EUR23.2 billion in 2023. Profit after tax improved even
stronger by 13% to almost EUR18 billion, thanks to a lower tax burden. Earnings per share grew by
8%, as minorities increased year-over-year as a result of the Porsche IPO in 2022.
The cash flow situation has improved considerably, due to a stronger operating business and an
excellent working capital management towards year end. Net cash flow in the automotive division
amounted to EUR10.7 billion in 2023, which includes a contribution of EUR5.8 billion in the fourth
quarter alone. Our teams were able to reduce inventories by about EUR5 billion in the final
quarter. Here too, we delivered on our promise at the Capital Markets Day in June last year. The
stronger finish will obviously have implications on our working capital opportunities in 2024, since
a large share of our ambition had already materialized in the final weeks of 2023. Clean net cash
flow totaled to EUR13.5 billion compared to EUR9.2 billion last year. Just as a reminder, to
calculate this KPI, we adjust cash flow for M&A and diesel-related outflows.
Automative net liquidity at a solid EUR40.3 billion stood above our self-imposed target of 10% of
sales revenue by the end of 2023. All in all, a very comfortable position in an industry in
transformation. Compared to the year end 2022, net liquidity declined by about EUR3 billion,
mainly as a result of dividend payments to Volkswagen shareholders in total amount of EUR11
billion. These dividends are truly a proof that our shareholders are participating in the success of
the Volkswagen Group.
Coming to the divisional performance, passenger cars delivered EUR14.7 billion operating result
almost on par with the prior year number. The corresponding margin amounted to 6.7% before
special items. This result is actually an outstanding achievement, thanks to a strongly underlying
performance we were able to nearly compensate the swinging valuation effects of our raw
material hedging portfolio in the magnitude of EUR5 billion. Commercial vehicles continued their
positive earnings trajectory and closed the year with a strong final quarter. Operating results
came in at EUR3.7 billion, which is more than twice the level recorded in 2022.
The financial services division recorded an operating result of EUR3.8 billion, about a third below
the prior year level, which is the result of a normalization of the business after unsustainably high
used car price levels in 2021 and 2022. Needless to say that we took a good care of the residual
value risks.
Let's have a look now at the drivers of the operating result development of our passenger car
business. Volume price mix contributed EUR9.5 billion, EUR7 billion stemmed from strong volume
growth, mix was slightly positive and pricing contributed with EUR2 billion in line with our value
over volume strategy. Exchange rate and derivatives were a significant headwind with a negative
EUR4.8 billion. This was primarily driven by non-cash effective fair value effects of our raw material
hedges outside hedge accounting.
Product costs were overall higher at minus EUR2.6 billion in the full year 2023. However, asEUR0.8 billion. Fixed costs and other costs increased only moderately. This is attributable to
higher R&D costs, the ramp up of new businesses like battery or Scout, higher wages and
inflation. But these effects were partially offset by a rigorous execution of fixed cost reduction
measures, specifically in the overhead cost area.
Within the passenger car segment, all brands contributed to the strong top line growth, to the
underlying operating profit and a solid cash generation. Brand Group Core saw significant year-
on-year improvement in operating result margin and cash flow. Strongly increased sales volume in
Europe and North America translated into 21% higher sales revenue. The operating result grew by
almost 80% to EUR7.3 billion and stands at a margin of 5.3%. Brand Group Core, thus took an
important first step towards achieving its strategic target return of 8%. Brand Volkswagen
achieved a margin of 4.1%, and we are aware that these margins are still below the margins of
some of our competitors. But it's specifically noteworthy that Brand Group Core generated a
cash flow totaling EUR5 billion, corresponding to a cash conversion rate of 77%.
Brand Group Progressive also improved operating profit on an underlying basis. Reported
operating profit was burdened by valuation effects in the magnitude of EUR1.4 billion, mainly
resulting from raw material derivatives. The underlying margin increased to 11%. The margin of
Lamborghini and Bentley of 27.2% and 20.1% respectively are particularly noteworthy here. The
impressive -- this impressively demonstrates the positive leverage from synergies in the Brand
Group on the profitability of these two jewels[ph]. Brand Group Sport Luxury continued its
successful track record and remained strong at 18.6% operating margin.
CARIAD continued to roll out software to a growing vehicle park as planned, which resulted in a
significant increase in contracted licenses of about 30% year-on-year. Losses on operating levels
were up on the previous year due to an accelerated efforts to secure time to market and quality
for upcoming key product launches such as Porsche Macan and the Audi Q6 e-tron, both
presented to the market. Reported net cash flow stood at minus EUR3 billion, but just as a
reminder CARIAD in H1 had benefited from a EUR1 billion intragroup income tax refund, so the
underlying cash out totaled to EUR4 billion in 2023.
Our battery business continued to make fast progress in the ramp-up of the organization as well
as in the construction of Salzgitter plant which is progressing according to plan. In a period under
review, cost for this buildup and higher CapEx led to an operating loss of EUR0.4 billion as well as
a net cash outflow of EUR0.8 billion. We view these upfront investments for our battery activities
as an essential prerequisite for the successful ramp-up of the electric vehicle production.
TRATON delivered a convincing performance on its promises for 2023. Unit sales increased by
11%, supported by a continued robust customer demand and improved supply chains. Strong
volume expansion, positive price and mix effect as well as growth in vehicle service drove sales
revenue up by 16%. Operating margin came in at a strong 8.1%, about twice the level of the
previous year, and this is in particular driven by a strong rebound of MAN and Scania's return to a
double-digit margin of almost 13%. Net cash flow increased significantly to EUR2.7 billion.
Financial services kept the overall contract volume stable. The credit loss ratio was largely
unchanged versus the prior year, despite a worsened macroeconomic environment. Operating
income in 2023 fell by about a third to EUR3.8 billion, corresponding to a margin of 7%. This
decline reflects a meanwhile[ph] normalized business environment with regards to used car
prices and provisioning for residual value risk, as well as the higher interest rate levels.
Now moving on to our China joint ventures, thanks to a strong fourth quarter deliveries to
customers in the full year by up 2%, year-on-year at about 3.2 million vehicles. We were able tofurther strengthen our position in the ICE segment, advancing our market share there. Our BEV
sales accelerated their sales momentum, in particular, supported by an extensive cost work and
improved product substance. As a result, BEV volumes increased by 22% to 191,000 units with
74,000 units in the fourth quarter alone.
The proportionate operating result of our Chinese JVs amounted to EUR2.6 billion, thus holding
up well in a highly challenging competitive environment, particularly in the BEV segment. For the
full year 2024, we expect the market to remain highly competitive during the transition towards
the energy vehicles. Short term, this will adversely affect profitability and we expect a
proportionate operating profit in the range between EUR1.5 billion and EUR2 billion in 2024.
Ladies and gentlemen, overall, we delivered a robust performance in 2023. With a convincing
plan and a robust financial position, we are well prepared to master the transformation of our
company. Our dividend proposal is evidence for this and our strong commitment to let our
shareholders participate in the financial success of the Volkswagen Group. We will propose a
dividend of EUR9.06 per preferred share to the annual general meeting in May, equivalent to a
payout ratio of 28%.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are looking with confidence and optimism into the year 2024, which
brings me to the outlook for 2024. We expect global vehicle sales to slightly increase in 2024. We
aim to gain share in the North American region, whereas it is our target to sustain our position in
Europe. In China, we expect to consciously give share in a highly competitive BEV environment, in
line with our value-over-volume strategy. Our price mix should benefit from numbers of new
model launches, lower material prices and product costs should favor us in 2024, as well as first
positive effects from the execution of our performance programs, not to forget our continuous
fixed cost work.
What we have to offset is in particular the significant ramp-up costs for new models, the
continued upfront investments in our battery business as well as for our fully consolidated China
operations, and an increasing BEV share, which is currently diluting our margins. These factors
translate into a solid financial outlook in a continued demanding environment. We expect sales
revenue to grow by up to 5%. We expect our operating margin before special items in a range
between 7% and 7.5%. Automotive net cash flow should come in within the range of EUR4.5 billion
to EUR6.5 billion. This outlook contains up to EUR6 billion cash outflow for the expansion of our
battery activities on top of our current core business of today. Last but not least, automotive net
liquidity is expected in the bandwidth of EUR39 billion to EUR41 billion in 2024, and with that to
stay on a very solid level.
With regards to our guidance, it should be noted that our starting to the year is expected to be
slower. We are currently experiencing temporary headwinds in particular from a supply constraint
at selected Audi models and a significant amount of new model launches across all brand groups
over the coming two years. However, we expect to catch up in the course of the year, specifically
in the second half.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Volkswagen Group owns a portfolio of some of the most fascinating,
strongest and most valuable brands in our industry. There's no doubt that strong individual brands
will remain a differentiating factor in the future. At the same time, however, we must transform
ourselves into a technology and mobility service group. This means that we need to focus on our
platforms, such as BEV hardware, unified software stack battery mobility and autonomous driving.
The transformation of our company towards electromobility and digitalization requires focused
financial steering. On the one hand, it requires a courageous and smart allocation of resources tofuture topics. On the other hand, we want and will keep our combustion vehicles competitive to
ensure the flexibility we need in an uncertain environment during the transformation phase. This
task is also reflected in our upfront investment ratio.
For the full year 2023, total R&D expenditures within the automotive division amounted to 8.1% of
sales. On CapEx, the Group spent a total of EUR14.4 billion, corresponding to a CapEx ratio of
5.4%. For 2024, we expect the combined R&D plus CapEx ratio in the range between 30.5% and
40.5% and we expect fiscal year 2024 to be the peak year in terms of expenditures.
Looking further out, our primary focus is on realizing group synergies and the gradual phasing out
of upfront investments in our ICE business. This is enabling us to target a lower cumulative spend
for R&D and CapEx over the 2025 to 2029 planning round at the level of EUR170 billion.
We are continuing to invest in the electrification and digitalization of our company. At the same
time, we are doing our homework on the cost side. An improved element of our Group strategy
is to enhance resilience by reducing Group overhead costs. By 2023, compared to 2019, we were
able to reduce the ratio of automotive revenues by in total 3 percentage points. In an industry
that generates a margin of 8% to 10%, this is a significant contribution to the robustness and
success of our company. And this is for sure not the end of the journey. We believe there's virtual
room for improvement, in particular from the consistent execution of our performance program
across all brands.
Ladies and gentlemen, we have a clear plan for the transformation of the Volkswagen Group. We
will continue to invest in the ramp-up of our electric platforms and keep our combustion engine
vehicles competitive during the transition phase. We will continue to systematically develop our
automotive software stack and we continue to invest in future-proof mobility services.
The priorities for 2024 from a financial perspective are also clear. In 2024, we must focus on the
ramp-up of our great new vehicles, on massively improving our cost base, we must make greater
use of synergies within the Group and we need to position ourselves more robust regionally, that
means implement our catch-up program in China and continue to grow profitably in the US.
Thank you so far. And with having said that, back to Oliver.
`Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officier `
Thanks, Arno for your insights. These results form a strong basis for year 2024, which is expected
to be demanding in many aspects. Establishing a Top 10 program was a crucial success factor in
2023. Also in 2024, we will be focusing on clear structures and clear goals. The Top 10 program is
and will remain our central management tool with expanded content. It is clear, simple,
unambitious, unambiguous and that makes it efficient. And that is why the Volkswagen Group
brands have adopted this logic. It enables us to manage it in an uniformed manner and makes
our activities significantly more effective.
2024 will be a record year in terms of model launches. We are preparing for the biggest product
offensive in the history of the Volkswagen Group. We are planning with not less than 30 new
models across the brands. These cars will electrify and excite customers and fans across the
globe. We have already announced the market launch of all-new electric Porsche Macan, the Audi
Q6 e-tron and the Volkswagen ID.7 Tourer. Our focus is also on rolling out further new PPE models
on the market. The premium platform for our electric vehicles demonstrates the Group's
competitiveness.In the upcoming planning rounds, we will continue to focus on the strategic direction of the
company, a strong product strategy, the performance programs for our brands, strategic
investment planning, continued realistic volume planning for the plant, occupancy and
management compensation in line with our strategic goals. These measures will have an impact
on our result. They are significant growth drivers for cash flow, returns and sales. At the same
time, they will enable us to actively reduce our investment in the coming years.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Volkswagen Group is facing major challenges. This, in our hands, to be
successful in this challenging environment. Because the Volkswagen Group has immense
potential. We completed the structural cleanup work in 2023.
For 2024, we are setting clear rearguards[ph] and priorities with our Top 10 program. We will do
the right things right. We are entering the year of the biggest product offensive in the Group's
history. 30 new models will be launched in 2024. That makes us confident. 2024 is a foundation
for an accelerated ramp-up from 2025. We have a huge responsibility here and we strongly
intend to live up that for our society, our company, our employees and the environment. The
Volkswagen Group will deliver reliably, fast and sustainably. Volkswagen takes responsibility.
You can see this for yourself again in April, as part of the Beijing Auto show. We are organizing a
Capital Markets Day under the motto In China, For China. The focus will obviously be on our
position and strategy on the Chinese market and how we aim to win in the new era of ICVs. This
is our clear target that we would like to showcase to international stakeholders, investors and
analysts. I look forward to exchanging ideas with you all.
And for now, my colleague Arno and I look forward to your questions. Thank you very much for
your attention.
Questions And Answers
A - `Rolf Woller, Head of Group Treasury and Investor Relations `
Thank you, Ollie. Thank you, Arno. (Operator Instructions) Very good. We start with `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank
from Deutsche Bank. Tim, the floor is yours.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Yeah. Good afternoon gentlemen. It's Tim from Deutsche Bank. I would have two questions,
please. The first one, Ollie, is probably for you. You run an extremely complex business.
Economies of scale are very helpful, but speed and agility are completely of essence here. We
know you are a big fan of partnerships. Can this mean that you're going to replace some of your
vertical integration and ownerships over time? And in the end, you always use sport analogies.
Most football clubs, they don't make their own jerseys, they don't make their own buses that
drives[ph] to games. Do you think VW should be as big and complex as it is today in the mid to
long run or rather focus on the core business of producing and selling passenger cars over time?
And then secondly, Arno, I guess, perhaps that's for you. On the margin and free cash flow
outlook there was obviously quite a bit of the discussion when the talk[ph] came out. Last year
many thought you were too aggressive. Now you're probably a bit too cautious. P911 guides for
200 bps range. Your range is much narrower. Why did you decide to only guide for 50 bps
range? And how should we think about cadence of the development considering a lot of product
ramp-ups are actually still to come? And the same for free cash flow, can you perhaps walk us
through the assumptions there? Thank you.A - `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officier `
Yeah. Tim, may I start, and coming to your question about vertical integration or partnerships, and
there we are leveraging in every technical area where it's useful to have a partnership or what is
our core competence and everything watching on the aspect of speeds you mentioned, which
means a lot of us and is one important driver in this transformation. Giving you some examples, in
terms of battery, for example, we decided to make a strong vertical integration in terms of
developing battery cells and producing them. And there we are aiming a share of around 50% in-
house and 50% together with partners around the world, depending on the different regions of
the world. And then partners are today MG[ph], for example, or CIDL[ph]. We have the
partnership in China for Gotion. And then we decided to make our own battery factories in
Salzgitter, in Valencia or in Canada.
CARIAD is another example in software. And there, as you know, we are working closely together
with Apple. But also important are big partnerships. And there we are now in good talks with big
partners, having reorganized[ph] our partner landscape and focusing more on single big partners
than many different, different partners for remaining speed, but having the power also of these
big partnerships.
Autonomous driving is an example for partnerships in China with Horizon Robotics, Mobileye from
Israel, or the Bosch activities for the future in Europe, or in car business, deciding clearly in China
what we are doing by our own with our platforms, MEB plus PPE and in the future the SSP, but also
having partnerships with XPENG or SAIC. So for us, in terms of deciding what we are doing by our
own or where we choose a vertical integration, it's about speed, quality and know-how. And I
think we can't and we don't want to do everything by our own and leveraging where we do have
the biggest opportunities.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Do you need to build trucks and sell them over time, Oliver, if I can ask directly?
A - `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officier `
Yeah, up to now, we are quite successful with our trucks and profit margin has increased with a
turnaround of MAN. And I think in terms of complexity, it does not slow down our activities in the
car business. And we think with a complete portfolio, we are well positioned. What we will bring in
the future depends also a bit on the development of the profitability in our truck group and the
share price. But today I think we are well positioned with all these being active in all segments.
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Yeah. Tim, I take the second question. Yeah, you mentioned several topics, and I start with the
notion of seeing -- having been very ambitious last year. Look, there were a lot of discussions
about our deliveries outlook we had. And so on the other hand, the sales revenue guidance, we
even overachieved. And looking at the deliveries, I mean, perhaps you realize we didn't even give
a guidance anymore. So it's not a relevant factor for us. We gave a guidance of sales revenue,
which we think is robust, up to 5%, which is absolutely in line with our value-over-volume strategy.
So we don't want to overpace on the top line, but rather start from -- with the robust planning. So
I take this, at least for this part, as a compliment. On the second, yeah, if you look at the
remaining KPIs, I think 7% to 7.5% is a robust outlook in a challenging environment specifically with
all the upfront investments, with all the upfront costs. Also, as said, Audi is temporarily having
headwind from supply constraint, specifically on 6 and 8-cylinder models. And so from today'sAnd coming to the cash flow, I would like to elaborate a little bit on that. First and foremost, you
have to take the cash flow from 2023 and 2024 together in perspective, because we were really,
really -- our teams were really successful to ramp down the inventories we have been building up
during the year 2023. Remember when we had the Capital Markets Day, we said there were like
bottlenecks in the logistics chain of finished vehicles. And this basically led to a cash flow of
EUR10.7 billion last year. And looking to the guidance of this year or for 2024, EUR4.5 billion to
EUR6.5 billion, so let's say, in average EUR5.5 billion in the midpoint, it looks underwhelming in the
first glance, but in that -- yeah, in that EUR5.5 billion, it's, I would say, a number of more than EUR6
billion earmarked for the ramp-up of our battery business, both in terms of CapEx to ramping up
the three plants at the same time in Salzgitter, in Valencia and also in Ontario. And so there are
also some funds earmarked for potential M&A or investments to secure raw materials. So if you
theoretically -- and this is a business we don't have today. So if theoretically, if you add the EUR6
billion to the EUR5.5 billion, you add more like somewhere around EUR10 billion to EUR12 billion of
net cash flow. And this is a very solid cash flow for a company in transformation.
A - `Rolf Woller, Head of Group Treasury and Investor Relations `
Maybe one word on the guidance of the earnings development in 2024.
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Yeah. As indicated, we -- due to the model launches, also to the temporary headwinds at Audi as
a supply constraint, we expect a rather weaker Q1. You should expect Q1 also below the guidance
corridor we gave. And we are planning to catch up during the remainder of the year with first
positive effects or more positive effects kicking in from our efficiency program and eventually in
the second half of the year with a ramp up of great new models. E-Macan, Q6 e-tron, ID.7 Tourer
while in the first quarter, and also in the first half of the year, we have a major headwind from
ramp-up cost from this effect.
A - `Rolf Woller, Head of Group Treasury and Investor Relations `
Thank you, Arno. Hope, Tim, this has answered your questions.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Yeah. Thank you very much.
A - `Rolf Woller, Head of Group Treasury and Investor Relations `
Thank you, Tim. The next one in line would be `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs. George?
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Yeah. Good afternoon and thank you for taking my questions. The first question I had was with
respect to some of the strategic initiatives you announced back at the Capital Markets Day last
year, specifically with respect to Scout, given the announcements from some of the US domestics
around their own EV strategies, as well as the soft sales performance and financials of some of
the battery electric vehicle startups in North America. Has that led you at all to reassess your
Scout strategy or at least the timing of your investments there, or is everything still very much as
conveyed six months ago?
The second question I had was with respect to the M&A, and I appreciate the comments you've
just made around acquiring certain aspects like raw materials, which you maybe didn't have
previously access to. But if we look at the M&A, it was more than EUR2 billion in 2023, more thanEUR3 billion in 2022, and obviously, is going to be around EUR4 billion this year. Do you think we
should really think of M&A as one-time in nature for Volkswagen? Or is it actually just part of the
strategic investment you need to make given your scale and obviously the ongoing evolution of
the industry? Thank you.
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Yeah, thank you, George. We are well aware of the discussion around electromobility currently in
the market, at least in two major markets, Europe and US. But we are convinced the future will be
electric and we continue to invest accordingly. In the meantime, we keep our combustion engine
cars competitive to be flexible. So basically we invest in the last generation, as I said before. But
we haven't made major changes on our investment strategy on our electrification strategy, and
also ramp up so far. Of course, we will monitor that closely. This is specifically true for the
investments in our battery capacity. We review whether we need the capacity, specific blocks and
specific capacities within these three factories at certain points of time, and we are prepared to
be flexible there.
And of course, we also reviewed the Scout project. In terms of scout, we must say, look, this is a
once in a lifetime opportunity for us to grow in the US. For a long time, we had really difficulties to
enter major segments, and the C-pickup[ph] segment in the US is one of the most promising and
also potentially, at least from outside, in point of view, profitable segment. And in order to get a
more robust footprint globally, we really want and need to seize the growth opportunities in the
US. This C-pickup segment and also SUV, is in terms of profit pool is -- are the most promising
segments. And it was really not possible for us to conquer this segment, or hardly possible for us
to conquer this segment in the combustion engine world, because we were just lacking scale.
And now the segment is turning electric, perhaps not as fast as everybody assumed, but it --
eventually it will turn electric and this is our unique chance. We have a great brand, we have the
technology, we have the capacity for batteries in Ontario, and so we still pursue this fascinating
project Scout.
A - `Rolf Woller, Head of Group Treasury and Investor Relations `
Fine with that, George?
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Yeah, I'm sorry. Just with respect to M&A maybe being kind of more of an underlying and
continuous part of the investment plan rather than something we should treat as one-off. Thank
you.
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Yeah, George, thanks for the question. Look, of course we do not M&A planning for like four or
five years ahead, but in a magnitude of EUR2 billion to EUR3 billion to EUR4 billion, let's say, EUR3
billion, this is something one could expect year-over-year because it fits also to the strategy, what
Oliver said, we carefully review what competences do we have internally, what competences are
in the market, how do we partner with outside players who has more other competence than
they have in certain fields. And so this is something you might model in your cash flow planning
going forward year-over-year.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Great. Thank you very much.A - `Rolf Woller, Head of Group Treasury and Investor Relations `
Thank you, George. And we are coming to the next question. It comes from `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS from
UBS.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS `
Yeah. Good afternoon also from my side and thank you for taking my questions. The first one I'd
like to ask is regarding CO2 compliance 2025 in Europe. I would like to understand from your
perspective, what is your strategy here. It looks like you have to increase your EV sales a lot next
year, which might be difficult in a market that seems to be oversupplied and under a lot of pricing
pressure. So, I want to understand, is pooling an option that you consider? How much of a
headwind could this become earnings wise in 2025? And also, when you talk about regulation in
the media call I heard you mentioning, you ask regulators and policymakers for a bit more
flexibility. Was that only a statement as far as the 2035 combustion engine ban is concerned, or
are you effectively asking also for more flexibility in regards to the 2025 regulation 2025, not
2035.
And my second question is on markets. Can you help us, as far as China is concerned, you're
putting obviously a quite significantly more cautious view into your guidance, what is volume, what
is pricing here? I understand there is a consolidation effect also in the more negative outlook? But
you sounded pretty positive about the combustion engine vehicle business until recently. So I
want to understand what's going on here. And as far as Europe is concerned, you mentioned in
the media call the backlog has now normalized. But I sense you're still kind of constructive on
Europe later in the year. Is that mostly product cycle driven? Do you see any inflection points on
the macro fund that could lead to a better demand situation in the course of the year? Thank you.
A - `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officier `
Yeah. Patrick, may I start with your CO2 question. First of all, and I mentioned in my speech today,
that we are expecting from the politics in the EU clear regulations, where we have a clear
orientation, because we are a more long-term business and we need planning transparency
there. And all these discussions are not useful. And on the other side, depending on the
framework we have in the different market, it's important to adjust the CO2 targets, and to think
what is realistic, on the one hand[ph].
Looking to 2025, on the one hand side, we have a strong product offensive. We will have or
expecting a growth in electromobility, especially because of our product. And on the other side,
we will leverage, depending on the volume in between pooling and also where it's profitable to
work with incentives to avoid the CO2 payments we would have in '25. And then, so we will plan
step by step. First of all, what is important for us launching now the new products, then we will
mention the response in the market. The first product we are launching right now, we are getting
very positive response. Yesterday in the Porsche press conference, I mentioned the positive
order intake, I mean, in the first weeks of over 10,000 units for the Macan only, and from
Volkswagen and from Audi and all the other brands. And so that's the basis. And at the end, we
will leverage in between all the drivers to avoid payments.
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Yeah, Patrick, in addition to what Oliver just said, this ramp-up of electrification in Europe and
worldwide in Europe, this is factored in in our guidance and -- margin guidance and also on our
long-term guidance for the brand and the Brand Group. Look, we come from 8% this year, guidethen 2024, there will be a lot of new cars coming, but specifically in the second half of the year,
which will give us tailwind for 2025.
In terms of margin, yes, electric cars are margin dilutive still. And with the ramp up, this basically
puts a challenge. It's basically a headwind. But look, this is what's factored in -- for example, in the
margin guide of Brand Volkswagen. The margin guidance is 6.5% in 2026. Look, let's assume they
make EUR100 billion turnover sales. So it is EUR6.5 billion. But they shoot for a EUR10 billion
improvement program, in efficiency program, in gross measures. And one of the component is to
compensate for a higher BEV share. But with like scale increasing, with product substance even
more increasing, and also -- with also more cars in the smaller segment, ID.2, with LFP batteries,
the margins will improve as well. So overall, yes, we will increase BEV share, and -- but this is all
factored in in our long-term margin guidance now.
In China, China is a slightly different case. In China, we really see two markets. On the ICE market
-- in the ICE market, we are rather strong. We even gain market share. I think we gained more
than -- we jumped over 20% last year and see strong demand. Yes, there's also some pressure
on the margins, but overall the business is very, very healthy.
In terms of BEVs, we always said we have to catch-up. We set up a program to improve the cars,
both in terms of ADAS, driving assistance function with Horizon Robotics, together with
ThunderSoft in-car infotainment, we bring an LFP battery. But that takes time, that takes some
quarters. And also in 2026, kicks in really two new great products that we developed together
with XPENG. And in between, from today until, I would say, 2026, we make sound compromises
between margin and volume. And this is why I said, or we said, we are deliberately prepared to
give up some more share in the next two to three years, I would say, two years. And from 2027
onwards, we want to pick up also shares significantly in the BEV segments, in the BEV market. So
this is our path in China going forward.
A - `Rolf Woller, Head of Group Treasury and Investor Relations `
Thank you. Very good. And just to be precise, 8% was the best share (Technical Difficulty) firmly
inside with our balanced value over volume approach. Thank you, Patrick. Next question comes
from `Mike Tyndall, Analyst, HSBC from HSBC.
Q - `Mike Tyndall, Analyst, HSBC `
Yeah, thanks. It's Mike from HSBC. Two questions, if I may. Just the first one around launch costs.
30 new models coming this year. I just wonder if you can give us some sense of the actual
magnitude of the costs that you're factoring in for those vehicles. And also on those new
vehicles, how should we think about pricing on the other side? Are we -- is it fair to assume the
content levels in those products will go up and we'll see a price increase? Are we likely to see
prices go up by more than the associated content?
And then the second question is around tariffs, and I guess, two real perspectives on that. One of
your counterparts suggested that Chinese tariffs should be lowered and increase competition,
curious to know what your perspective is on that. And then also what are you thinking in terms of
a potential tariff situation coming from the US? How are you prepared for that? Thanks.
A - `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officier `
May I start with the launching situation? First of all, we are planning over 30 models all over our
brands and around the half are combustion and hybrid versions and the other one electric ones.
It's correct, that we have this launching cost technically, but also with marketing in the markets andit's included in our preview. And on the other side, what makes 2024 so ambitious is a so-called V
effect. On the one hand side we have to run out the previous generation and to ramp up the new
generations. And there we are coming step by step with all our derivatives and the regional
introduction. And this makes this year ambitious in terms of volume, but leads[ph] us to greater
opportunities from 2025 onwards, and we will be with all derivatives and regional products in the
markets.
In terms of pricing, that's right. Most of our products we are putting into more content, and for
example, the Macan will have 8% more content. And then on the other side, we will be able also
to lift prices. That's depending a bit on the segments and how the markets react. And there we
have a specific solution, market by market. But the aim is to lift pricing and content.
In terms of tariffs, we don't know what will happen in the US. For us, it is important to have a free
world trade. We are concerned of rising of protectionism. And we think when you start
protectionism in one region of the world and that affects Europe, and also when we look to
China, then you will affect protectionism on the other side. And therefore, we are fighting for free
and fair trade worldwide and talking also to our government.
Q - `Mike Tyndall, Analyst, HSBC `
Got it. Thank you very much, Oliver.
A - `Rolf Woller, Head of Group Treasury and Investor Relations `
Thank you, Mike. Next question comes from Justin[ph] from Federated Hermes. Justin, please go
ahead.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Hello. Thank you very much. And I thought it was a very good presentation this morning, which we
really appreciate it. And I have two questions. Earlier today, you presented a well thought out
strategy which strongly features sustainability and reinforces the elements of nature, your
workforce, society and business. And it feels like this is a step forward for the company. And we
welcome the direction of travel. Reducing the company's impact on climate change is a big driver
behind that strategy. And including I noted that you're bringing forward the company's net zero
ambition from 2050 to 2040. And my first question is that for such a material topic, for one of
the world's biggest carbon emitters, does the executive committee believe it has sufficiently
explained how the company has handled the impact of its new climate ambitions in the accounts,
with little more than half a page stating your climate ambition has limited impact on the
consolidated financial statements?
My second question relates to the audit report, where investors rely on an independent
assessment of the company's handling of the accounts, and for such a material topic as climate, I
noted that the company's auditor continues to make no mention of climate and how it has
considered climate in its audit report. As responsible investors, we expect auditors to explain how
this material topic has been considered and if the decision is made that it's not a key audit
matter, we expect the auditors to explain this. Could you outline the discussions that the
company that you have had with the auditor regarding the handling of climate, and as a
management team, are you comfortable that your auditor has made no comments on how it
assessed climate within its audit? Thank you.
A - `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officier `Yeah. May I start, Justin? For us, it was important to sharpen our sustainability strategy, and put it
to the next level. And we call it regenerate+. And we feel directly responsible to fight against
climate change. And you can see it in all aspects we are reacting in our company through the
whole value chain, starting with the development of our cars, which level of recycling materials we
are using, what energy is used for our materials, it's a whole value chain with our suppliers, which
has an importance. Then of course, our own production where we are already using 100%
renewable energy in our European plants, that is important for us and also our products and our
strong electrification strategy behind the investments and partnerings we are doing, for building
new renewable energy sources. So overall, we thought that is important to define more
ambitious goals. Therefore, we presented today the 2040 approach.
In terms of audit for all the sustainability issues, we have now a very clear structure with target
fields for all dimensions. I presented this morning, and also linked to all our brands, when it comes
to the ESG criteria. And for us, it is important to work there with the full transparency and showing
year by year the progress.
In terms of your second question about the audit in China we have done, for us, it is important
that we work with our understanding of values all over the world, the same to our partners. And
also by contract in China,, it is defined, for example, in terms of human rights, that we are driving
the business with our understanding of values. And therefore, when there are observations from
the media or from other people, we check them. And for us, it was also important not only
checking them by our own, asking an external independent auditor to check the situation. Up to
now, we haven't seen any aspect which is going against the human rights policy we do have. But
on the other side, we are also considering maybe further steps together with our partner in
terms of an economical evaluation. Driving there in the Xinjiang region is very small, below 200
people, comparing to the 680,000 people we have worldwide. And therefore, it was convincing
for MSCI that the audit went well. That is one point. But at the end, being always in the critics, we
have to think to go further on it. The most important aspect for us right now is carrying the
people there. That is our responsibility and then taking a decision together with our partner, and
there we have good progress in our talks together with our partner. Thank you.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Yeah. Perhaps if I can fully explain myself on that last one. But I was more looking at the auditor,
Ernst & Young, who have audited your financial statements, and the fact that they have made no
comment about how it has assessed climate within the accounts. And they continue to say
nothing about climate. And it's a key issue for us and we would like them to be making some
statements. So I guess, the question really is what discussions have you had as a management
team with your auditor around the climate, and the way in which they've handled climate, and the
fact that they're currently not stating anything in the accounts in their audit around how they've
handled climate. It was more to that point. I appreciate the response you gave on the human
rights and supply chain. And we're definitely following that very closely. This one was more around
the financial audit.
A - `Rolf Woller, Head of Group Treasury and Investor Relations `
Justin, may I suggest that we take this with us and approach you directly on that on how the
auditor treated the climate question and how we responded to it. Is that fine?
Q - Unidentified Participant
Yes, that would be fine. Very keen to follow.A - `Rolf Woller, Head of Group Treasury and Investor Relations `
Very good.
A - `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officier `
And adding to this, we will provide very clear, with full transparency, all the new targets we have
defined and for all dimensions at the end, also to the auditor, and we can clarify the point you
have got for this audit report and giving you the details, but everything to come based on the
regenerate+ full transparency from our side about the progress.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Excellent. Thank you.
A - `Rolf Woller, Head of Group Treasury and Investor Relations `
Thank you, Justin. Next question comes from `Michael Punzet, Analyst, DZ Bank from DZ Bank.
Q - `Michael Punzet, Analyst, DZ Bank `
Yes, thank you. Good morning. I have one question or two questions on the performance plan.
First one is, should we expect any kind of burdens in 2024, like restructuring provisions? And if so,
can you give us any kind of guidance which amount we should expect? And the second one is
when we will get some, let's say, more artifacts[ph] on the measurements for the individual
brands?
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Yeah, Michael, in terms of burdens, what we currently have agreed on is basically an early
retirement program or all -- early retirement programs for specific age groups. And the way it
works, this early retirement program, you book basically or it's hitting the P&L contract by
contract. So there's huge programs in place and we budgeted in 700 -- several hundred million of
basically headwind for that. But it's in already and it's -- basically it's booked contract by contract.
This is where we stand so far in terms of headwind from the performance program.
Artifacts[ph], I mean, we already started to deliver on the program. Look, we announced that we
stopped hiring in major parts of Volkswagen AG, for example, the allocation of plants is already
designed in this direction. We make productivity improvements. And for example, we took out a
shift in our electrical plant in Zwickau to optimize capacity. So a lot of measures are already
implemented already. And the major proof point for me will be margin of Brand Volkswagen and
Brand Group Core in year 2024. And specifically on Brand Group level, a next step in profitability,
we aim for 6% to 7% margin, which will be -- would be a significant step forward -- to be very
precise 6% to 7% on Brand Group level, not on Brand Volkswagen. Brand Volkswagen will give
their margin guidance tomorrow. But this is obviously in line then with Brand Group.
Q - `Michael Punzet, Analyst, DZ Bank `
Okay, maybe two clarification questions. 6% to 7% for the Core Group is already the target for
this year 2024?
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Correct, Michael. This is target 2024. The midterm target is 8% for Brand Group Core.Q - `Michael Punzet, Analyst, DZ Bank `
Okay. And the second one is the several hundred million you have already budgeted in for the
early retirement, that is -- will be adjusted. That is not included in the current margin guidance.
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
This is included already.
Q - `Michael Punzet, Analyst, DZ Bank `
Okay. So you will not adjust for that?
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Not for this program. Not for the early retirement program.
Q - `Michael Punzet, Analyst, DZ Bank `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Rolf Woller, Head of Group Treasury and Investor Relations `
Thank you, Michael. As we are running a bit out of time. Next one is Horst. Horst, may I ask you
one quick question so that Harald has a chance to be the last one in line?
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
Yes, of course we can do that.
A - `Rolf Woller, Head of Group Treasury and Investor Relations `
Thank you.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
I have got one more question then for Arno, especially on the guidance. So when I consider your
guidance, the 7% to 7.5% operating margin guidance, and I look at the same time at the revenue
guidance, up to plus 5%. It would be interesting to get a feeling what means up to 5%. Because
this up to -- if you were raising revenues by 5%, you would basically increase revenues by EUR16
billion. If I calculate a 20% operating leverage on that, it takes me to something like more than
EUR3 billion operating profit increase. At the same time, you target for the Brand Group Core
here, this 6% to 7%. You had this more than EUR3 billion of hedging losses in 2023 and also
significant negative product costs. So therefore, to me still the guidance looks cautious, this 7% to
7.5%. Could you please explain where there's potential upside in 2024 and where you have taken
on this Group level really the cautious assumptions?
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Yeah, Horst, thanks for your question. I mean, if we say on sales revenue up to 5%, I think the
best guess would be to take the midpoint, which is yes, might be cautious, but we had the
discussion a year before and we think it's for our business and for, I would say, the motivation of
the performance programs and also motivation to lower fixed cost, it's much better to rather plan
with a caution top line and not over pace it. And yeah, in terms of, I would say, theoretical EBIT
bridge, there should be positive from mix and small positive from volume. Obviously, mixbecause we bring specifically in the BEVs, we bring really strong products. E-Macan, Q6 e-tron,
also ID.7 Tourer are from a mixed point of view versus the average BEVs positive. Then we bring
also the new Tiguan is hitting the road, Passat is hitting the road. So that helps mix in Brand
Volkswagen.
Yeah, and then on the headwind side, we have still inflation on fixed cost and we have a
significant headwind from the ramp-up of the 30 models Oliver mentioned this morning. So --
and this is how we end up with the 7% to 7.5%, as said before, in the current environment. Also
with ramping up our BEVs worldwide, in terms of share, we view this as a solid guidance.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
Yeah. Just to clarify, so the hedging losses will completely reverse, product cost is going to be
also a tailwind and pricing is negative, but you don't want to quantify that again.
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
In a theoretical bridge, we reverse the headwind from hedging, that's the case. And also we
expect a small positive on the product side. Yes.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
Okay. All right. And pricing negative but you don't want to specify that right?
A - `Rolf Woller, Head of Group Treasury and Investor Relations `
Not at the moment Horst. Thank you.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
Okay. All right. Thank you.
A - `Rolf Woller, Head of Group Treasury and Investor Relations `
Thank you. So the last one from Harald. Harald, ideally with a closed question where we can
answer yes or no. Harald?
Q - `Harald Hendrikse, Analyst, Citigroup `
Hello?
A - `Rolf Woller, Head of Group Treasury and Investor Relations `
Yes, now we can hear you.
Q - `Harald Hendrikse, Analyst, Citigroup `
All right. Yeah, just last question. My big. So on your company, your free cash flow last year was
over 60% of your current market capitalization. But then your spend is obviously roughly the same
number. EUR37 billion a year is obviously an enormous number. It's bigger than all of your
competitors. The competitors also spend a lot of money on battery factories and stuff like that,
but they maybe do it in joint ventures so it's not on their balance sheet or they use more
partnerships. You've talked about more partnerships and stuff today particularly CARIAD is
potentially exciting I think, but also in battery and other parts of the business. How much do you
think you can save off of this current peak level? You talk about 14% to 11%. But I have a lot ofquestions on literally IB today asking me when is this going to happen? Is it ever going to happen?
You heard the question on the M&A, which sounds like another increase in spending. Do you
understand the frustration that investors have? You have this incredible potential. Can you give us
some cadence on whether you'll be able to bring those investment levels down and whether we
should expect that to drop through to the cash flow in the next two or three years?
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
I can be -- sorry, in the sake of time, I can be very brief on that. We stick to our plan to bring that
number down in relative terms to 11% in 2027, with the run out of combustion engine investments,
and eventually we target for 9% towards 2030, as indicated in the Capital Markets Day, which is
then absolutely competitive.
A - `Rolf Woller, Head of Group Treasury and Investor Relations `
And that includes every M&A spending we would plan for.
A - `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officier `
And we should expect those savings to drop to the free cash flow or there are other things that
that money would have to be spent on.
A - `Rolf Woller, Head of Group Treasury and Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you, Harald. I think we have to close --
Q - `Harald Hendrikse, Analyst, Citigroup `
All right. Thank you.
A - `Rolf Woller, Head of Group Treasury and Investor Relations `
Thank you. Thank you very much for dialing in and for hanging in with us. We are very much
looking forward to catch up now during the quarter. First quarter is also around, will be reported
on April 30. And yeah, wish you all a very good afternoon and look forward catching up. Thank
you.
A - `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officier `
Thanks to all.
Operator
The conference is no longer being recorded.