Y 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Sebastian Rudolph, Vice President, Global Group Communications `
Dear colleagues, a warm welcome to the Annual Media Conference of Volkswagen. This time,
we're in Autostadt in Wolfsburg, which is a place for events for families and lovers of cars. And
this year, it's also here for the automotive for the annual media conference. Great to have you
here or online in our virtual livestream.
2024 was a very dynamic year, be it the product drive, be it strategic things that needed to be
fixed or financial resilience. We'll hear much more by our CEO, `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officer; and by our CFO of
the Group, `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer, who at the same time is also the COO. Before we come to the numbers,
the data and the facts, we would like to give you an emotional start with our products. (Video
Presentation)
`Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officer `
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to welcome you to our annual media conference
here of the Volkswagen Group. Now, it's strong product, it's passion, it's strength, and a very
clear vision, you've just been able to see it on the screen behind me, and that is precisely what
our company is about.
In a moment, we are going to get into a dialogue with you, but before we do that, our CFO Arno
Antlitz and myself would like to say a few things to set the scene. 2024 was an ambitious year for
the Volkswagen Group, but also a landmark year. When we look back, we see solid financial
results, important strategic steps taken and an unparalleled model push. The Volkswagen Group
has shown that our company has strong fundamentals and indeed we are prepared for the
challenges and for the opportunities of the future.2024 was a year of crucial decisions for the Volkswagen Group. We decided to strategically
consolidate our position of strength and 2025 will be a year in which we accelerate, a year in
which the new strength of the Volkswagen Group becomes visible, becomes tangible, becomes
alive in a very specific way.
When it comes to our financials, we ended 2024 with solid results in a challenging environment
with fierce competition. And this financial stability now gives us the necessary leeway to continue
to invest in the future and also to pursue our strategic goals.
To achieve these goals, we must continue to work in a disciplined manner. And what that
specifically means is that, we will continuously improve our product, we will further increase our
quality, we optimized our -- optimize our cost setup, we boost our productivity, increase our
profitability, and then also strengthen our financial robustness. And really it is up to us to develop
our full potential. We have a very clear vision for that, which says that by 2035, the Volkswagen
Group aims to be the global automotive tech driver, so a company that is driving technologies in
the automotive industry.
What gives us the self confidence to have such ambitions? Well, it's our strong brands; it's our
unique combination of a global footprint and local manufacturing expertise, and it's also our focus
on our own qualities in combination with strong partners, which are the best in their fields. So we
are agile, we're willing to change, and then also we are pursuing this strategy to leverage our
economies of scale efficiently, strongly in areas that are very important for our transformation, like
software, like batteries and platforms and all of that clearly is supported by a capable and
passionate team.
The key steering instrument for our activities is our Top 10 program. Those programs have
measurable milestones, clear responsibilities and a systematic roadmap. In 2024, we achieved
the goals we set ourselves, and in some cases actually faster than we had planned.
An important milestone was a qualitative leap in software development. We've restructured our
own software company, CARIAD, and we have strong partners, Rivian in the US and Xpeng in
China. In China, we've picked up speed with a new strategy, and in North America, we've also
pushed ahead with our growth strategy.
The Zukunft Volkswagen agreement was an important step in our home market. It's the
foundation for an economically successful future at Volkswagen and also at our German plants
and locations. In other words, we provide quality made in Germany at competitive cost. We are
convinced that this is possible. Across all of our brands, we have launched more than 30 new,
exciting models. It's the most extensive product push in the company's history; great vehicles
across all segments, significantly improved quality and a sharper brand design, and we're already
now receiving a lot of positive feedback from our customers, which is very important for us, but
also from the international media.
2024, we further improved on our competitive format, if you will, hard and consistent work and
preparation, according to a structured plan, just as an ambitious athlete would do and that is
precisely our aspiration. We're not going to let up.
And in 2025, this new strength of the Volkswagen Group will become visible. It will become
tangible. Our product push continues with another 30 new models across all of our brands. They
will be launched in this year at the IAA Motor Show. Our brands will be focusing on the fully digital
small electric cars. We have a world premiere to show their vehicles for around EUR25,000,
affordable e-mobility, in other words, from the Volkswagen Group for everyone.In China, Audi is launching a model push with our partner SAIC and we're also starting battery cell
production in Salzgitter. Our autonomous ID.Buzz shuttles are reaching production maturity now.
And thanks to our intensive cost efforts and our investment discipline, we're now focusing on
what is really important, technology meets efficiency, in other words.
The Volkswagen Group is driving innovation forward. It remains profitable. Mobility is undergoing a
radical change. As the Volkswagen Group, we want to be the driving force behind this change
globally.
We are determined and we are self confident because we have strong products. We are well
equipped with the right technologies that we have for the challenges and opportunities for the
future, but we have to continue to work now with discipline. We want to remain financially robust
and to maintain our agency. We're moving at a rapid pace to shape the successful future for this
unique group together across all brands in all regions.
Thank you so much for your attention, and now my colleague `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer, our CFO and our COO
of the Volkswagen Group, will also now give you a brief overview of our financials. So Arno, you
have the floor, please.
`Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Yes. Thank you, Oliver. Warm welcome here in Wolfsburg and to Autostadt and everyone who is
here online. Now, ladies and gentlemen, in 2024, we took important strategic decisions and we
achieved key milestones. With progress we have made in the various fields ranging from
software to China and labor costs, we have laid the foundation for making the Volkswagen Group
more competitive and financially robust. I would like to take the opportunity to thank all of our
employees for their dedication and commitment.
Against the backdrop of a challenging competitive environment, we have succeeded in delivering
a respectable overall result. Vehicle sales in the full year 2024 totaled 9 million units, slightly
below the previous year's figure. We are feeling the effects of intense price competition in China.
In the rest of the world, our vehicle sales were at about the prior-year level.
Despite the fall in vehicle sales, our sales revenue rose to about EUR325 billion as a result of the
improved sales revenue of our financial services division. Our operating profit was EUR19.1 billion,
corresponding to an operating margin of 5.9%. The operating result was burdened by costs for
the ongoing renewal of our product range, an increase in fixed costs and restructuring expenses.
Without these non-operating effects, we achieved an operating margin of 6.7% for the full-year
2024.
Passenger cars achieved an operating result of EUR11.4 billion. The operating margin was at 5.3%,
about 1.5 percentage points below previous year's level. TRATON continued its strong trend and
was able to further increase its operating result to EUR4.2 billion. Return on sales was 9.1%. The
financial services division achieved an operating result of EUR3.1 billion as expected,
corresponding to a fall of 18% year-on-year.
Let's now take a look at the various factors, which drove developments in the operating result of
the passenger car segment. Volume, price and mix effects had a slightly positive impact of
EUR0.3 billion, EUR1.1 billion are related to volume effects. The slightly negative mix effect is
chiefly due to the decline in vehicle sales at Porsche and Audi in the full year. Price effects were
slightly negative in 2024 with an impact of EUR0.5 billion.The trend of clearly rising overhead started in 2023 and continued in fiscal 2024, which resulted
in a clear burden for our result. Major contributing factors for the rise were higher personnel costs
as consequence of wage increases through collective agreements in 2022 and extending our
activities in, say, the battery business, building up Scout activities in the US, and ramping up the
fully consolidated units in China, led to a clear increase.
So one thing is clear. In order to guarantee Volkswagen's robustness in a demanding market
environment, we have to provide decisive measures to counteract this development. We can only
invest strongly in the future, if we significantly reduce overheads and considerably improve the
quality of our earnings. We have therefore launched extensive initiatives across all brand groups
and brands to improve efficiency and productivity and to establish competitive cost structures.
In this context, we achieved significant progress through the future Volkswagen agreement,
including a new wage agreement for Volkswagen AG, structural measures to reduce
overcapacities at the plants in Germany, and a reduction of about 35,000 in the workforce at the
German locations up to 2030.
The Zukunft Volkswagen agreement is the decisive prerequisite for making Volkswagen AG and
its businesses in Germany sustainably competitive and profitable. However, the agreement we
reach just before Christmas does not mark the end, but just the beginning of this process. Only
by consistently implementing the agreed bundle of measures over the next few years will
Volkswagen AG be able to realize the necessary net cost effects of over EUR4 million in the
medium term.
As expected, our proportional share in the operating result of our joint venture activities in China
fell to EUR1.7 billion in 2024 financial year. In a highly competitive market environment, we found a
healthy compromise between profitability on the one hand and volume on the other hand. As a
result, deliveries in China fell by 10% and the market share declined by 2 percentage points as
anticipated at the beginning of the year.
Expenses for the expansion of our local development activities and upfront expenditure for the
upcoming renewal of the model portfolio had a negative impact on earnings in 2024, but will pay
off in the medium term. Over the next two years, we are focusing on the development and
market launch of new local models that we expect to be absolutely competitive in terms of
design, technology and costs.
Against this backdrop, we expect earnings in China initially to decline to between EUR0.5 billion
and EUR1 billion in fiscal 2025 before stabilizing from the end of 2025 onwards and showing a
clearly positive trend over the next few years.
As announced, our capital expenditure reached a peak in 2024. Expenditure on property, plant
and equipment and R&D in the automotive division increased by about 5% to EUR37.9 billion in
2024. We are keeping our combustion engine vehicles competitive, while investing in the
transformation of our core business towards e-mobility and software. At the same time, we are
investing in the battery business and in strengthening our position in the US through Scout. In the
2025 to 2029 planning round, we expect capital expenditure to total EUR165 billion, EUR15 billion
less than in the prior 2024 to 2028 planning round.
And this brings me to the financial outlook for fiscal 2025. We expect a significant tailwind from
our revamped model portfolio of exciting vehicles and a slightly positive volume trend in the
markets outside of China. We expect the implementation of Zukunft Volkswagen agreement and
continued cost discipline to have a significant positive impact on the costs side. On the otherhand, the expansion of EV volumes, especially in Europe and the ramp-up costs of the new
models and our battery activities will have a negative effect on our earnings in 2025.
On this basis, we expect the Volkswagen Group sales revenue to increase by up to 5%. The
operating return on sales -- operating return is expected to be in a range of between 5.5% and
6.5% with a significantly weaker Q1 in terms of margin and cash flow. This outlook does not
include possible effects from the introduction or adjustment of trade tariffs or possible further
restructuring expenses. On the other hand, the possible relaxation of CO2 regulations in Europe,
has also not been taken to consideration. The net cash flow should be in the range of between
EUR2 billion to EUR5 billion.
Ladies and gentlemen, we have strong brands, great products and we have global scale. In view
of these advantages, we cannot be satisfied with this financial outlook. It reflects the current
challenges in the global economy and an industry that is in the midst of a fundamental
transformation. We need to keep our combustion vehicles technology competitive and while
investing in exciting electric models and software solutions and achieve a regional robust
positioning with a clear growth and investment approach for the US.
To achieve this, it will be crucial to continue to offer our customers highly attractive vehicles, and
at the same time, consistently reduce costs and continually improving our earning power. This will
be precisely our main focus in the coming months and years.
Thank you very much. And with this, I'd like to hand over to `Sebastian Rudolph, Vice President, Global Group Communications.
Questions And Answers
A - `Sebastian Rudolph, Vice President, Global Group Communications `
Thank you very much, Arno, and thank you, Oliver, for these two presentations. Let's get started.
We're happy to take your questions, dear colleagues. You either ask them right here in the room
and please raise your hands if you want to put a question or also ask your questions in the chat
window here on our stream and I'm going to read those out then as well. So maybe you want to
look to me for a while now until we see your hands here. `Victoria Waldersee, Journalist, Reuters is going to start from
Reuters. And please wait. That's Victoria right here. So wait until you get the roving microphone
and then we're ready to start.
Q - `Victoria Waldersee, Journalist, Reuters
Hello. Thank you very much. I have two brief questions. The fear of an economic downturn in the
US with the uncertainties that we see at the moment, for Donald Trump's policies, and this is
actually something that has shown that the US share prices are plummeting this morning and how
concerned are you about the recession, a possible recession in the US and how would you assess
the customer sentiments in the US at the moment?
And the second question. Mr. Blume, you announced a new vision for North America with a set of
measures where you talked about local synergies. Could you say a little more what these
measures would include? And I know that tariff policies, and upcoming tariff policies in a way, are
very hard to project and it's hard to communicate also. I understand that, but can you say
something to reinsure investors that the VW brand has a plan up their sleeve if on -- in April,
those tariffs will come into effect versus Mexico? So we don't see a major hit on your financials.
A - `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officer `Well, perhaps let me start with our vision and then Arno, maybe you will follow up on the
economic situation in the US and what our assessment of the situation is. Now, first off, we are
deeply rooted in the United States in the sense that we've made major investments in our own
activities in our plant in Chattanooga and also in South Carolina. So we're talking about EUR5
billion for each factory there.
And also we have a software partnership now with Rivian, which comes in at another EUR5 billion,
which is a powerful footprint. We are employing tens of thousands of employees in North
America, so great success last year. 15% sales increase, unit sales increase for Volkswagen, 6%
for the overall group than in the year before. So we have a market share of about 4%.
And if you look at that large US market, which is the second largest car market in the world, it
shows you that with our biggest range of brands, there's certainly potential to leverage and this is
exactly what we plan to do. We are investing in the future. We looked exactly at the segments
and the biggest segment clearly is the pickup and large SUV segment, which accounts for about
one-third of the overall volumes, but half of all sales. So it's for that reason that we decided to
invest in that segment and not with the traditional brand of the Volkswagen Group, but by
launching a, well, heritage US brand, Scout, where we've acquired the naming rights.
And that brand in the past was one of the co-founders of the pickup segment. So therefore, we
are going to revitalize it with electric vehicles and range extender. Last September, we've
received excellent feedback, have many advanced reservations for this vehicle also now. So this is
part of our vision for the future. Now, the individual brands are now also going to refine their
product strategy. Take Porsche for example. The US market is the largest single market for that
brand. So we see a lot of potential for them there. So that's our plan going forward.
Talking about tariffs, well, there are a number of scenarios that we've calculated here. And mind
you, this is a little more complex. It's not only about the US and Europe; it's about Canada, it's
about Mexico. Nothing's on the table right now as we speak. We will rely on our strong footprint in
the US and where we have invested and we have plans going forward. I told you about that. But
we also are hopeful that there's going to be a fair compensation between the US and Europe
when it comes to the trade balance and it takes many things to consider. It's not only
commodities, it's digital flows of products, especially from the US to Europe. There's quite
actually something coming onto our continent. So therefore we will be getting into a dialogue
there and make our voices heard. Now Arno, you would like to say a word on the economic
developments?
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Well, yes, as you've said, there is a certain uncertainty in the marketplace. That's true. But we can
only focus on what we can influence, where we have agency. And as Oliver has just said, we have
a global strategy, which we believe is spot on. We have a strong market share in Europe of about
25% that we want to defend. In China, no later than 2026, we want to grow back and attack and
grow our market shares. '25 probably will be another dip in our market share in China, but we
want to grow in the US. As Oliver has just said, there are a number of plants that we have and we
are going to continue that, very single-minded so.
A - `Sebastian Rudolph, Vice President, Global Group Communications `
Okay. We'll stay with the (inaudible) `Frank Johannsen, Journalist, dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur from dpa was next. So wait for the
microphone, please.
Q - `Frank Johannsen, Journalist, dpa Deutsche Presse-AgenturThank you. Good morning, everyone. Question on the US tariffs. Just to follow up, what may be
surprising that the US is going to impose tariffs against Canada. You were just building one of
your battery factories there. Now, with hindsight, wasn't that perhaps not a good idea? Are you
reconsidering that investment? Because those batteries from Canada should have been
delivered to the US. If they apply 25% of tariffs, it wouldn't make sense. Would it? With your
investment in Canada, that is. So that was number one.
Number two. With Porsche, you announced that you're going to build more ICE vehicles. Is that
only true for Porsche or do you have plans for other brands as well? Because the sales numbers
of EVs for all of them is rather weak. And the third question, the carbon emission targets of the
European Union. There has just been changes recently, which are in favor of the car industry.
Does it mean you're on the right track? Can you tick it off? Is this carbon business okay or will we
be back to square one in three years' time with that discussion?
A - `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officer `
Mr. Johannsen, let me start with Canada first. You're right in what you're saying. The battery cell
factory has been sited there and this is going to be a focus for the US market, but also for other
regions when it comes to battery deliveries. Now, we have to see how this all plays out. We do
realize that the US car industry as well is strongly vertically integrated, both in Canada and Mexico.
So I would assume that the discussions will be seen in that context and we'll have to see and face
up to what will happen.
In terms of Porsche, our product strategy has been revised, and that is also because we are
currently looking at the ramp-up schedule for e-mobility across the different regions because our
strategy has always to offer a mix of ICEs, hybrid and BEVs. Now what we do is hedging and what
hedging means in the segments, we are going to invest in all drivetrain options. We planted that
plan in order to be as flexible as we possibly can, depending on the different speed at which the
world regions develop. And we are scrutinizing all the brands in that context because we have
connected platforms, multi-brand platforms that we benefit from. For us, it is, if you will, an
incremental revision of our product strategy and we are very pragmatic about it, depending on
the individual market developments in the regions of the world.
As far as the carbon emission targets are concerned, which is currently in place for 2025, well, I'm
very positive in terms of what the European Union has decided now. We were there two weeks
ago, meeting with President von der Leyen and the EU did a reality check. The ramp-up of e-
mobility was not quite as dynamic as has been expected a couple of years ago when those
targets were defined. So therefore, I welcome this push to apply a softer schedule over three
years, '25, '26 and '27 in one go, as it were.
But we're not going to let up on the carbon emissions side. It's just that the transition period has
been stretched a little to give more flexibility to the carmakers. And we, beyond that, have also
agreed that the following steps up to and including 2030 will be also talked about in the next
couple of months. Why? Because we want to set the right milestones. We want to revise how e-
mobility is developing throughout those years. It's not only about products, mind you, so we're in
a very -- we are in good shape. We are by far a market leader for BEVs in Europe, but it's about
the general conditions of charging infrastructure, energy prices, possible subsidy regimes,
especially for entry level vehicles, market regulation, that sort of thing, so -- and it's different in
every country. So therefore, I very much welcome the initiative taken by the European Union and
also with the new commissioners.
A - `Sebastian Rudolph, Vice President, Global Group Communications `We will now have Handelsblatt, Spiegel and Suddeutsche. So let's start with `Lazar Backovic, Journalist, Handelsblatt,
second row. Over to you, sir. Microphone will be coming.
Q - `Lazar Backovic, Journalist, Handelsblatt
Hello. Good morning. Thank you very much for the presentation. I would like to follow up on the
question of `Frank Johannsen, Journalist, dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur, because I'm still not very clear about it. When we take a look at the
drivetrain mix, you yourself are saying and underlining this in the strategy that you want to stay
flexible. In concrete terms, what does that mean for the mix of drivetrains in the next years?
Maybe you can give us a split; EVs, hybrids and ICEs. And with Porsche, you already have a new
wording for your electric strategy with Volkswagen, the core brand. You still have the target to no
longer sell ICEs in 2033. So will you stay with that in Europe?
A - `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, Porsche, just briefly to say that last year, Porsche had a share of electrified vehicles of 27%,
half of them true EVs, EV only. That's a very positive result and quite a good situation compared
to the competition. And for this year, we expect a clear step further into the future. What is
important, and this is true for all the other brands; despite all this, we want to have as big a
flexibility as possible, far into the 2030s and offer all of the various drivetrains. At the end, the
number of electrified vehicles will depend on market development. Customers decide what they
will buy. We can make our contribution by having attractive cars on the market and also at the --
with the right pricing.
Now with Volkswagen, we have given a clear signal; end of the year, we will offer cars for
EUR25,000. Last year, we presented ID. EVERY1 that will be at around EUR20,000, and on the
volume side, that will bring a major push on the other side and that's our entrepreneurial
obligation. We have to have a broad spread. `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer said it, of course. That's a burden for our
result initially, but it gives us a clear -- clearly higher robustness. So the further targets we would
show further milestones for depending on the development of the global regions.
We are prepared. When customers want to move to EVs, we are prepared to move it up. This is
just as true for Porsche. 80% could be delivered in an electrified fashion till 2030, but we deem it
not to be realist with the current development. And for Volkswagen, we'll do exactly the same
and for 2035, we will see how transition will be done for Europe and it would be my wish that it
should be designed a bit more flexible as you do it for 2025. But we have responsibility for
sustainability. We go with EVs and we believe this is the superior technology for the future.
A - `Sebastian Rudolph, Vice President, Global Group Communications `
Let's stay in the second row. `Alexander Demling, Journalist, Der Spiegel, Spiegel. You get the microphone.
Q - `Alexander Demling, Journalist, Der Spiegel
Good morning, Mr. Blume. Last year, we have heard about the Chinese markets say, you're not
participating in the price fight. You have to wait for it to somewhat settle, and last year, not so
much has happened. What do you believe needs to happen so that this price fight comes to an
end? How much consolidation do you have to see? What are you waiting for?
Second question on the United States. In how far are you in a position in a certain case to move
production from Puebla into the US? Would it be possible to build certain cars in Chattanooga to
circumvent certain tariffs? Would that be an option? And finally, you said that you are looking forcontacts to Trump administration in order to see your position heard. Do you have these
meetings and at what level do they take place?
A - `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officer `
Right. I would start with the last part of your question and then talk about China, and `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer,
as our Head of North America, can tell us something about how we handle Mexico and Canada.
So contacts with the US government, we have maintained those in the past and we would wait for
the following steps. First of all, something concrete has to be put on the table. Then between the
US and Europe, there is the EU commission that is called for, and once we have a new federal
government, and afterwards, we would start the discussions once the parameters are clear and
would express our position.
Now on to China. What we can say is that the Volkswagen Group last year has worked in an
economically feasible fashion as one of the very few companies in China because we are still
strong in the combustion engine and hybrid market. In e-mobility, we only have a very weak
footprint. Two years ago, we have changed our product strategy quite decisively with the
approach to produce far more in -- develop far more in China for Chinese customers and to build
the cars there, and at the end, success will have to happen in China. You have talked about the
pricing competition. It will depend on having the right type of products, attractive products. We're
developing them as we speak with our own China platform for the Volkswagen Group, with our
own China electronic architecture, which we are developing together with our partner Xpeng and
with our CARIAD partner. And then with the first products, we come at the end of 2025 through
Audi, with the cooperation of SAIC, then with a big product drive in 2026.
And the decisive thing -- in particular, when you're talking about the price competition, the
decisive thing is to be in the right price position. For us, there's nothing to be said against
developing at the same cost level and produce at the same cost level as our Chinese
competitors do it. And once we have the right type of product with the brand image and the
quality that Volkswagen Group has, we are confident that we will be able to have success stories
as we have them with ICE cars and hybrids and to bring that into the electric segment. And
maybe Arno, you can talk about it.
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Yes, tariffs. Of course, everyone wants to know how things will be continuing. In the automotive
industry, you can't have a short-term reaction. You can't move a car and localize it overnight or in
a couple of weeks. We're looking at it. We see our American competitors having significant capital
expenditure in Mexico. Part of their business happens there and also -- this is also true for other
competitors. You simply have to wait and see what's happening there.
There's one thing which gives a bit of stability in the long run and I have to preempt that this has
nothing to do with tariffs and the discussion in the US. You know in the Volkswagen Zukunft
agreement, we're reducing capacity in, I'd say, the German plants. We adapt them to the market-
to-market conditions, but we have also decided that we move the Golf to Mexico to make space
for further electric models in Wolfsburg. And the Golf is -- the core of the Golf is a European car,
irrespective of the tariff situation. That would also secure a certain utilization in the mid-run.
A - `Sebastian Rudolph, Vice President, Global Group Communications `
Now on to `Paulina Wurminghausen, Journalist, Sueddeutsche Zeitung. Wait for the microphone. It's in the third row, please.
Q - `Paulina Wurminghausen, Journalist, Sueddeutsche Zeitung`Paulina Wurminghausen, Journalist, Sueddeutsche Zeitung from Sueddeutsche Zeitung. Mr. Antlitz, you just said that you need to
make your ICE vehicles competitive, and at the same time, invest into fascinating EVs. Now, how
difficult is that dual pronged strategy? When will be the year that you're producing the last ICE
vehicle? And then the second question. Customers are not really overly enthusiastic about EVs.
What do you expect of the incoming new government to improve that situation?
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Okay. Maybe I take that first part and Oliver will talk about government relations. What's
important for us. If you look at the competitive landscapes, you see that about three or four years
ago, we started with our new strategy, which is about investing into the last generation of internal
combustion engines, the new Passat, the new Tiguan. We're getting a new T-Roc as well, but at
the same time, we have been very clear about ambitious ramp-up of EV vehicles and we continue
to do that; the Audi 3, the 4, the Audi 7, very successful vehicle. And that, yes, was a double
effort, and that was borne out in our upfront investments and some capital market players were
criticizing us for that. So the EUR180 billion investments, they said, was a tall order, but we now
see that this is justifying itself. We have still compelling vehicles, plug-in hybrid vehicles, the Golf,
the Passat with more than 100 kilometers of driving range. And at the same time, we have the
BEVs in our product range as well, but yes, it is true that it weighs down on our financial KPIs, both
CapEx and write-off, so -- depreciation. Sorry. So therefore, for 2025, the outlook that we are
providing now is rather moderate and only then do we expect a more dynamic growth and a
further reduction of CapEx.
So 2025 and 2026 are important years because we see investments into ICE vehicles will be
going down because those new vehicles will keep going quite literally until the 2030s. And this is
also what our financial cycle is. There's advantage of reducing investments going forward
because in the future it's only going to be 10% of our sales revenue that will be in investments
and that will also allow us to consolidate the cash flow in our product range as well, but yes, it is
true that it weighs down on our financial KPIs, both CapEx and write-off, so -- depreciation. Sorry.
So therefore, for 2025, the outlook that we are providing now is rather moderate and only then
do we expect a more dynamic growth and a further reduction of CapEx.
So 2025 and 2026 are important years because we see investments into ICE vehicles will be
going down because those new vehicles will keep going quite literally until the 2030s. And this is
also what our financial cycle is. There's advantage of reducing investments going forward
because in the future it's only going to be 10% of our sales revenue that will be in investments
and that will also allow us to consolidate the cash flow.
A - `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officer `
Ms. Wurminghausen, you asked a question about the ramp-up of e-mobility in Germany for that
matter, and it hinges, I must say, on a number of factors. Attractive products, obviously. That is
true and the pricing has to be right and that is our job clearly, but then the general framework
conditions like charging infrastructure. We have the Elli network in Germany, which features more
than 800,000 charging outlets. There I would hope that the new incoming German government
to not let up on growing the charging infrastructure.
When it comes to our motorway network, and I drive a lot of electric vehicles, the motorway
network is in good shape, but we need to do more across the country in secondary roads. And
also the price level obviously much higher here in Germany than in other European countries in
terms of electricity prices. And if you look at China, their kilowatt prices are EUR0.02 to EUR0.03.
Now, Germany therefore is clearly in different dimensions by double-digit factors, I should say,need incentives, subsidies for electric vehicles and works really well in other European countries,
like tax models.
My proposal was to perhaps make this very straightforward, very easy with your annual tax return
at the end year event -- at the end of the year, maybe you put an electric car on your documents,
like you use for any work done at your home. That is also deductible, tax deductible in Germany.
That is a good incentive model, or you could offer things like social leasing where we are offering
products as well. France, for instance, is doing that. So what I'm saying is a plethora of different
instruments and we need to talk to the government about that and we will submit our ideas, no
doubt about it.
But also the industrial conditions have to be right. The transformation of existing factories, not
only car factories, but also component factories should be supported to provide some good
incentive for the auto industry to change over to BEVs. Same is true also of battery cell production
in Germany. So what I'm saying is, there are different conditions, general conditions, where the
German government can help us both when it comes to the ramp up of BEVs, but also generally
for the industry at large.
A - `Sebastian Rudolph, Vice President, Global Group Communications `
Now, Oliver, you just talked about conditions and expectations. There's a question from David
Zwick [ph] from -- my colleague from Deutschlandfunk, which is very much in line with what you
just said. So perhaps, if you want to ask this question again, please drop us a line on the chat
window, but I think from what we've just heard from Oliver, has already answered your question.
Okay. Let's continue with Stuttgarter Zeitung, Stuttgarter Nachrichten, Business Insider and then
we do a big jump to Borsen-Zeitung. So we continue with `Klaus Koster, Journalist, Stuttgarter Zeitung. Can you put your hand up,
please? And there's the mic for you.
Q - `Klaus Koster, Journalist, Stuttgarter Zeitung
Thank you very much. Mr. Blume, two questions. On Germany as a business or manufacturing
location and competitiveness, because you said you're boosting competitiveness and with your
efficiency program, you're only at the beginning of that whole process and not at the end. What
do you think would be the biggest challenge to get this all done? So what is the effort that you
are seeing now in order to reduce your workforce even beyond the demographic curve?
Volkswagen is a very competitive and appealing employer. How hard is it going to be? How
expensive is it going to be is it going to be for you to downsize the company and motivate
people to quit?
Now, secondly, as far as the exploratory talks are concerned, German -- and the German
government, do you see that there's a trend to considering more the interest of industry than
before? And is that going to be tailwind for you when it comes to the competitiveness of German
industry?
A - `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officer `
Mr. Koster, industry in Germany and the Volkswagen Group, let me cover that first. We are
currently working to get a handle on all cost, beginning with R&D, material cost for our car
production, including also fixed cost, including labor as well, of course, but also cost of sales are
important. We have a very structured program in place. For more than two years now, we've been
running performance programs to optimize the operations of the individual brands.Now, specifically at Volkswagen, we have implemented one part of this initiative to improve our
economic situation. And we see that within our own company now here, if we look at our
European operations, outside of Germany that is, and compare them with Germany, we are
performing much worse in this country here. So we are very confident, having said that, that we
have achieved a good agreement at the end of last year. Our staffing structures will be adjusted
to the production needs we have. And at the same time, we are going to bring about structural
changes in our factories, adjust capacities and produce in a market compatible way, and there
was really some pent-up demand and we're responding to that now and that is going to help us
to tap cost synergies.
For this year, we also see the impact of the labor cost agreements, as Antlitz has said. We've
signed them at the end of last year. And now it's to move ahead with those downsizing measures
in the next five years. We're talking about more than 35,000 jobs to be cut, but in a socially
compatible way. So yes, we are riding the demographic curve, which helps us in that, but also we
have a number of financial incentives there like partial retirement and also severance packages
that we have in place. This gives us a very clear plan per year, per month and per department or
unit, and we're going to track that. But this is the initial year of two years where this is going to be
really incisive.
And the full structural measures will become effective in 2027 and beyond because we are
currently reducing the plant allocation schemes. We've shifted products to other production sites.
What I'm saying is yes, as Arno has said, it's a lot of work. The agreement is just the first step and
we're now implementing it, but in fact it's true for other brands as well. In Germany, Porsche and
Audi also have similar programs in place, which will give us a much better, much preferred
breakeven situation as it were. The risk situation is much higher than we had in the past decades,
I must say, and therefore we have to get it right when it comes to our cost positions, be more
robust.
When it comes to policy making in favor of industry's concerns, yeah, I think this is exactly the right
approach going forward in Germany and Europe. For many decades, we have been living well off
development work. Our general prosperity on this continent, this is what we have been able to
found or to base our prosperity on, our freedom and democracy that we've enjoyed and our
industry provides a lot of jobs, actually the largest share of jobs in industries. So we have to be
cognizant of that. And therefore I welcome very much what the German government has been
saying now and the incoming government and also what the European Commission has said
when it comes to R&D, when it comes to getting the conditions right for industry at large.
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Oliver, might I add one further thing because you said something about the wording that I used
with the necessary reduction of personnel to improve our cost structure. There's always two
sides to it and you have to distinguish between the two. The one thing is, when will the
employees leave the company? When go -- do they go to their well deserved retirement? How
do people leave the company? But the second thing is, and that's really the challenge, but that's
why I'm saying work is only starting now, we have to set up our business in such a way that with
these 30,000, 35,000 people less, we can still our business -- do our business. So productivity in
the plants, that's something which we need to work through in workshops. We need to build
more cars with less people in indirect areas. My financial area need to work with 25 people less --
percent people less. Tariffs, taxes, all these issues need to be covered. That's the issue that we
need to work on. So both things are true; reduction of staff levels with socially compatible means.
On the other side, we have to make the prerequisites in order to have adequate productivity.A - `Sebastian Rudolph, Vice President, Global Group Communications `
We'll stay in the lower row. Mr. Croke is next.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Andy Croke [ph] from Hamburg. Hello. I would like to address two brands that we haven't talked
about yet. Mr. Blume, for the economic well-being of the Volkswagen Group, North America with
Canada, US and Mexico is of utmost significance, and your Spanish sub-brand, CUPRA, wants to
enter the US market by the end of this decade. Now, with Donald John Trump as the new
president with sometimes strange behavior, this brings me to three individual questions. First, for
CUPRA, will you stay with the market entry at the end of this decade in North America? And
secondly, can you say where the cars will be vertically integrated and built? Will it be Puebla,
Chattanooga? Will it maybe be completely different site?
Background of that question is your colleague Mr. Antlitz quite rightfully said you can't localize
somewhere else overnight and there will have to be localized content for the US. Mr. Antlitz, you
said the real work is only starting now. And in the past, as a consultant with McKinsey, you have
been active with such a big restructuring that you have now. One could imagine that you need
more consultants. You -- will you have more consultants working for you than in previous years or
less?
And a fast question on Lamborghini, Mr. Blume. At the upper end of your range, Lamborghini, at
the end of the decade, wants to have a battery electric vehicle. I take it Made in Italy is very
important for Lamborghini. So the assembly will take in -- place in Sant'Agata, but where will you
do the body, use the body shop? Will it be Bratislava? Will it maybe be a site of Audi's in
Germany? Can you tell us a bit more about it? And with that car, will you have high rigid steels for
the body or will you use carbon materials -- carbon-based materials?
A - `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officer `
Right. Let me start with CUPRA in the US. We see the American market as being very attractive
for the CUPRA brand. In the recent years, we have seen how great the brand image of CUPRA
has developed, the kind of great products we have there, and we have a specific approach to
build tailor-made US products by CUPRA.
Of course, we have to take a look at the pre-requisites as they change in the United States for
each and every strategy. It's important to check it against reality, what we're doing just now as
well. We also have to take a look at how the relationship between ICE and EVs is developing in
the US. So yes, we side by that we want to go into the US, but of course we will take a very close
look at how decisions maybe need to be changed.
So -- and that also means should we go to the US with CUPRA, we need to see which sites we
use for which products. First of all, we're planning for export of products and then step by step,
you can think about this. But as I said, our intention is there. We think it's attractive, but of course,
we can't avert our eyes from what's happening in the US.
And then I'd like to answer the Lamborghini question and you could answer the rest on the
consultancy work. Lamborghini, as we are planning to have an electric vehicle, that's a big
opportunity the Volkswagen Group has that with a joint electric kit that we have -- that we
structurize in various dimensions with various core development responsibilities with Volkswagen,
Audi and Porsche, that we have a possibility to use synergies here. Lamborghini, we plan to go on
the platform. That is where development is dominated by Porsche at the moment. We're doing ittogether with Porsche, with Lamborghini, Bentley, and Audi. It's a very sporty one. We'll come up
to 2,000 horsepowers. It's a very sporty setup with a voltage of 918 volt, which will be a very --
which can be a very specific setup for Lamborghini.
Assembly will, of course, be done in Sant'Agata. As regards the body concept, they're not giving
any statement yet. We're in the concept stage. Concept development has progressed pretty
fine. At a later point of time, we will announce how we will do it, but I can promise it's going to be
a typical Lamborghini, very emotional and a design show. It gives a great impression.
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
So just briefly, Mr. Croke, of course, we said we need to save money, we reduce overheads and
consultancy work belongs to that. On the other side, in the future, we will have some questions
where we simply don't have the expert know-how in our company, although, of course, we have
great stuff and great people here. For example, with Rivian, we actually used consultants and with
other complex questions in the future, that will also be the case. There will always be some
cases, some questions coming up where rightfully we will use consultants, but of course, we'll
see it against the backdrop of overhead costs.
A - `Sebastian Rudolph, Vice President, Global Group Communications `
Right. Let's go to the next side, `Sebastian Schmid, Journalist, Borsen-Zeitung, Borsen-Zeitung. Over to you.
Q - `Sebastian Schmid, Journalist, Borsen-Zeitung `
Yes. Thank you so much. Moving away from the US to China back again, in Q4, you had an
operating result, operating contribution that is in range for the entire year 2025. So Mr. Antlitz,
maybe you can briefly tell us what the counter effects are in China that make it so more such a
challenging year, more challenging even than 2024 and midterm capital expenditure, which is
clearly lower. And I would like to know which shares -- software investment in this and which share
is going to the partnership of Rivian so that you reckon with less capital expenditure in the next
few years. And the further additional question, CARIAD has a negative financial -- more negative
financial result last year than in 2023. So will you think there will be further growing losses in 2025
in that unit? What are the factors that it will be a bit less negative in the future? Thank you.
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Let me start with China. Our guidance is EUR0.5 billion up to EUR1 billion operating results. So
that's a bit weaker still. It has two reasons. Pricing competition in China is still very ambitious. And
at the same time, we want to strike a good compromise between volume on the one side and
price on the other, which is why we will again reduce market share in 2025 in order to be on the
attack in 2026.
2025 will be mainly burdened by investment. We are preparing to be on the attack in 2026. Take
our China main platform that `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officer addressed. We are working in a partnership with
Horizon Robotics, bring in driving assistance, driving functions, infotainment. We'll have LFP
batteries in the car, and thus prepare in 2026, to have a far more competitive platform.
Now, this costs money. It's capital expenditure. Then we have product partnerships, for example,
between Volkswagen and XPENG. Volkswagen will launch two great cars and Audi and SAIC also.
And these -- this investment will actually be an additional one for 2025. And then in '26, I don't
want to be too precise, but from the second or third quarter '26 onwards, we will have everything
in place in order to move forward full throttle and to regain market share in the EV sector. Thoseare in the EV sector. Those are the plans. But that means that 2025 will actually be burdened
again.
And, maybe, as regards the investment issue, CARIAD has been a bit worse in 2024 because a
very important event happened, the ramp-up of the 1.2 software platform for E-Macan and Q6 e-
tron. That was a real tour de force for CARIAD. CARIAD has the task to maintain 1.1 and to ramp
up the 1.2. And with the cooperation with Rivian for the new platform for 2.0, and in China with
Xiaopeng, you can expect that CARIAD over the years will be clearly more positive. You know the
business model. CARIAD's business model means that they invest or finance the investment and
they're paid by the brands through licenses, car-by-car. On the one hand, the number of cars will
be rising that will rest on CARIAD 1.1 and 1.2 platforms. So CARIAD's income will be growing. And
on the other side, software expenditure, because of the joint venture with Rivian, for example,
will go down. Breakeven will come sometime in '26 and '27. That's to expect.
And with mid-term investment, roughly speaking, we can say that about one-third will go to
combustion engine technology, maybe a bit less, maybe 30%. And the rest will mainly be going
towards future investment for e-mobility, for digitalization and software. That's about a rough
estimate. Of course, a lot goes into battery as well. Of the 165 billion, about 10 billion goes to
capital expenditure for PowerCo and for our worldwide rollout, also growth for -- in the United
States for Scout.
A - `Sebastian Rudolph, Vice President, Global Group Communications `
Now, next round will be international guests, starting with Financial Times, then Lesico [ph], and
then The Wall Street Journal. `Patricia Nilsson, Financial Times, Correspondent is right there, Financial Times, please. You have the
floor.
Q - `Patricia Nilsson, Financial Times, Correspondent
Thank you very much. I wanted to ask, you mentioned that operating profit was hit by
restructuring costs. Can you give a bit more detail as to what you mean? Is this mainly voluntary
redundancy packages and other types of labor costs? And secondly, I wanted to ask, Mr. Blume,
you mentioned that you have clear targets or guidelines in terms of how much it can cost you to
reach the goal of reducing 35,000 jobs in Germany by 2030. How much can it cost? How much
are you expecting it to cost? Thank you.
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Yeah, I'll start with the first question. So the one offs, let's call it, restructuring, to make one
example or some examples, it's almost a billion, I think, 880 million for early retirement program
at Volkswagen AG which is basically part of the overall agreement. This is a one-off, we booked
that in 2024. And Audi booked a significant amount of -- also magnitude above EUR1 billion, for
example, for the run out of the production of -- in the Brussels plant. We had 100 million burden
on MANES [ph] ramping down a turbine business. Another restructuring was 250 million burden at
our Finco for ramping down our bank in Russia. So these were some examples of the 2.6 billion
we adjusted.
A - `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officer `
And in terms of targets, Arno mentioned the restructuring costs, and I would like to talk more
about the efficiency we are aiming to increase. And in terms of labor costs, midterm, we have a
target to benefit from EUR1.5 billion a year. This year, we are expecting around EUR1 billion. And at
the end of our planning round, in terms of all measures we are implementing, also the reductionof employees, we have the target to have a benefiting part of EUR4.0 billion a year. And this is
part of an overall performance program we are running at Volkswagen. And this will lead at the
end to EUR15 billion a year. So we have three important figures. EUR1.5 billion labor cost for
everything together with plant reduction, personnel reduction and EUR15 billion for the whole
program.
A - `Sebastian Rudolph, Vice President, Global Group Communications `
We'll continue here. Thibault Medlar [ph].
Q - Unidentified Participant
Yeah, thank you very much. Thibault Medlar from Laseco [ph]. I have two questions. I understand
that the carbon emission targets account for EUR1.5 billion, or you would have paid EUR1.5 billion.
But now with the easing and the stretching to three years of European targets, what would be
your savings be? And I understand your revenues are going to increase by 5%. What about unit
sales? Are unit sales grow as well this year or will they be lower?
A - `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, let's start with the second one first. I need to explain that first. Unit sales are expected to
be flat by and large, we believe. So on the level of the prior year. But we need to differentiate by
the different regions of the world. In Europe, we expect a slight increase. Also a slight increase in
the US. And in China we expect a reduction.
Now, there's one thing that needs to be borne in mind. And you know that the unit sales or
volume sales of our joint ventures in China are not in our balance sheet. They're part of the at-
equity result, not at the volume sales result, but only the financial results. Now, if we have
constant deliveries forecast for the entire world, we would expect still an increase of revenue
because where the revenue is counted on our income statement, it's the Europe and US where
we expect a slight increase and a reduction in China. That reduction in China is only seen, or
mostly seen in the share of the operating result of EUR0.5 billion to EUR1 billion, i.e., in the
financial result as we talked about that. So this is the reason why we are expecting a positive
development.
And one more thing to say is that we're confident that we're seeing good momentum in Europe.
Why? Because last year we had volume sales to the level of the prior year, but we had a robust --
a strong order bank. So the orders that we already had in the business, we used as a stabilizer
and reduced them down to 850,000 in Europe. So this is now back to the pre-COVID levels. But
what it means is in the first two months has allowed us to increase the order intake significantly.
Now, our order intake now is more than 100,000 vehicles already. So, I'm seeing very positive
signals in the first two months of the year.
And the second question was about carbon emissions. Well, yes, that was our target that we had
forecast just around Christmas. We believe -- we have believed that the theoretical burden for
2025, given our EV ramp-up schedule, would have been exactly that. But now we we're seeing
those two factors. So for one thing, it's a more positive order intake. Now, for the ID.7, we have an
order intake on the level of the Passat. So we're confident when it comes to EVs pushing this
whole trend. So a much better momentum, if you will, than we had expected. But we need to get
better of course, no doubt about it, because we had 18% in the fourth quarter in Europe last year.
Now, we have to be more than 20% of an EV share. We're getting there, we believe. And that will
allow us to reduce that burden. But then as Oliver has just said, we have three more years now or
a total of three years to meet the emission targets.Well, we still expect that in '25 we're not going to hit the target, but we can compensate it
throughout '26 and '27. It's not alleviating the pressure at all because at '26 and '27 we need to
over-perform with the ID.2 and the ID.2 family and the ID.1, but it gives us a total of three years,
right? And this is why we welcome the proposal made by the European Commission just because
it gives us more breathing space in 2025 not to pay any fines. So actually reinvest that money into
our business. And then in '26 and '27 we'll be hopefully performing better.
And perhaps to add a few more facts and figures here, we're obviously very happy about the
very positive order intake that we've noticed now at the beginning of this year. Also, thanks to our
new products. For EVs in Europe, we are by far the market leader now. And, `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer
mentioned the ID.7. The ID.7 is the market leader in electric vehicles in Germany now and that is
very positive. When it comes to the first -- for the six best-selling electric vehicles in Germany, all
of them are from the Volkswagen Group. So out of the 10, the first six are the Volkswagen Group,
and that provides us a good tailwind.
A - `Sebastian Rudolph, Vice President, Global Group Communications `
Then we go to The Wall Street Journal. `Stephen Wilmot, Reporter, The Wall Street Journal, you get the microphone. Floor is yours.
Q - `Stephen Wilmot, Reporter, The Wall Street Journal
Thank you. Well, you answered a lot of my questions. Thanks to the question from my colleague
from Laseco [ph]. But maybe you can complete the picture in terms of current orders and where
you expect this up to 5% growth to come from by explaining how things are progressing in the
US, because you said you expect growth in Europe and growth in the US to offset the weaker
market share in China. And, I mean, is this growth coming from volume growth or is it higher
prices? So where's this growth coming from? You've kind of answered that question in Europe,
but maybe you can just complete it in the US.
Secondly, you talked about your CapEx guidance, including plant investments in the US for Scout.
I'm just checking, are there any other plant investments included in your guidance for this year in
the US?
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Yeah. Mr. Wilmot, I'll take this question. Growth in US, we had really good growth momentum last
year already, specifically, brand Volkswagen. I think brand Volkswagen was even 16% or 18%,
something like this, up in US. And in 2025, the brand will bring the all-new Tayron. And so we want
to grow in ID.4. We bring the ID. Buzz. And we want to continue with our current model portfolio.
This is Volkswagen brand.
And then, obviously, Audi as well. They have the renewed model lineup. Q6 e-tron, Audi A6,
Audio A5, which -- brand new cars which will also hit the American showrooms throughout the
year 2025. So -- and Porsche, I don't know, Oliver, whether you want to comment on Porsche?
A - `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. At Porsche, we have a complete new product portfolio with five or six model lines. The
Cayenne is already in the market. The sales last year for the Cayenne was the best year ever.
And now we are entering the US market also with the new Panamera, the new Taycan, the
electric Macan and also the new 911 for the first time in history as a hybrid version. And we are
expecting also a continued growth in the US. The US is the biggest market for Porsche, a huge
fan base with a new product that sounds very promising.A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Yeah. In terms of investment, of course, a major investment is Scout. We are very excited about
this project. Will give us the opportunity to enter these all-American segments. (Inaudible) SUVs,
some of -- basically the most promising segments in the market. And we will continue the ramp-
up there. We have investments in the planning for the Tayron which is invested in Mexico. But we
also start the ramp-up of our battery factory in Ontario and Canada. So these are the major
investments we included in our investment planning for 2025 for the US. Of course, model
improvements in Atlas -- Atlas Cross Sport, but these are smaller amounts.
A - `Sebastian Rudolph, Vice President, Global Group Communications `
With a view to the time, we would go to the last round of questions and start with dpa-AFX,
`Marco Engemann, Reporter, dpa-AFX. So please bring the microphone to him. Comes from the other side. Over to
you, sir.
Q - `Marco Engemann, Reporter, dpa-AFX
Yes, thank you so much. Mr. Antlitz, you have just briefly referred to it that you have planned for 10
billion batteries in midterm financial planning. In your speech it sounded as if you had tweaked
that a bit. Did you reduce capacity somewhat or delayed them, or how do we have to imagine
that?
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Yes, it's clear. I can give you the number. Two or three years ago, in sum, in the 180, we had 15
billion included. But that's, of course, our task. We are adapting the ramp-up of capacities in
PowerCo to the demand. And the way you have to see this is we are staying with the three
factories in Salzgitter. We are looking forward to the ramp-up in 2025. Then we have Valencia and
Ontario in Canada. Such a factory is not a kind of monolithic thing. You invest into blocks per
factory. A block has 18 or 20 gigawatt hours. And what we've done, the SOPs for the three
factories are fixed, but the ramp-up of the individual blocks, for example, in Canada or in
Valencia, we have delayed a bit time-wise, simply because we are planning less electric cars in
the past once we started with PowerCo. So we have more ICE cars now. And thus, investment
automatically is delayed somewhat from this planning round. But, of course, we're keeping the
ramp-up, and we simply adapted to the market need.
A - `Sebastian Rudolph, Vice President, Global Group Communications `
Then, one but last question. `Kate Ferguson, Journalist, Deutsche Welle, Deutsche Welle, over to you.
Q - `Kate Ferguson, Journalist, Deutsche Welle `
Hello and good morning. Thank you. First question goes to Mr. Blume. We know there have been
meetings with Chinese investors as regards the use of German factories. Can you give us a short
update on these meetings and how a potential cooperation could look like? And then, to Mr.
Antlitz, you have mentioned that you want to have, or that you have to have a more robust setup
regionally. Apart from US and China, do you also look at other countries -- special [ph] countries
like India, for example?
A - `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officer `
First of all, I'd like to adjust one thing here. There have not been any talks with Chinese investorsChina and the topic of Europe actually comes on the agenda and we are being asked how
something like that could be done. And as regards the use of factories of the Volkswagen Group,
there is no decision. We are giving information as to how we would do something as a lot
entailed [ph], not just factories. You also need to build up a market. Because we have long
partnerships for decades there, we are available, of course. But to make it very clear, there was a
wrong interpretation once German plants -- we have not looked at them so far.
A - `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer `
Ms. Ferguson, thank you very much for the question. Are strongly focused on the three big
markets. But we're not giving up the others. In South America, we want to continue to play
leading role. South Africa, we have a large factory there. And India, that's a very good buzzword
here. We've been in the Indian market for a long period, since 20 years or something we've been
in India with the plant. We have very successful products there when it comes to market entry, not
so much volume. And in India, you need very specific requirements. You have to be very cost-
competitive. You have a very good cost basis. You have to have local content, you have to have
economies of scale. And the market is now moving towards EVs. We want to continue to work on
the Indian market. We want to be present in the Indian market, but we'll very likely only be able to
do it with a partner and we'll only want to do it with a partner. It has something to do with the fact
that as regards the investment, we focus our approach. At the moment, we're in very good talks.
It's much too early to communicate something. But we don't want to give up the Indian market.
Quite to the contrary.
A - `Sebastian Rudolph, Vice President, Global Group Communications `
FAZ [ph] is the next question. And Oliver, they had asked a question on defense, San Efers [ph]
from Hamburg, but it has been asked by `Kate Ferguson, Journalist, Deutsche Welle. So it's with Mark Schmutz now from
Donaukurier [ph]. First row, please.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you. Now, after the English question, I'm going to ask a Bavarian question. I'm from
Ingolstadt. We have a big site of CARIAD. And you didn't say a lot about CARIAD. What about its
future? So what about jobs at CARIAD? What about the structure? Is that going to be side-lined
between Rivian and Xiaopeng?
A - `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, CARIAD. In the past two years, we've been looking into turning around CARIAD. And you
know that really well. We had some larger problems there in the past years. But the positive news
is, it has worked. Products have started successfully in different markets. We're getting good
feedback for the software. So that was quite a big effort by the new CARIAD management team
to get that done. So this has happened, but at the same time, we also looked at the future
software requirements of the different regions because the ecosystems are different. China and
the Western world is quite different. So we would like to move to a zonal architecture very soon
and that is why we have partnerships with Xiaopeng in China and Rivian in the US.
CARIAD in the future will be playing an important role in the general network of our global
software strategies. And in the past months, we also worked on a software governance scheme.
In other words, we are spelling out who's doing what in what part of the world, where are the
responsibilities and the objectives for each of those operations.And in terms of CARIAD, we now need to work on the existing platforms that we already have
because those are the ones that will be there to stay way into the future and in the 2030; the E3
1.1 and the E3 1.2 software package developed by CARIAD now, and we're just launching it very
soon with new vehicles. So CARIAD will be playing an important role in our cross-divisional
responsibilities. Autonomous driving happening in China. This is going really well with our partner,
Horizon Robotics. The name now is Carizon [ph]. That's a combination of CARIAD and Horizon
Robotics. And Arno has talked about it. We also have a partnership with Bosch which is now on a
solid footing, which allows us to develop a European stack for autonomous driving. CARIAD also
works on leads on infotainment and data management for cloud services in the back end.
So with that in mind, important responsibilities for the future. However, we need to rescale the
operations at CARIAD, depending on the requirements needed for that operation. And also, this
is true for dimensioning of tasks. And this is an ongoing process. We do that for all of our
operations and CARIAD is no exception there. So, again, I'm saying it's an important part of the
software strategy, but the partner strategy is just as important to have the right partners for the
right solutions that we need.
And then I'd like to go back to something that Ms. Poyce [ph] has asked. Earlier we talked about
China. Ms. Poyce asked about defense. Now, first off, I think given the current geopolitical
situation what we are seeing now in Germany and Europe is exactly the right decisions that are
being taken in the sense that we need to invest more in order to be safe again. But we are not in
specific talks about what Volkswagen can do. My take on is that, if there were -- there was the
option of military vehicles going forward, we would have to look at the concepts. We did that in
the past. Volkswagen Group has automotive competence. We are ready to provide consultancy
and advice. But where we are, this is just open-ended and initiatives will be brought forward by
the defense industry more than anything. So, therefore, there's nothing we can report about
things that are ongoing.
A - `Sebastian Rudolph, Vice President, Global Group Communications `
And with that in mind, `Oliver Blume, Chief Executive Officer and `Arno Antlitz, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer, thank you very much for those explanations.
And now to all of you, either here in Volkswagen Autostadt and those of us joining online, thank
you for this very constructive exchange. If you still have questions, please talk to us. The
communications team is always at your disposal. Thank you very much indeed for your attention.
See you. Bye-bye. And this was our annual media conference of Volkswagen Group. Thank you
very much, everyone.