Q4 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Welcome and thank you for standing by. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this
time.
Now, I would like to turn the meeting over to Ms. `Patricia Murphy, Vice President, Investor Relations with IBM. Ma'am, you may begin
`Patricia Murphy, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you. This is `Patricia Murphy, Vice President, Investor Relations and I'd like to welcome you to IBM's fourth quarter 2020
earnings presentation. I'm here with `Arvind Krishna, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, IBM's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer;
and Jim Kavanaugh IBM's Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. We'll post today's
prepared remarks on the IBM Investor website within a couple of hours and a replay will be
available by this time tomorrow.
Some comments made in this presentation may be considered forward-looking under the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve factors that could cause our
actual results to differ materially. Additional information about these factors is included in the
company's SEC filings.
Our presentation also includes non-GAAP measures to provide additional information to
investors. For example, we present revenue and signings growth at constant currency throughout
the presentation. In addition, to provide a view consistent with our go-forward business, we'll
continue to focus on constant currency growth, adjusting for the divested businesses for the
impacted lines of total revenue, cloud and our geographic performance. We have provided
reconciliation charts for these and other non-GAAP measures at the end of the presentation and
in the 8-K submitted to the SEC.
So with that, I'll turn the call over to Arvind.
`Arvind Krishna, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining today and I'm pleased to be speaking with the investment
community again.
Over the next 15 minutes, I'll talk about where we stand in the execution of our strategy as we
begin 2021 and how we are running the company to align with this strategy. I'll provide a
perspective on the current environment and our results. Then, in the spirit of being as transparent
with you as possible, I will speak to our expectations for the next two years. Jim Kavanaugh will
then cover the quarter, give more detail on the separation process for our managed
infrastructure services business. I've also asked `Martin Schroeter, Chief Executive Officer, NewCo to join us to make a few
comments as the recently named CEO of this business. Jim will conclude with additional follow on
our 2021 expectations; and then Jim and I will take your questions. I'd ask you to please bear with
us if we go slightly longer than usual on this call.
When I was appointed CEO in April, I laid out my approach to growing the value of the company
which is straightforward. We will significantly increase our focus on our hybrid cloud and AI
capabilities, the two most important transformational journeys for our clients. In the nine months
since then, we have taken a series of important actions to redefine our future as a hybrid cloud
platform and AI company. This is where we are focusing the bulk of our efforts, time and
investments.
In spite of the many challenges in 2020, we have made good progress. In 2021, we believe we
will see that progress showing up in our results. With that said, we know it's not necessarily going
to be a straight line. The operating environment remains difficult because of what clients are
experiencing at the moment. We can see that in the quarter just passed. Our revenue was slightly
behind typical seasonality, but we finished strong in free cash flow which is important as it is the
fuel for investments.
Our performance reflects the fact that our clients continue to deal with the effects of the
pandemic and broader uncertainty of the macro environment. This put additional pressure on
larger software transactions this quarter and project delays in some services engagements. Our
revenue growth was also impacted by IBM specific headwinds of our product cycle and compare
challenges. Notwithstanding the short-term market dynamics, we believe we have the plans in
place and the focus inside the business to be able to grow in 2021.
That said, in the midst of all this, I'm seeing an ever greater need from clients to accelerate the
digital transformation. And this bodes very well for us now and over the long term. As I've told
you before, the opportunity in hybrid cloud and AI is enormous. In fact, we see the hybrid cloud
opportunity at $1 trillion with less than 25% of workloads having moved to the cloud so far. Our
approach is platform-centric Linux along with Containers and Kubernetes provides the foundation
of our hybrid cloud platform. And Red Hat OpenShift is the core product that captures all this and
more.
Our hybrid cloud approach is also differentiated by a vast software portfolio modernize to cloud-
native, and our GBS expertise, which plays a key role in driving consumption and is currently
helping hundreds of major clients on their own hybrid cloud journeys. With this foundation in
place, we are successfully leveraging Red Hat as a unique platform to address what our global
complex and highly regulated clients need, a hybrid cloud platform that is open, flexible and
secure.
Our hybrid cloud approach allows clients to connect their back office to their front office, to
modernize mission critical workloads, to build cloud-native apps and to securely deploy andmanage data and applications across various clouds. We are confident that we have the right
strategy for our clients and for IBM.
Let me comment on some of the proof points we have seen over the last few months, as we
execute on our hybrid cloud platform and AI strategy. First, to drive leadership and focus as a
hybrid cloud platform company, a key element of the strategy is to win the architectural battle in
cloud. And with our cloud foundation in place, client consumption continues to grow. We now have
2,800 clients using our platform. A number which has grown 40% over the last year. In the fourth
quarter, clients such as Barclays, Walmart, GEICO, Airbus, Ford, ABB are all leveraging our hybrid
cloud platform to accelerate their own digital transformation journeys.
We're also making good headway in our focus on Industry Clouds which are designed to tackle
the specific needs of mission critical and highly regulated industries. Following the successful
launch of our cloud for financial services last year, with more than 75 ISVs and SaaS partners,
including Adobe, Infosys Finacle, Persistent Systems and many others, we launched our cloud for
telecommunications in November. So far more than 35 partners have joined our cloud for
telecommunications. For example, Samsung is working with IBM and Red Hat to develop new user
experiences for business. We are also helping major companies like Verizon, Vodafone Idea,
Bharti Airtel and AT&T to transform their IT and telecom network operations.
Second, to be the trusted partner of clients for data and AI. The opportunity at AI is massive,
while the current enterprise deployment rate is in the single digits. Clients are now at the point
where they are moving from experimenting with AI to deploying it at scale. To see this
opportunity, our AI platform is focused on data, automation and security, and now includes more
than 30,000 clients who have turned to IBM to unlock value from their data. We are helping
clients across industries build intelligent workflows by infusing AI into their core business
processes such as hiring, supply chain and customer service.
When it comes to data and AI, trust is paramount. IBM is unique in that we make a hard
commitment not to monetize or use our clients' data. We also offer the industries strongest
commercially available cryptographic technology, and we give clients the ability to retain control
of their own encryption keys.
In the fourth quarter, clients such as Air Canada -- T-Mobile, State Street and Humana use our
reach data and AI capabilities to drive business outcomes. As we look forward, we are also
investing to develop and address future market opportunities such as quantum computing.
Quantum has the potential to unlock hundreds of billions of dollars of value for our clients by the
end of the decade. To seize this opportunity, we have a roadmap to build a thousand plus qubit
quantum computer by 2023 and we have expanded our freight of quantum computers on which
our clients are working today.
I want to now spend a couple of minutes on a series of significant changes we are making to the
company, most is just the beginning of October. We know that our platform-centric strategy
requires a fundamentally different way of doing business. This is why our operating model has
been quietly but substantially reshaped. These decisive moves are all aimed at creating value
through greater focus on our portfolio, our operating model and the needs of our clients. And as
a take hold, they will help us to deliver sustainable mid single-digit revenue growth post
separation.
To drive greater focus on our portfolio, we announced the separation of our managed
infrastructure services business in October. As I just mentioned, this month we appointed MartinSchroeter as this new company's CEO. Martin has a unique understanding of the business with
global talent base and 4,600 clients. You will hear from him shortly.
Though much remains to be done, we are on track to complete the spin by the end of the year.
We are working closely with clients to ensure a smooth transition, while we are also renewing
business and signing new deals. We have a comprehensive project management office to
establish the new entity and to optimize the business. I can tell you, there is a great deal of
excitement among our employees, about the opportunities ahead for this new company.
To strengthen our hybrid cloud and AI portfolio, we have announced 10 acquisitions since I
became CEO and seven acquisitions just since October. This includes five in Global Business
Services, which adds skills to help our clients with their journeys to cloud; Red Hat's first
acquisition as part of IBM that adds cloud-native security capabilities for OpenShift. Our
investments in organic and inorganic growth and in our people will continue to be sharply focused
on both hybrid cloud and AI.
To accelerate consumption of our hybrid cloud platform, we are also rapidly expanding our
ecosystem by adding hundreds of new partnerships with global system integrators, independent
software vendors and major third-party software partners and also elevating the role of partners.
We are investing $1 billion in our ecosystem, so that our partners can play a much bigger role in
fulfilling the many needs of our clients.
As an example, we recently teamed up with sales force to deliver a new strategic contact tracing
platform for the UK National Health Services to help them in their fight against COVID-19.
Salesforce and IBM have also joined forces to address key challenges such as vaccine
management using IBM Sterling supply chain solution and our blockchain-based Digital Health
Pass together with Salesforce's vaccine management and CRM capabilities.
To simplify and transform the way we engage clients, earlier this month, we announced a new
go-to market model. The first aspect is that we have simplified our sales model by adopting a
single consistent segmentation, which will make it easier for clients to work with us and unlock a
great deal of productivity.
In addition, we are providing clients with a more technical and experiential approach with
investment in pre-sales garages that allow us to co-create with our clients earlier in the sales
process. And we are ensuring our sales organization is fully incentivized towards our strategic
growth areas. Finally, we are investing in and elevating the role of our ecosystem partners to
deliver more value to clients.
Let me say a few words about the changes we are bringing to our culture. Since I became CEO,
I've talked at great length about the importance of culture and the need to instill a growth and
entrepreneurial mindset. As part of that, we are encouraging more business risk taking and
ensuring a higher tolerance for failure across the business. This should allow us to more quickly
respond to clients, sees more opportunities and drive better business outcomes.
I'm only scratching the surface of all the actions we have taken to sharpen our focus. As a result,
we are running the company differently as we begin to 2021. I'm convinced that all these changes
will allow us to deepen our client footprint and open up new avenues for growth.
Now, let me speak to our expectations for the next two years. All of the actions I have taken are
designed to drive growth and we expect to deliver sustainable mid single-digit revenue growth
post separation with strong free cash flow performance.How do we achieve this? First, through the continued strong growth of Red Hat which has grown
18% on a normalized basis in 2020 and will be an even larger contributor to revenue growth post
separation. Second, with improvement in the Global Business Services trajectory, we expect GBS
to return to its pre-pandemic growth rate by the middle of the year. Third, by leveraging our
expanded ecosystem to further contribute to both GBS and software, and we will finally start to
see the benefit from the investments we making both organic and inorganic. These will all
contribute to an improving software trajectory as well.
In the first half of the year, we expect our results to continue to reflect some of our current
challenges as well as our product cycle dynamics. And of course, all year, we will be working on
the separation of managed infrastructure services, but these are not long-term trends in the
business and these headwinds will dissipate.
In 2021, the significant changes we have made to focus on hybrid cloud and AI will also begin to
take hold. The company will look different at the end of the year, particularly with the execution of
the spin-out, but also with the operational changes to sharpen our focus. At a high level, in 2021,
we expect to grow revenues at current spot rates with better performance in the second half
than the first half. This is the first step towards achieving mid-single digit revenue growth post
separation. And we expect to generate between $11 billion to $12 billion of adjusted free cash
flow. These are the measures we are focused on. This is where we stand today and how we will
operate to achieve our growth goals.
Jim will cover all this in more detail. Over to you, Jim.
`James Kavanaugh, Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Finance and Operations `
Thanks, Arvind. I'll go through our performance and then wrap up with the perspective and how
the actions we've taken in 2020 position us to deliver on these financial objectives.
In the fourth quarter, we delivered $20.4 billion of revenue. We expanded our gross profit margin
with a significant charge for structural actions that improve our go-forward position. We reported
operating earnings per share of $2.07. We generated free cash flow of $10.8 billion for the year
and we have strong liquidity with a cash position of over $14 billion.
The fourth quarter is our seasonally largest transactional quarter. And I'll remind you that a year
ago, we had a very strong software performance and our first full quarter of z15 availability. We
knew that given our product cycle dynamics and the pressure from the current environment that
the fourth quarter of 2020 would be our most challenging in terms of year-to-year revenue
performance. 90 days ago, we expected revenue and operating earnings per share to be in line
with historical third to fourth quarter seasonality. In 2020, our fourth quarter revenue came in
slightly below our typical seasonality, while EPS was at the higher end of the historical range
before the charge for structural actions. And we had a good finish to the year in free cash flow.
The challenging environment we've seen since March continued, with the shift in client buying
behaviors and priorities. Given the level of macroeconomic uncertainty, more clients tended to
move towards shorter duration engagements impacting our software revenue, but we did have a
good IBM Z performance relative to where we're at in our product cycle.
We also continued to see good demand and offerings that support our clients' digital
transformations, and we're driving strong adoption of our hybrid cloud platform. Arvind
mentioned, we now have 2,800 clients using our hybrid cloud platform. For perspective, that's
more than a 1,000 new enterprise clients since we acquired Red Hat.Red Hat continued its strong performance with normalized revenue growth of 17%. That's slightly
higher than the third quarter rate driven by subscription growth. Strong subscription bookings
contributed to over 20% backlog growth, and the Red Hat backlog is over $5 billion for the first
time. Global Business Services continues to drive adoption of OpenShift and IBM Cloud Paks. And
over the course of 2020, we accelerated the number of GBS engagements using Red Hat
technology with 260 engagements for the year.
We've discussed the economics of a platform model with the software and services revenue
multiple anywhere from 3x to 8x the platform revenue. Our full stack cloud capabilities from
infrastructure up through our cloud services generated over $25 billion of cloud revenue in 2020,
which is up 20% over the prior year.
IBM is a high value business generating ample profit and free cash flow to invest for future
growth and support our dividend policy. We again expanded our operating gross profit margin up
70 basis points in the fourth quarter and 130 basis points for the year with expansion across
software, services and systems. This operating leverage at the gross margin level enables higher
investment in innovation, in skills and in ecosystem.
Our fourth quarter pre-tax profit also reflects a charge of over $2 billion for structural actions to
simplify and optimize our operating model, and reinvest the savings to accelerate growth. This
charge is $260 million or about $0.25 of EPS less than what we discussed back in October, driven
by a few countries, primarily in Europe with government restrictions on certain employment
actions in the current environment. This charge did not have much impact on our fourth quarter
cash flow and we generated over $6 billion of free cash flow in the quarter and $10.8 billion for
the year.
Our free cash flow performance in 2020 was driven by working capital improvements and
contribution from Red Hat, net of related interest. This was offset by increases in net capital
expenditures to scale our cloud infrastructure and workforce rebalancing payments from previous
actions. We continue to have high free cash flow realization, which was well above 100% as
expected. We ended the year with a cash balance of $14.3 billion, which is up over $5 billion while
our debt was down $1.4 billion with $4.5 billion of debt maturities in the fourth quarter.
Now, let me turn to the segments, starting with Cloud & Cognitive Software. Revenue was down
7% in the quarter and gross margin was up 20 basis points. This year has proven to be a
challenging transactional environment, especially in the fourth quarter, which is our largest
transactional base.
As I said, we had particularly strong software performance a year ago when revenue was up 10%.
The fourth quarter of 2019 was the peak of our Enterprise License Agreement or ELA cycle, which
renew about every three years on average. With the uncertainty our clients are facing in the
current environment, we're seeing many of them opt for shorter duration ELAs. This dynamic in
combination with the large seasonal volume of ELAs in the fourth quarter pressured the fourth
quarter software revenue performance. At the same time, our renewal rates for subscription and
support improved this quarter. In fact, it was the strongest year-to-year increase in some time.
This is evidence of our clients' extending their commitment to our software solutions. In this
environment, our hybrid cloud and AI solutions like Red Hat and Cloud Paks are resonating with
clients.
In cloud and data platforms, revenue was up 6%. Red Hat delivered double-digit growth in both
infrastructure and app development and emerging technologies. We continue to gain share inboth product areas, instantiating the importance of our hybrid cloud platform and the Linux
Foundation to our clients.
Earlier this month, Red Hat announced plans to acquire StackRox, a leader and innovator in
Container and Kubernetes native security. This further enhances Red Hat OpenShift, the
industry's leading enterprise hybrid cloud platform. Within cloud and data platforms, we're also
building out our integration offerings bringing AI-powered automation across the portfolio
through key partnerships and new innovation.
During the quarter, we acquired Instana, an application performance monitoring and observability
company. We also expanded our partnership with ServiceNow to develop a joint solution around
Watson AIOps, an IBM solution which helps enterprises to self detect, diagnose and respond to
IT anomalies in real time. And we continue to enhance the Cloud Pak for automation which grew
at a strong double-digit rate this quarter.
Our Cognitive Applications revenue was down less than 2%. We had growth in security fueled by
our modernized Cloud Pak for security and services. This was offset by a weaker performance in
solutions concentrated in industries more impacted by the current environment, like TRIRIGA
which is focused on commercial real estate.
As expected, our software performance was most impacted by transaction processing platforms.
Clients' prioritization of OpEx over CapEx was amplified this quarter, with our strong seasonal mix
towards transactional revenue and the ELA dynamics I just described.
In Cloud & Cognitive Software, we remained focused on our hybrid cloud and AI strategy, and
we'll continue to invest in our portfolio as we head into 2021. In Global Business Services, revenue
declined 5%, which was about a point sequential improvement from the third quarter, and we had
gross margin expansion of 260 basis points.
Our book-to-bill in the quarter was strong, contributing to backlog growth for GBS. While there
remains some market uncertainty, clients are looking to accelerate their digital reinventions by
leveraging business transformation services built on hybrid cloud. Our offerings are aligned to this
high value opportunity with a clear focus on reimagining workflows using AI and modernizing the
underlying application infrastructures through hybrid cloud. We see this in our GBS results.
First, our GBS cloud revenue grew at a double-digit rate for the quarter and the year, and is now
almost $6 billion annually. Second, our global process services revenue returned to growth, as we
deliver efficiency and flexibility to our clients processes, by infusing innovative technology and
redesigning workflows. And third, our consulting signings grew 8%, driven by advisory work for
application modernization and enabled by our unique and experiential garage methodology.
In application management, our performance reflects a continued shift from traditional on-prem
services to building and managing cloud applications. Our incumbency in application management
creates the opportunity and trust to be the partner of choice for their digital journey. This GBS
incumbency plays an important role in driving adoption of Red Hat's hybrid cloud platform.
As I mentioned earlier, our GBS Red Hat engagements accelerated through the year. We had 75
engagements in the fourth quarter with clients including BMW, Humana, Samsung Electronics,
IKEA and Costco. And similar to last quarter, approximately one-third of our quarterly Cloud Pak
revenue resulted from GBS engagements.
To continue this momentum, we are investing in ecosystems, resources, offerings and skills.
Arvind mentioned we have announced five GBS acquisitions in the last few months. Nordcloudand Taos provide cloud-native development, multi-cloud migration and platform engineering
solutions that advance our clients' cloud journeys. And Seven Summits, a leading Salesforce
partner, TruQua, a leading SAP partner, and Expertus, a leading digital payments solutions
provider are collectively at the center of our clients' digital transformations.
Finally, the investments we have made in our delivery capabilities such as our innovative dynamic
delivery model have resulted in improved delivery quality which are reflected in our net promoter
scores and our gross margin expansion.
Turning to systems, revenue was down 19%, driven by product cycle dynamics, while our gross
margin expanded 380 basis points. We saw the product cycle dynamics play out in IBM Z, power
and storage. Power revenue was down at a level consistent with last quarter, and storage
revenue was also down driven by high-end storage tied to the IBM Z cycle.
IBM Z revenue was down 24% as we've wrapped on a strong growth in the fourth quarter last
year, when we were up 63%. 90 days ago, I mentioned that clients and sectors like banking and
financial markets made purchases early in the cycle to manage through robust market volatility,
while those in select other industries focused on cash preservation elongating z15 adoption.
We've made up ground in the quarter and improved adoption in some of the lagging industries.
IBM Z delivered growth for the year, despite a second half wrap on the product cycle and within a
challenging environment. This reflects the importance of this high value, secure and scalable
platform with cloud-native development capabilities. Based on this performance, we expect z15
to be fairly consistent with prior cycles.
And looking back over a longer period of time, our installed base of MIPS is over 3.5 times the
level of a decade ago, with 60% of our installed base now in new workload areas like Linux. The
systems portfolio continues to deliver critical and lasting value to our enterprise client base, in
support of our hybrid cloud strategy.
Turning to GTS, while revenue was down 8%, we expanded gross margin by 70 basis points. We
had strong contract renewals and added a number of new clients. As Arvind mentioned at the
beginning of October, we announced the spin off of our managed infrastructure services
business into a separate public company, which we're referring to as NewCo for now. We are
making good progress on that work and remain on track to complete by the end of the year.
As we discussed in October, this process is complex and includes working with clients to ensure a
smooth transition to Newco as the world's leading infrastructure services provider, optimizing the
business model to improve its financial profile and executing upon the necessary financial, legal
and regulatory milestones to enable the transaction.
I'll give you some additional color on each of these three areas. First, from a client perspective,
we are deeply engaged with our clients that make up the $62 billion of backlog and they are
strongly supportive. We are seeing client confidence in NewCo's long-term value proposition to
manage and modernize mission critical infrastructures. This quarter we had wins at clients such as
Dutch Ministry of Defense, Fung Group and Bankinter.
In the fourth quarter, we signed 11 new logo deals, which is more than double the prior year and
one of the highest in the last couple of years. Our renewal rates of existing contracts this quarter
were also at the higher end of our historical performance. However, while we had a strong
pipeline as we entered the quarter with the announcement as expected some negotiations were
extended, resulting in some deals moving out of the quarter.Secondly, we are optimizing the NewCo business to have a leaner and more efficient operating
model. We continue to take a disciplined approach to improving our margins and overall financial
profile. As part of this, a considerable portion of the $2 billion charge for structural actions was for
GTS. We also have taken steps to restructure existing contracts and further reduce activity and
lower value offerings. These actions impacted our revenue performance this quarter, but
contributed to the gross margin expansion of 70 basis points. All of this positions NewCo for an
improved margin, profit and cash generation profile.
Lastly, NewCo is an unparalleled operational footprint. It has approximately 90,000 employees
and operates in roughly 115 countries. And as you know, managed infrastructure services is an
integrated business, not only within IBM, but within GTS. We are executing on our detailed plan to
achieve the milestones to create a stand-alone company. Today we are working with works
councils on employment terms, establishing NewCo's legal entities across the world, drafting the
agreements which outline the ongoing relationship between IBM and NewCo, and developing
audited financials. We expect the Form-10 to be available in the fall, at which time we will conduct
investor outreach. We will continue to update our progress as we move through the year.
This is a good place to pause, and turn it over to `Martin Schroeter, Chief Executive Officer, NewCo, NewCo's new CEO.
`Martin Schroeter, Chief Executive Officer, NewCo `
Thank you, Jim. I'm delighted and honored to be briefly speaking with you today on IBM's
earnings call as the CEO of NewCo. And yes, we are working on a name. When Arvind and I
began talking about this role, he let me speak with all the teams who are working on it. And as I
did my due diligence, it became very clear to me that I absolutely wanted to be a part of this.
With the outstanding talent in NewCo, the nature of NewCo's work for the leading companies in
every industry, and the freedom of action or the mandate that NewCo will have, I could not be
more excited about the future of this business.
Of course, as Jim noted, we have a lot of work to do prior to NewCo being a separate publicly
traded company. And as we put all of that together, I will tell you more of the story about what
NewCo will look like. In the meantime, we do know what we have to get right in order to realize
the tremendous potential we see.
First, we know that we must continue to serve our clients. These industry leaders, NewCo's
clients trust us to deliver some of their most important workloads in challenging environments
and NewCo will continue to do that. It's what our clients expect and deserve. It's always been
NewCo's true north and will continue to be. And over time, our clients will see our strong
investments bring new capabilities into their environments to help their ongoing journey into a
more digitized world.
Second, we must continue to invest and develop our teams. The teams our clients see and need
every day. To our clients, our people are the face of NewCo, and they are the people who know
how to make these complex systems work. So we'll build the right inclusive culture around client
service, innovation and talent, so our clients continue to see how our teams shine brighter than
any other.
Third, and in support of the other elements of our business, we must establish the financial
model for NewCo that ensures our long-term success. IBM has already provided at a high level
some of the characteristics of NewCo's financial profile when it becomes independent. And
we're working on the specifics now in order to give you a complete and clear view of NewCo's
profile. But we know that NewCo's long-term success requires the right starting point and we'llAnd of course we must build a strong relationship with our owners and the broader stakeholder
community. To that point, I look forward to discussing the opportunities we see and how we
intend to capture them in due course. As I said, I was not going to miss the opportunity to be a
part of this with a sharper focus and broad freedom of action, we have a tremendous opportunity
to direct client value and translate that into a compelling investment thesis.
Now, I will turn it back to Jim.
`James Kavanaugh, Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Finance and Operations `
Thanks, Martin. Now, before the Q&A, I want to bring it back up to the IBM level with a summary
of the actions we are taking and the resulting expectations for 2021. These actions span our
portfolio, our operating model and our capital structure. After building our foundation in hybrid
cloud and accelerating Red Hat platform adoption, we are not separating managed infrastructure
services to better align to our platform strategy and improve the financial profile of both
businesses. At the same time, we are increasing investments, organic and inorganic, in
innovation, expertise and ecosystems. We're investing in platform capabilities, including security
and industry specific clouds. We're investing in data and AI and in technologies like quantum to
create future market opportunities.
As we bring these innovations to market, we're adding GBS skills and expertise. We're making
changes to our go-to market to engage our clients in a more technical and experiential way, and
we're expanding our ecosystem to drive platform adoption and broaden our reach. And in the
fourth quarter, we executed structural actions to simplify and streamline our business. These
actions will improve the EBITDA profile of NewCo, address stranded cost from the separation
and generate savings that will be reinvested to extend our position in hybrid cloud and AI and
accelerate our growth.
We have also taken actions to enhance our balance sheet and liquidity, resulting in a stronger
financial position. We have focused our captive financing business on IBM's hybrid cloud and AI
offerings. We've exited OEM commercial financing and have entered into an agreement to sell
our IBM commercial financing receivables. As a result, our financing receivables have declined
from $32 billion to $18 billion over the last two years, reducing our external debt needs.
Looking at our retirement-related plans, as you know, we have shifted our asset base to a lower
risk, lower return profile. At the end of the year, our plans remain well funded. Our overall returns
in 2020 were well ahead of expected returns and the funded status of our worldwide qualified
plans was consistent with last year.
Bringing it all together, we feel good about the path we're on moving into 2021. And as Arvind
said, we expect an improving financial profile throughout the year. For the full year, we expect to
grow revenue at current spot rates. In the first half, we expect our results to continue to be
impacted by the shift to shorter duration software transactions as clients deal with uncertainty,
and by our IBM Z product cycle dynamics. At the same time, we expect GBS to return to pre-
pandemic revenue growth rates by mid-year.
As I mentioned, we weren't able to execute the structural actions in all countries in the fourth
quarter. We anticipate the restrictions will be lifted over the next several months and are planning
to execute the remaining structural actions in the first half of 2021, which will result in $260 million
of pre-tax charges.
Looking at our cash flows, we expect $11 billion to $12 billion of adjusted free cash flow in 2021.
This reflects a year-to-year cash tax headwind of about $1 billion. But to be clear, this adjustedfree cash flow does not include the cash impact of the structural actions or the transaction costs
associated with the spin-off of our managed infrastructure services business. For perspective, at
this point, we expect to pay about $4 billion for these items over the next 18 months with about
$3 billion in 2021.
As we look to 2022, we expect to build on this with adjusted free cash flow in the range of $12
billion to $13 billion. I also want to comment on our balance sheet as we enter 2021. We're in a
strong liquidity position with over $14 billion of cash on hand. Our plan is to continue to
deleverage and we expect debt reduction throughout the year aligned with our scheduled
maturities. So we'll have further progress in reducing debt since our peak debt balance when we
financed the Red Hat acquisition in mid-2019. This together with the actions to focus our financing
business give us confidence in operating at the single A credit rating, while we continue to
delever. In sum, we expect to continue our progress as a leading hybrid cloud and AI company in
2021 with an improving financial profile.
So with that, let's go to Q&A. I'll turn it back over to Patricia.
`Patricia Murphy, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you. Before we begin the Q&A with Arvind and Jim, I'd like to mention a couple of items.
First, we've included supplemental information for the quarter and the year at the end of the
presentation. And finally, as always, I'd ask you to refrain from multi-part questions. Operator, let's
please open it up for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. At this time, we'll begin the question-and-answer session of the conference.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from `Wamsi Mohan, Analyst, Bank of America from Bank of America. Your
line is open.
Q - `Wamsi Mohan, Analyst, Bank of America `
Yes, thank you. Arvind, I was hoping you might be able to double-click a bit on your comments on
this -- on the software turnaround. Realizing you had a tough compare in transaction processing,
you still had cognitive apps decline. What specifically is being done to turn that business around
to growth as we get into 2022, and what are the assets that will drive the growth there?
And if I could, Jim, could you just bridge the $12 billion to $13 billion in free cash flow in '22 versus
the $10.8 billion. It seems if you hit the mid single-digit growth rate there that's an incremental
maybe $3 billion in revenues versus the $1 billion to $2 billion in incremental cash flow, which
seems like very high cash flow margins. So if you could clarify that bridge? Thank you so much.
A - `Arvind Krishna, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Hi, Wamsi. Thanks for the question. Look, we expect to see improving software performance
through the year, both in '21 and headed into '22. As Jim said in the prepared remarks, a lot of
the shortfall in software came from the TPP segment, and in that segment, as you know, we tend
to have very large deals that tend to come in the fourth quarter. So it was somewhat unique in
2020 and that is not something we expect to see at the same scale going forward. So the
headwinds in some sense will reduce because of the reduction in that aspect.Then on the positive side, we expect to see continued Red Hat growth, we expect to see
continued growth from our Cloud Paks, we expect to see continued growth as the Salesforce
changes we have made, drive a much greater focus across IBM on this part of the portfolio both
in cloud and data platform and on the AI applications.
We also expect to see, as Jim mentioned, that as the security and IoT assets within the
applications become larger and larger with the growth there, they will more than compensate for
some of the other pieces that may not be so big because just enough compounding is going to
get us there. And lastly, remember, other than all the organic actions, we are also doing inorganic
actions. You saw us announce both Instana and StackRox in the last couple of months, and these
and other future acquisitions will also drive growth because they help the entire portfolio, not just
acquired pieces.
Jim?
A - `James Kavanaugh, Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Finance and Operations `
Okay. Thanks. Arvind. And thanks, Wamsi, for the question. Very important as many of our
investors have been asking us about the free cash flow generation profile of this company, why,
it's because it's going to be the engine that fuel the investments for that growth that we
committed here in 2021.
But let me take a step back, because I think it's important to understand, coming off of a strong
finish on free cash flow in 2020 delivering $10.8 billion or 143% free cash flow realization, first,
how does that bridge go to 2021 at $11 billion to $12 billion of adjusted free cash flow and then I
think you'll see how we then continue to accelerate that to $12 billion to $13 billion overall.
So as we said in the prepared remarks, first, revenue growth, which is going to be essential here.
Second, and I think you've seen this over the last couple of years, we have driven the productivity
and operating leverage out of this business with our gross margin expansions, I think now for
about eight to 10 quarters in a row. So not only are we going to now turn around to revenue
growth, we're going to get operating leverage. And that's going to deliver a significant amount of
operating profit contribution to free cash flow, coupled with Red Hat being accretive, net of
interest expense already as we achieved our accretion in third quarter.
Now what's happening from 2020 to 2021? We're going to get substantial operating profit, but
we've got a big cash tax headwind in 2021. So while you see a nice growth from $10.8 billion to $11
billion to $12 billion, we're already overcompensating for $1 billion roughly of cash tax headwind.
Now when you get to 2022, we're going to get that same level of operating profit contribution
that has good leverage, but we have a much more de minimis cash tax headwind in 2022, which
makes us very confident in our ability to give guidance at those levels for the next two years.
A - `Patricia Murphy, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you, Wamsi. Can we go to the next question please?
Operator
Our next question comes from `Amit Daryanani, Analyst, Evercore ISI from Evercore ISI. Your line is open.
Q - `Amit Daryanani, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Thanks a lot for taking my question, and nice to hear your voice Martin. My question really is on
the GTS side and in the spin at NewCo. The revenue trajectory on GTS, the drop was sort ofnotable I think went down to 8% decline versus 4%, 5% trend line for last few quarters. Love to
understand from Arvind or Martin, what are you hearing from your customers? I mean do you see
this as a reflection that they are perhaps pausing their decision until the spin is done or perhaps in
picking up calls from your competition as this is going on? I'd just like to understand what's driving
that dynamic there? And then, Jim, if you could remind me when does the Form-10 get publicly
disseminated, that'll be great?
A - `Arvind Krishna, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Hi, Amit. So in terms of the client feedback, we had talked about that we are going to do a
lot of high dose treatment of all these clients. These are really important clients for us. As both
Jim and Martin said, they are our most important clients in very important industries for the overall
economy. As we have talked to all of the clients, we have by and large gotten very positive
feedback. Over 98% of them are quite satisfied with our description of what will happen both in
terms of their contracts, the service they will get from us and the assured guaranty of access to
technical resources both from the new company and from IBM over time.
As that plays through, we see that, as Jim mentioned, we touched on it very briefly. We do
measure how our clients think of us. We call it, net promoter score measurements, and we're
seeing that those have gone up not down. So we feel comfortable that the clients will go through
it.
Now all that said, maybe a few clients are going to pause on certain project elements given their
own business. And so in that -- in the GTS business, clients are allowed to dial volumes up a little
bit or down a little bit based on their own performance, that is built into these contracts. Given
the -- what's happening in the overall economy, you see some of that play through in both
directions. And that is the large cause of that. The other side of it, which is the new logos gives us
confidence that the performance should be on an improving trajectory going into 2021.
So with that, let me give it to Jim both to sort of add a little bit more color on the financials there
and to just repeat what he said about the Form-10.
A - `James Kavanaugh, Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Finance and Operations `
Yes. Thanks, Arvind, and thanks, Amit, for the question. Just to put it in perspective, GTS $6.6
billion here in the quarter, to your point down what 5.5%, at actual down 7.5% give or take it at
constant currency. It was, though, up 2% quarter-to-quarter. So we saw a nice seasonality, and by
the way, pretty consistent with what our normal 3Q to 4Q would be in GTS.
Now with that said, in addition to what Arvind had talked about, which is what we've been dealing
with for the last four quarters or so, given the external economic environment with lower client
base business volume, we actually took -- as I said in my prepared remarks, we took proactive
actions to restructure some of our contracts to optimize our managed infrastructure services
business to get ready for the spin, which is what your second question is.
As we talked about on October 8, we are going to create value through focus in both IBM and in
NewCo. And in NewCo, the focus is on getting the fundamentals of this business in terms of
value that's margin profit in cash. And with these actions, we will improve on the financial profile
as we prepare for the spin-off, leading to again, an improved EBITDA profile approaching double-
digits, post-spin, a solid balance sheet targeting investment-grade rating and a strong free cash
flow yield and dividend yield that should be attractive to a financial value-based investor overall.Now with regards to your second question on the Form-10, I think I addressed that in the
prepared remarks. A lot of work being done. The complexity of this as we learn each and every
day. Arvind talked about the client transition and we're very pleased with where that's going with
our new logos signings and -- and very strong renewal rates. But if you think about the legal,
regulatory, financial, the carve-out work, right now, I think we're well on track to achieve what we
said on October 8, which is the end of the year and you should see the Form-10 sometime in the
fall period.
A - `Patricia Murphy, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Amit. Let's go to the next question please, Ivy.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Toni Sacconaghi, Analyst, Bernstein from Bernstein. Your line is open.
Q - `Toni Sacconaghi, Analyst, Bernstein `
Yes, thank you. If I just kind of stand back from the results this quarter, typically, your revenues are
up $3.4 billion from Q3 to Q4, that's the average of your last three years and there is very little
movement off of that average. This year it was $2.8 billion, so at least in my eyes it looked
significantly worse and I understand there are some issues around transaction processing. I
understand year-over-year comps, but this is a sequential change, which -- which seems to be
notably below trend. And I hear your assurances around the current spending environment. I
guess the question is and the elephant in the room is how do you know that there isn't
something more sinister afoot here? That there is an accelerated migration to the cloud that you
are not -- IBM is not participating in or you are particularly some of your software offerings in
Cloud and Cognitive are not as competitive as you might think and that's ultimately what's being
reflected here.
And I guess to that end as well, maybe Arvind you can directly address why the confidence in mid
single-digit growth in 2022. It sounds like at constant currency, IBM is going to be flattish or maybe
slightly down in 2021. So, what drives the 500 basis point improvement, which on a huge
company like IBM is really, really notable. How much of that do you expect to be inorganic? Thank
you.
A - `James Kavanaugh, Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Finance and Operations `
Okay. Toni, thank you very much. Arvind, I'll address the front-end piece and then you could talk
about the -- the second part of Toni's question overall. Toni, you are correct with regards to the
last two years to three years when you look at the sequential normal seasonality of our business
top line, it's in the neighborhood of $3.3 billion, $3.4 billion, but I think you know quite well and
many of our investors know quite well that sequential trajectory has been distorted by a couple
things; one, the Red Hat deferred revenue and acquisition and two, a major mainframe product
cycle, as you know, which is why 90 days ago, I think when you asked the question to me, I
answered it on a five-year CAGR and I was very specific and that average is about $3 billion.
Now with that said, we delivered to your point $2.8 billion. And I think we've been open and
transparent that we fell short against that expectation and we fell short specifically in software. If
you look at the balance of our portfolio, which is the remaining 65% of the revenue profile of the
business, we were pretty much well within and some slightly above given our strong mainframe
finish to the year-end. And that software shortfall as we talked about was the culmination of the
confluence of the wrap on the peak ELAs from last year. You I think all understand our ELA cycle,which has tremendous value to our clients and tremendous value to our financial equation, on
average those are about three-year cycles.
We had the peak cycle in 4Q '19. We grew software revenue 10% off of that and underpinning
that to transactional volume in that software was up close to 30% overall. So, we were in a trough
year. We knew fourth quarter was going to be the most challenging quarter all year long and
we've been talking about
That. Now, it's really the confluence of one that peak cycle wrap which we know about, because
our volumes came in pretty much what we expected. But what you're seeing to the second part
of your question is yes, is there shifts that are moving to the cloud, yes, and by the way, I think
we're capitalizing on that. We got a $25 billion Cloud base of business that's growing 20% and
we've got continued acceleration in our hybrid cloud platform with very good performance in Red
Hat, which we could talk about later.
But the confluence of what happened to software is really given the uncertainty in the
environment. Clients are reluctant to commit long-term duration of deals and that really hurt our
what you would call an AUR or deal value size. Now there are some positives to that, which I'm
sure Arvind will get into. Number one, we got shorter-term durations now, so we have a much
higher ELA pool in 2021. Number two, we had a very strong, in fact record renewal rates, which
led to a record deferred income balance, $17.1 billion overall and even stripping out Red Hat, we
had the strongest quarter-to-quarter deferred income and renewal rate in our core software
organic business that we've seen in 10 years. I think that's a great instantiation of our clients
committing to the value of our software portfolio overall.
So with that, let me turn it over to Arvind. You can address the second piece.
A - `Arvind Krishna, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Jim and Toni, I'll address some of the software pieces, but you asked the question about
the mid-single digit growth in 2022. So Toni, let me try and just deconstruct it a little bit. Red Hat
continues to have very strong performance, mid to maybe high-teens growth. And as it gets
bigger and bigger, that's a bigger contributor to the total. Second, GBS is going to return to pre-
pandemic levels of our mid-year and we actually expected to accelerate from there into 2022,
we will see better growth from there. In Systems as you know, we are not going to see the
product cycle dynamics as headwinds but as tailwinds going into 2022 albeit the absolute
numbers are not obviously that big.
Our ecosystem investments that we're making, they benefit both GBS and software and by
ecosystem, I mean, both small and big partners that we work with while pulling both services and
software. So, when we see for example, Salesforce or Adobe or ServiceNow or Workday, they all
tend to pull a lot of our services work. We also partner by the way with the other hyper scaling
clouds both Microsoft and Amazon, and that tends to pull a lot of GBS work. On the other side,
we are also partnering with a lot of smaller software vendors and they tend to pull a lot of our
software along with it. So that is that.
Now, you asked about the inorganic and organic. I'll call it the business as usual inorganic, is
included in my mid single-digit assessment. So, by business as usual, it's just what we do. You've
seen us do this for the last three quarters now, so deals like that would be included. And that, for
example, we did Instana and StackRox in software, now we did five others in services, they are
not very large but they do tend to pull the overall business. That is what gives me confidence that
as we get through all of this, we got one, two, three growth vectors and one kind of flat vectorA - `Patricia Murphy, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you, Toni. Can we please take the next question?
Operator
Our next question comes from `Katy Huberty, Analyst, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.
Q - `Katy Huberty, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thank you. Good afternoon. Can you just clarify whether you expect revenue growth at constant
currency this year? And then you provided pretty specific commentary around the revenue
trajectory and revenue growth on a reported basis for '21 as well as normalized free cash flow,
but you didn't speak to EPS. So, is there a reason that there is less visibility into earnings this year?
And can you talk just broadly about what some of the headwinds and tailwinds would be on the
EPS line this year?
A - `Arvind Krishna, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So Katy, why I don't I start on why we gave the guidance on revenue and on free cash flow,
and then I think Jim will get into the details on your other parts of the question. Look, I've been
sort of clear, I want to measure the company on revenue growth. Revenue growth is the most
important metric that I'm focused on. And so we talked about the revenue growth both for this
year and for next year, which is unusual for us.
The second part, in order to get revenue growth, we need to be able to do investments.
Investments are driven by free cash flow. And free cash flow, it's a very clean number. So you can
see what that is, as we have talked about that with complete transparency both on what it is
going to be and why it will grow also from '21 to '22. That's also what we're going to measure our
people on internally, and that will let then our investors know what we're measuring on. So that's
why those are the two numbers that we are focused on driving, that's the numbers we're
focused that on giving you, so you could hold us accountable to those.
Jim?
A - `James Kavanaugh, Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Finance and Operations `
Okay. And Katy, let's talk a little bit about the revenue profile. I think Arvind just answered the two
metrics. And by the way, I could tell you, we flip the whole operational management system.
Arvind spent a lot of time about the operating model changes, the actions he has taken on how
we drive signposts, milestones to deliver on those two fundamental objectives, which by the way
after the third quarter Arvind and I did an extensive outreach to many of our investors and we got
unanimous feedback on what those two measures should be which is where sustainability of
revenue and operating free cash sort of fuel the investment overall.
But let's talk about revenue. So we talked about growth at current spot rates. You see in the
supplemental charts, you see where the U.S. dollar has weakened, right now at current spot
rates, we expect the full year somewhere around two points of a tailwind overall, pretty unique
position on where we've been for the last 10 years. But underneath that, we did say that we
expect the fundamentals of the business trajectory across our segments to improve first half to
second half. And that is going to be important because to an earlier question that acceleration
has to position us for an exit velocity to get into 2022 around having a credible path for mid-
single digit growth which is what our objective is.I would tell you, overall, we expect IBM RemainCo to grow both at actual rates and at constant
currency. So that trajectory overall should give you a perspective right off the bad, about where
we should end going forward. NewCo, given where we ended in our backlog, we see improving
trends but not getting back to growth, because again as I said earlier, we are focused on the
fundamentals of that business, margin, profit, cash and the strong EBITDA profile to set it up with
a investment grade balance sheet to absorb and deliver free cash flow yield and dividend yield
overall.
Underneath that, you can imagine, our two growth engines, Arvind talked about, software and
GBS. And by the way, both of them we see growth accelerating throughout the year, software
being driven by strong Red Hat. Red Hat as we talked about, we exited over $5 billion of backlog;
$2.8 billion of deferred revenue. We already replenished more than what we acquired pre-
acquisition. And by the way that backlog of $5 billion has grown in mid '20s. So the acceleration
coming off the trough in third quarter up 16, we just posted plus 17, that should continue to
accelerate as we move through.
And then GBS, we exited our backlogs up. Our signings of small deals were up nicely and
accelerated from 3Q to 4Q. We got acquisitions -- we're going to continue to scale. Our book-to-
bill exiting fourth quarter was 1.3, the strongest it's been in a long period of time and we've got a
nice backlog revenue run out in '21 that shows that acceleration which gives us confidence that we
can get back to pre-pandemic growth as early as the mid-year.
A - `Patricia Murphy, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you, Katy. Ivy, can we please take the next question?
Operator
Our next question comes from `Matt Cabral, Analyst, Credit Suisse with Credit Suisse. Your line is open.
Q - `Matt Cabral, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Yeah, thank you. I want to build on those last comments around GBS, and just dig a little bit more.
It looks like apps management was still the major drag, despite a little bit of (inaudible) compare
versus the third quarter. Just wondering if you could unpack what's going on underneath there?
And going forward, just how would you think about the potential of some pull through from Red
Hat related work -- like a re-platform and modernize some legacy on-prem apps, and just bigger
picture the path back to growth for apps management and what that looks like from here?
A - `James Kavanaugh, Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Finance and Operations `
Yeah. Thanks, Matt. I'll take this one. To your question, application management services overall is
an integral part of our overall hybrid cloud platform thesis. As Arvind talked about already and we
shared even the prepared chart, that platform has an economic equation that has a multiplier
effect. And we talked about what for every dollar of platform, we get $3 to $5 of software, we
get $6 to $8 of services both IBM and even as we scale with our ecosystem partnerships that
we've accelerated over the last six months, they get into that return also.
But let's talk about AMS. We've been speaking about this for the last few quarters. There
definitely is a secular shift. We know it. A shift from on-prem enterprise application component,
clients are prioritizing stability of applications in this environment, and we all know the reduced
discretionary spend component. But there is a flip side to that shift that's happening overall and
that's exactly where you went which clients are accelerating their digital transformation andjourneys to cloud. And we participate, and as you look at GBS' cloud business, we exited the year
with almost a $6 billion book of business accelerating throughout the year. We finished the year
up double digits overall, up 11%. And AMS underneath that is up almost 10%. So a very big
component of that as it's essential from a cloud transformation services as part of that hybrid
cloud platform.
Underneath that, what's driving it is application modernization work. That's where we participate
in the full spectrum from advise to build to move and to manage. The front end of that advise
and build is predominantly a consulting-based play, consulting is up nicely in our backlog 17%, but
as that journey continues, we'll start seeing AMS come back.
And just a few data points for you. Number one, with that secular shift to the cloud, we are
capitalizing, as I said, AMS of up 8% in our total cloud book of business. We return AMS back in
total to signings growth in the quarter. Our backlog improved 5 points quarter-to-quarter. And to
the heart of your question, 80% of our Red Hat and Cloud Pak placements our AMS incumbency
enterprise clients. So it has tremendous value in leveraging that overall and which is why we think
it's essential to have a differentiated value proposition for our hybrid cloud platform.
A - `Patricia Murphy, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Matt. Can we please take the next question?
Operator
Our next question is from `Tien-Tsin Huang, Analyst, JP Morgan with JP Morgan. Your line is open.
Q - `Tien-Tsin Huang, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Thanks. Thanks for extending the call for us here. I think Katy asked about EPS. I'm not sure if I
heard in your answer. Any call-outs on EPS cadence first half versus second half beyond the $260
million in charges and enormous seasonality? I know you're not giving formal guidance, but I
thought I'd ask anyway. But on the revenue side, just thinking about -- I know you've said a lot
again on revenue, but if you're looking at revenue growth for fiscal '21, I know you talked about
revenue growth in fiscal '20, but of course, COVID hit and the world changed. So how is your
outlook this year for growth different from this time last year in terms of your conviction? I heard
some of the drivers, but just really here asking about conviction and visibility?
A - `Arvind Krishna, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Hi, Tien-Tsin. So let me start about the conviction on revenue growth. So look from what we can
see compared to what we saw last year, which is why we did not provide guidance in 2020 or
rather we pulled guidance back in April, we feel that the economy while there is uncertainty,
certainly better than it was last year. So we don't expect to see anything worth compared to last
year.
If anything, we talked about the second half being better because we expect as we get through
that there is going to be more demand, these projects are going to go forward. And as we look
underneath because also in the question that Matt had about Red Hat and modernization, you
can also see that people are signing up for bigger and bigger projects around modernization
because they need to move on to their businesses also. There is only so long that you can belt-
tighten and not come out well. So they are sort of getting passed their belt-tightening we think
somewhere in the next six months. So that is why we have a lot more conviction and that is why
you heard Jim talk about the collar from first half to second half and going forward into 2022 ofan increasing trajectory and he talked about there is going to be growth for the remaining
company at both spot rates and at constant currency. So, that is why we have conviction when we
look at our underlying backlogs, when we look at our pipelines and we look at the demand
profiles across those parts of the business, hence the conviction in the revenue growth. Jim?
A - `James Kavanaugh, Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Finance and Operations `
Yeah, I would just add to that. Tien-Tsin, thank you for the question. Again, as Arvind talked, this is
a mindset change in how we want to operate the company. We define the strategy, all-in
focused, aligned our portfolio, aligned our operating model. Now, it's about growth and it's about
driving that operating free cash flow, which is going to fuel that investment. So, around that, we
talked about the trajectory overall. First of all, I should have mentioned -- I mean as you could see
in the supplemental chart, although, we said revenue growth at current spot rates, you see that
that's predominantly a first half discussion. It's about 3 points to 4 points of tailwind in the first half
and that dissipates quickly in the second half overall, which is why the fundamentals of the
underlying business by segment, we'll have to improve and we expect it to improve as we move
through the year.
The other thing I will tell you underpinning, this is a fair question. As I stated, I think we've built the
credibility over the last few years that we know how to drive operating leverage within this
business. So, you can expect we grew up gross margins this year I think about 130 basis points,
70 basis points in the fourth quarter, you can expect that we're going to continue to drive
operating leverage in this business and more have margin expansion in '21. And second, the
other variable that you always ask me and we talk about and we try to be very transparent
underneath it is our tax rate. And while we operate in 100-plus countries around the world, the
geographic product mix can impact that dramatically. Tax structures, audits, et cetera can change
it.
From our perspective, we finished fourth quarter at what I think 10.4% from an operating tax rate,
pretty consistent by the way of third quarter and pretty consistent last year and just given what I
said earlier, one on a book tax rate, we're going to have a headwind on cash taxes. I would
expect our tax rate to go up a few points from that 10.4%. So, it gives you a little bit more color
underneath the revenue profile, the operating leverage and tax and again, we're just trying to
change our mindset here.
A - `Patricia Murphy, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Tien-Tsin. Let's go to the next question please.
Operator
Our next question comes from `David Grossman, Analyst, Stifel Nicolaus from Stifel Nicolaus. Your line is open.
Q - `David Grossman, Analyst, Stifel Nicolaus `
Thank you. Arvind, perhaps you could be a little more specific about what you were seeing in the
legacy sales and marketing structure, which precipitated the reorg and maybe identify what
changes you expect to be most impactful and why? And sorry for the two-part question. But Jim,
perhaps you could reflect on whether there is or how much if any free cash tailwind you're seeing
in '20 and '21 and '22 from the change in the IGF receivables? Thanks.
A - `Arvind Krishna, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `Hi, David. Look, this is something I'm deeply, deeply passionate about. So, I'm happy to talk about
this. Look, every model has its time and then it's time to evolve. We are evolving in reaction to
client needs. And we had sort of operated with a I'll call it a more homogeneous model that kind
of went across all our segments, all our clients for a long time. So, what are we doing. There is a
set of clients who do tend to buy I'll call it a lot of IBM, let's call them they need the integrated
value of IBM, we're calling that the first segment. So, in this first segment, we are also going to
make extra investments in them being able to experience IBM technically, so we are using the
term garages. We will have people who will go in there and work side-by-side with the client,
while virtually right now as well as being able to have a lot of focus on deployment and we'll pay
the people on deployment not on selling.
So, this first segment is going to have that attention with extra this thing. So, they should see a lot
of positive and we expect to see growth coming out of our garages and our deployment
managers. Then there is a segment, which is largely going to be channel ready. So, there we do
get, as Jim talked about operational leverage, you don't need the other people, the channel is
quite capable but rather put more money into the channel and work with them to go after that,
that's the other end of the spectrum. Then there is a set of clients, let's call it, between these
two spectrums, they tend to buy mostly from one or two parts of IBM. So, they deeply value the
specialists but they don't need the generalists who were covering them. So, we are going to take
that money and instead pour into more specialists who can then cover those clients. So, there is a
first segment, which does have a integrated value. There is the top half of the second segment,
which is going to be much more specialists. You can think of them as being technology-led sales
by and large and then there is going to be a large part, which is ecosystem-led, whether the
system integrators, resellers, distributors, et cetera.
We believe that this simplicity is going to drive a lot more outcome for us and for our clients. And
by the way, we are also going to ensure that this is the structure that all parts of IBM have. So, it's
not that different parts of IBM, but have slightly different client segmentations, it's completely
consistent across all. This we believe unlocks a few points of revenue growth. So, you said
impactful. I expect that this will unlock a few points of revenue growth albeit, let me acknowledge
that it probably takes six months to flow through the system.
A - `James Kavanaugh, Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Finance and Operations `
Okay, David, I'll -- let me address your good question around the IGF business and the tailwinds
overall. First, to just taking a step back, you know, within that overall IGF, consistent with our
strategy, we are focusing this part of our portfolio directly aligned to be a captive financing
aligned to our hybrid cloud and AI platform strategy overall. And you've seen us take a disciplined
approach around both portfolio and financial management. What am I saying. One early in '29
[ph] we started winding down our OEM financing business. Then in 2020 is part of prudent
austerity measures as we prioritize liquidity. We actually announced and you heard that in the
fourth quarter selling our IBM commercial financing receivables as part of our risk mitigation cash
and liquidity management practices.
So, now let me bring this all back together because I think these actions that we've taken have
resulted in a more focused and healthier financing portfolio with a very much better overall debt
level and refinancing requirements that are not going to be needed overall. So, if you look at the
strengthening of our balance sheet, our liquidity position, exiting 2020, we talked about $14.3
billion of cash on the balance sheet. We talked about $11 billion to $12 billion of adjusted free cash
flow. We got about $4 billion to $5 billion in 2020 around leveraging and focusing that strategy
about IGF and I would assume, probably some very similar to that overall. So, when you take the
power of those three buckets, $14 billion of cash, which I should tell you is about 2x the operatinglevel that we need to run this company. So, the excess cash there, the strong free cash flow
generation and the IGF actions of $3 billion to $5 billion let's call it, you got about $30 billion of
firepower. Now, that's a source of cash view.
Now we all know and use of cash view what do we know, one, I talked about the $3 billion, which
will be cash out the door with regards to the structural actions and the cash taxes based on the
transaction. Second, we are very committed to our secure and modestly growing dividend policy,
that's about $6 billion. And then third, we continue to plan to delever and our normal maturities
are a little bit less than $7 billion this year. You add those up, you're about $15 billion plus. So,
we've got firepower here that gives us the financial flexibility to continue to invest in our business,
delever to get back to our targeted leverage ratios and also support that secure and modestly
growing dividend.
A - `Patricia Murphy, Vice President, Investor Relations `
So, we've gone pretty long here. Why don't we just -- Arvind, you want to make just a quick
comment to wrap it up.
A - `Arvind Krishna, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks. Thanks, Pat. So, we covered a lot today. So, let me just make a couple of really quick
comments to wrap this up. We are confident in our strategy. We are taking the actions that will
accelerate this change. We expect to grow in 2021 with an improving project rate through the
year. And with all of that, we will look different at the end of 2021 than we do today. I look forward
to continuing this dialog with you. Thank you, everyone.
A - `Patricia Murphy, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Ivy, can I turn it back to you to close out the call please.
Operator
Absolutely. Thank you for participating in today's call. The conference has now ended. You may
disconnect at this time.