Q4 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Welcome, and thank you for standing by. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions)
Now, I will turn the meeting over to `Olympia McNerney, Global Head, Investor Relations, IBM's Global Head of Investor Relations.
Olympia, you may begin.
`Olympia McNerney, Global Head, Investor Relations `
Thank you. I'd like to welcome you to IBM's Fourth Quarter 2024 Earnings Presentation. I'm
`Olympia McNerney, Global Head, Investor Relations, and I'm here today with `Arvind Krishna, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, IBM's Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer; and Jim Kavanaugh, IBM's Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
We'll post today's prepared remarks on the IBM website within a couple of hours, and a replay
will be available by this time tomorrow.
To provide additional information to our investors, our presentation includes certain non-GAAP
measures. For example, all of our references to revenue and signings growth are at constant
currency. We provided reconciliation charts for these and other non-GAAP financial measures at
the end of the presentation, which is posted to our investor website.
Finally, some comments made in this presentation may be considered forward-looking under the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve factors that could
cause our actual results to differ materially. Additional information about these factors is included
in the company's SEC filings.
So with that, I'll turn the call over to Arvind.
`Arvind Krishna, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you for joining us today.
Let me start by reflecting on our strong close to 2024 and performance over the mid-term
model, then get into more detail on the execution of our strategy. We are pleased with theWe saw continued acceleration in Software and our highest level of cash flow generation in many
years.
As we close out the mid-term model we laid out at the end of '21, I am proud of our
achievements. We met or exceeded our target metrics for revenue growth, profitability, and free
cash flow growth. We set out a plan for mid-single-digit growth and we delivered on it, growing
our revenue by a 6% CAGR over this period.
All of our segments delivered revenue growth in line with our model over the last three years.
Software grew ahead of our goal of mid-single-digits, and this momentum continued with 9%
growth in 2024. We committed to accelerate the growth of Red Hat and we delivered double-
digits for the year. Infrastructure performed in line with our model as we invested in innovation
and transformed the business model. Consulting met the model for high-single-digit growth,
although we acknowledge 2024 was below model. We are confident that our investment in
partnerships and skills as well as our early leadership in GenAI position us to accelerate
Consulting growth as we move forward. Overall, our technology momentum and Consulting
signings bolster our confidence in our future performance.
Before getting deeper into our execution, I'll make a few comments on the macroeconomic
environment. As we look at the broader environment, IBM's mission to help businesses leverage
technology to both scale revenue and grow profitably is more critical than ever. Geopolitical
tensions, interest-rate volatility, supply-chain vulnerabilities, demographic shifts, evolving cyber
threats are creating headwinds for businesses worldwide. In this context, technology is key to
drive sustainable growth. IBM's combination of advanced technology and deep consulting
expertise positions us to uniquely deliver end-to-end business transformations.
We entered the year intent on enhancing our portfolio. Software is now about 45% of our
business with more than $15 billion of ARR, growing at double-digits. We delivered strong and
accelerating revenue growth of 11% in the fourth quarter, which includes 8 points of organic
growth and strength across the portfolio. This growth was led by Red Hat, up 17% in the quarter.
Our early leadership in generative AI and the Consulting Advantage platform have positioned us
well in today's evolving market. In infrastructure, z16 is our most successful program in history,
highlighting customer adoption and continued reliance on the mainframe. We see more
opportunities ahead as our Infrastructure solutions play a crucial role in helping clients bring AI
workloads closer to their data and we will launch z17 in the middle of 2025.
Let me now address our progress in generative AI. We continue to gain momentum with our
GenAI book of business growing to over $5 billion inception-to-date, up by about $2 billion
quarter-over-quarter. Approximately one-fifth of this book of business comes from software and
the remaining four-fifths is Consulting. Our AI portfolio is tailored to meet the diverse needs of
enterprise clients, enabling them to leverage a mix of models, IBMs, their own, open models
from Hugging Face, Meta and Mistral. IBM's Granite models designed for specific purposes are
90% more cost-efficient than larger alternatives.
Additionally, RHEL AI and OpenShift AI provide clients with a consistent and scalable AI foundation
built on open-source technology. This quarter, we saw strong traction in our watsonx middleware
solutions and AI assistance, including, watsonx.gov, watsonx code assistant for Z, watsonx
Orchestrate, as well as products embedding AI such as Concert, and consulting remains key to
designing and implementing AI use cases driving watsonx deployment. Through the year, we
introduced key innovations that are resonating with clients. This quarter, we launched OpenShift
Virtualization Engine to meet growing virtualization demand.Execution, I'll make a few comments on the macroeconomic environment. As we look at the
broader environment, IBM's mission to help businesses leverage technology to both scale
revenue and grow profitably is more critical than ever. Geopolitical tensions, interest rate volatility,
supply chain vulnerabilities, demographic shifts, evolving cyber threats are creating headwinds for
businesses worldwide. In this context, technology is key to drive sustainable growth. IBM's
combination of advanced technology and deep consulting expertise positions us to uniquely
deliver end-to-end business transformations.
We entered the year intent on enhancing our portfolio. Software is now about 45% of our
business with more than $15 billion of ARR, growing at double-digits. We delivered strong and
accelerating revenue growth of 11% in the fourth quarter, which includes 8 points of organic
growth and strength across the portfolio. This growth was led by Red Hat, up 17% in the quarter.
Our early leadership in generative AI and the Consulting Advantage platform have positioned us
well in today's evolving market.
In infrastructure, z16 is our most successful program in history, highlighting customer adoption and
continued reliance on the mainframe. We see more opportunities ahead as our Infrastructure
solutions play a crucial role in helping clients bring AI workloads closer to their data and we will
launch z17 in the middle of 2025.
Let me now address our progress in generative AI. We continue to gain momentum with our
GenAI book of business growing to over $5 billion inception-to-date, up by about $2 billion
quarter-over-quarter. Approximately one-fifth of this book of business comes from Software and
the remaining four-fifths is Consulting. Our AI portfolio is tailored to meet the diverse needs of
enterprise clients, enabling them to leverage a mix of models, IBM's, their own, open models
from Hugging Face, Meta, and Mistral. IBM's Granite models designed for specific purposes are
90% more cost-efficient than larger alternatives.
Additionally, RHEL AI and OpenShift AI provide clients with a consistent and scalable AI foundation
built on open-source technology. This quarter, we saw strong traction in our watsonx middleware
solutions and AI assistance, including, watsonx.gov, watsonx.ai, watsonx Code Assistant for Z,
watsonx Orchestrate, as well as products embedding AI such as Concert, and Consulting remains
key to designing and implementing AI use cases driving watsonx deployment.
Through the year, we introduced key innovations that are resonating with clients. This quarter, we
launched OpenShift Virtualization Engine to meet growing virtualization demand. In Infrastructure,
the Telum II processor enhances IBM Z's AI capabilities and performance. We just announced RISE
with SAP on IBM Power Virtual Server, offering the fastest and easiest migration from on-premises
to cloud for the 10,000 plus clients who use SAP on IBM Power. The Consulting Advantage
platform is integrating our technology and industry expertise to drive business transformation.
With more than 75 quantum systems deployed worldwide, our focus on emerging innovation is
clear.
This quarter, we announced a collaboration with the State of Illinois to establish the National
Quantum Algorithm Center in Chicago. M&A remains a key enabler of our strategy. The
acquisition of Neural Magic strengthens our AI solutions with advanced model optimization.
Clients worldwide trust IBM to lead transformations. Notable examples this quarter include
NatWest and Lockheed Martin, leveraging our Granite models for advanced AI applications.
L'Oreal is partnering with IBM to use our AI, consulting, and research capabilities to develop
foundation models for cosmetics formulation. We also collaborated with UFC and Ferrari, helping
them tap into IBM's AI and consulting expertise to drive operational efficiency.Announced earlier this month, IBM and the UK Home Office will partner on the Emergency
Services Network, supporting more than 300,000 emergency responders in Great Britain. Our
ecosystem continues to expand as we strengthen our partnerships with leading technology
providers, including AMD, Palo Alto Networks, SAP, Amazon, Microsoft, and CoreWeave. These
partnerships allow us to co-innovate and deliver greater value to clients.
Before I conclude, let me touch on our outlook. We see continued momentum in our business,
driven by our focused strategy, enhanced portfolio and culture of innovation. For 2025, we expect
revenue growth inflecting higher to 5% plus and about $13.5 billion of free cash flow. I look
forward to sharing more details at our upcoming Investor Day on February 4th.
I will now hand over to Jim to walk you through the details of the quarter. Jim, over to you.
`James J. Kavanaugh, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Arvind.
For the full year, we delivered about $63 billion in revenue, $11.2 billion of operating pre-tax
income and operating earnings per share of $10.33. And we generated $12.7 billion of free cash
flow, our strongest level of free cash flow generation in many years and our highest reported
free cash flow margin in history. Revenue growth combined with 120 basis points of operating
pre-tax margin expansion drove 9% operating pre-tax profit growth, 14% free cash flow growth,
and 7% operating diluted earnings per share growth. We are pleased with these results,
delivering durable revenue growth in our repositioned business and exceeding our expectations
on profitability, free cash flow, and earnings per share.
Revenue performance for the year was led by Software, up 9%, with strength across our
portfolio. We achieved Rule of 40, driven by the combination of accelerating growth and margin
expansion throughout the year. Consulting revenue was up 1% and continued to be impacted by a
dynamic market environment as clients reprioritized spending. While infrastructure was down 3%,
reflecting product cycle dynamics, we delivered more than 120% program-to-program growth for
z16, our most successful program in history.
Our portfolio mix, operating leverage, and yield from productivity initiatives generated strong
operating gross margin and operating profit performance. For the full year, we expanded
operating gross profit margin by 130 basis points. Our operating pre-tax margin expanded by 120
basis points, ahead of our expectations and well above our model. These results represent our
highest level of operating gross margin and operating pre-tax margin in many years.
Now turning to a deeper dive on the quarter, we generated $17.6 billion of revenue, up over 2% at
constant currency and ahead of our expectation. Software growth accelerated to 11% with
strength across our key categories of Red Hat, Automation, Data & AI, and Transaction
Processing. Consulting was down 1%. This quarter, we achieved record levels of signings and
strong sequential growth in our generative AI book of business, reflecting our early leadership in
the areas our clients are prioritizing. Infrastructure was down 6%, reflecting product cycle
dynamics in our 11th quarter of z16.
Looking at our profit metrics, in the fourth quarter, we expanded operating gross margin by 50
basis points and operating pre-tax margin by 40 basis points. We are pleased with this strong
performance driven by our portfolio mix, operating leverage, and ongoing productivity initiatives,
similar to the full year. This allowed for continued investments to drive innovation in our portfolio,
which you can see in our higher R&D expense, up 13%. Our operating tax rate was 14%, which is
flat versus last year. And our operating earnings per share of $3.92 was up 1%.For the full year, we generated $12.7 billion of free cash flow, up $1.5 billion and growing 14%. The
largest driver of this growth comes from adjusted EBITDA, up about $900 million year-over-year.
We realized $500 million in proceeds from the Palo Alto QRadar transaction, which was a small
contribution to free cash flow given the payout of structural actions and foregone profit.
We also delivered sustainable lower cash requirements through changes in our retirement plans.
As we close out the mid-term model we introduced in 2021, we've grown free cash flow faster
than revenue in each of the last three years, have exited 2024 with our highest free cash flow
margin in reported history and our free cash flow run rate is above our mid-term model.
In terms of cash uses for the year, we invested over $3 billion on acquisitions and we returned just
over $6 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends. Looking at the balance sheet, we ended
the year with a strong liquidity position with cash of $14.8 billion, which is up $1.3 billion year-over-
year. Our debt balance ended the year down $1.6 billion at $55 billion, including approximately $12
billion of debt associated with our financing business.
Turning to the segments. Software revenue growth accelerated to 11% in the fourth quarter,
driven by strength across the portfolio, with growth of 17% for Red Hat, 16% for Automation, 11%
for Transaction Processing, and 5% for both Data & AI and Security. We are pleased with how we
finished the year, exceeding the Rule of 40 and the growth driver expectations we set back in
January.
Let me dive in a little deeper on each of these growth drivers. We continue to see momentum in
Red Hat with fourth quarter revenue growth of 17%, fueled by six consecutive quarters of double-
digit bookings growth. This performance reflects the continued demand for our hybrid cloud
solutions as clients are prioritizing application modernization on open-shift containers and Ansible
automation to optimize their IT spend and reduce operational complexity. OpenShift is now $1.4
billion ARR business, growing about 25%, and we continue to see increased volume in OpenShift
Virtualization engagements.
In addition to the strength in subscriptions, we saw a recovery in the consumption-based services
business. Looking forward, Red Hat six-month revenue under contract, a reflection of the strong
bookings performance mentioned, continues to grow in the mid-teens. We delivered strong
results in our recurring revenue base and are seeing momentum from innovation across our
portfolio. Our Hybrid Platform & Solutions ARR was $15.3 billion, up 11%. Transaction Processing
delivered another strong quarter, driven by growing capacity demands, solid renewal rates, and
increasing contribution from our generative AI product watsonx Code Assistant for Z.
We continue to introduce new products, which are making a meaningful impact on Software's
results. We have confidence in our portfolio with our market-leading businesses centered around
hybrid cloud, automation, data, and transaction processing. In the quarter, about 8 points of our
growth was organic, led by demand for our generative AI products like Concert and our AI
assistants. We launched new products such as next generation of watsonx Code Assistant that
provides coding support for multiple languages and Guardium Quantum Safe that helps
organization monitor and manage their cryptographic security to fix vulnerabilities.
And these investments in generative AI are paying off with the Software AI book of business
reaching about $1 billion inception-to-date in the fourth quarter. Our performance continues to
benefit from our recent acquisitions. We are seeing growing contribution from the StreamSets
and webMethods assets acquired in the second quarter. And at the end of 2024, we closed the
acquisition of Neural Magic, which strengthens our AI capabilities in performance engineering andmodel optimization. And we are looking forward to the opportunities that the pending HashiCorp
acquisition will bring.
Looking at Software profit for the quarter, gross margin expanded and segment profit was up
over 220 basis points year-to-year, reflecting operating leverage driven by our revenue
performance. In Consulting, revenue was down 1%. Throughout the year, we have operated in a
dynamic macroeconomic environment. We continue to see clients reprioritizing their IT spending
towards digital transformation and AI initiatives for cost optimization and operational efficiency as
we wrap on a strong above-market performance in 2023.
Our focus remains on rapidly evolving our offerings and enhancing investments in skills and
capabilities to align with these priorities. Our ability to address client demands drove signings
growth of 23% in the quarter, our highest fourth quarter signings in recent history. Generative AI
contributed about $1.5 billion of new bookings in the quarter as clients see the value our
extensive industry and enterprise AI expertise can bring to accelerating their digital
transformations.
The strong signings performance takes our book-to-bill ratio up to 1.21% over the last 12 months.
Our overall backlog remains healthy, up 8% year-over-year, and our backlog erosion levels remain
stable. Our Red Hat practice delivered another record-breaking quarter of signings and double-
digit revenue growth and we now have an annual revenue of nearly $3 billion.
In the quarter, strategic partnerships were a growth contributor, both in signings and revenue with
solid performance from partnerships with AWS and Azure. We are actively investing to enhance
our skills and capabilities to address our clients' top priorities with acquisitions like Accelalpha, a
global Oracle services provider, which closed in the fourth quarter. And earlier this month, we
announced our intent to acquire Applications Technology Software, a consultancy known for
driving business transformation with Oracle cloud applications.
Turning to our lines of business, Business Transformation revenue grew 2%, driven by continued
strength in transformational projects for data, finance, and supply chain. Both Technology
Consulting and Application Operations declined in the quarter. Similar to last quarter, there was
strength in cloud-based application services across modernization, development, and
management. But we continue to see clients reprioritize spending away from on-prem
customized services.
Looking at Consulting profit, we delivered segment profit margin of nearly 12%, a sequential
expansion of almost 1 point, as we continue to realize the benefits of our productivity actions.
Moving to the Infrastructure segment, revenue was down 6%, reflecting product cycle dynamics.
Hybrid Infrastructure was down 8% and Infrastructure Support was flat.
Within Hybrid Infrastructure, IBM Z revenue is down 20% in the quarter. This is the 11th quarter of
z16 availability and the combination of resiliency, reliability, and security continues to resonate with
clients. Nearly three years in, this product cycle has outpaced prior cycles and program-to-date
installed MIPS have increased over 30% as clients' capacity needs continue to grow. IBM Z
remains an enduring platform for mission-critical workloads, driving not just hardware adoption,
but also the related software, storage, and services.
Distributed Infrastructure revenue grew 2%. This performance was fueled by double-digit growth
in storage as we introduced new innovation in quarter designed to give clients the ability to scale
storage capacity to meet growing data demands to support the next-generation of AI workloads
and projects. For Infrastructure profit, we expanded gross profit margin nearly 2 pointswhere we are in the product cycle and continued investments in innovation. For the full year, our
segment profit margin was 17.5%.
Now let me bring it back up to the IBM level to wrap up. As Arvind mentioned, we met or
exceeded our mid-term model target metrics for revenue growth, profitability, and free cash flow
growth. And we have fundamentally repositioned our business to a software-led integrated
platform.
Let me now turn to 2025 guidance on our two key measures of success, revenue growth and
free cash flow. We expect constant currency revenue growth inflecting higher to 5% plus, and we
expect to grow free cash flow faster than revenue growth with about $13.5 billion of free cash
flow. Given the continued strengthening of the dollar, we expect currency to be about a 2-point
headwind to revenue growth for the year. Our revenue expectations are underpinned by
accelerating growth across our businesses.
In Software, given the strength of our portfolio, investment in innovation and the contribution
from acquisitions, we expect revenue growth approaching double-digits. We continue to see the
strength in Red Hat with mid-teens growth for the year. In Consulting, the combination of our
backlog levels, record signings in the fourth quarter, and our book of business in GenAI support
an acceleration in growth to low-single-digits. And with our new mainframe launch in mid-2025,
we expect Infrastructure to be about a point contribution to IBM's overall revenue growth.
For the full year, we expect IBM's operating pre-tax margin to expand by over 0.5 point. Portfolio
mix and ongoing productivity initiatives continue to drive margin expansion, mitigated by the
impact of dilution from acquisitions. Our tax rate for the year should be in the mid-teens, and as
always, the timing of discrete items can cause the rate to vary within the year.
For free cash flow, we expect to generate about $13.5 billion in 2025. Given the strong
fundamentals of our business, we expect double-digit adjusted EBITDA growth, which is the
primary driver of our free cash flow. This will be offset by cash tax headwinds and higher CapEx.
Our productivity initiatives have enabled investments in innovation, skills, and go-to-market
capabilities, including our ecosystem. We have accomplished this while simultaneously growing
our operating profit margin and free cash flow, which in turn has increased our financial flexibility.
This remains our playbook going forward, having executed on $3.5 billion of annual run rate
savings exiting 2024, supporting our strong free cash flow growing in excess of revenue.
Looking to the first quarter, I expect our constant currency revenue growth rate to be similar to
the fourth quarter. We expect workforce rebalancing fairly consistent with prior year. We are also
wrapping on the $241 million gain from the divestiture of The Weather Company. Excluding the
year-over-year impact of the gain, we expect about 50 basis points of operating pre-tax margin
expansion. It is hard to predict discrete events. But our best view is that the first quarter tax rate
could be a few points lower than the full year rate, but still a headwind over last year.
In summary, we have delivered durable growth over the mid-term model and expect to drive an
upwards inflection. We have repositioned our business and are excited about 2025 and beyond.
We look forward to discussing more details at our upcoming Investor Day on February 4th.
Arvind and I are now happy to take your questions. Olympia, let's get started.
`Olympia McNerney, Global Head, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Jim. Before we begin the Q&A, I'd like to mention a couple of items. First,I'd ask you to refrain from multipart questions. Operator, let's please open up for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. And at this time, we'll begin the question-and-answer session of the conference.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from `Amit Daryanani, Analyst, Evercore ISI with Evercore ISI.
Please state your question.
Q - `Amit Daryanani, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Thanks for taking my question. Good afternoon, everyone. I was hoping if you could just talk a
little bit about when I think about the calendar '25 guide you folks just provided, if you could just
provide some context around linearity and how that could play out, maybe you can talk about H1
versus H2 perspective, given I think some of the consulting and mainframe tailwinds could be a
bit more back-half (inaudible), if you could just touch on kind of first half versus second half or
anything on the linearity that would be helpful as you think about '25?
A - `James J. Kavanaugh, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, Amit, thank you very much and appreciate the question overall. Obviously, we're very
pleased, as we talked about in the prepared remarks, about how we finished on a strong note of
over-delivering on revenue profitability, earnings per share, free cash flow. That gives us the
conviction and the confidence as we guided in 2025 with above Street revenue growth at 5%
plus at constant currency and a very strong free cash flow engine of $13.5 billion of growing nicely
and continuing to grow that free cash flow margin.
But if you look underneath it, linearity, when you get to that point, yes, first half, I would tell you,
you got to answer this by segment. We've got a very strong portfolio, which is executing
extremely well on Software. We see a pretty normal history as we move through a first half,
second half. Obviously, you do have seasonality between a 1Q and a 2Q versus a third quarter
and fourth, but that is -- we got a very hot hand and we're going to continue to invest in
innovation.
Second, on Consulting, we feel pretty good about how we concluded the year with our highest
recorded ever signings quarter, up 23%. We entered the year with a backlog of plus 8%, a strong
book-to-bill at 1.21. We're still dealing with a very dynamic environment around client prioritizing
spend. And I think it's prudent for us right now, although we call low-single-digit for the year to
see that accelerate as we move through the year. So I would see more of a second half play than
a first half play.
And then you get to Infrastructure. We did extremely well at the end of a three-year cycle. Our
most promising program in mainframe, I think ever overall, delivering 122%. Yes, first quarter, we
expect about, again, about a similar point impact to IBM's growth. But second quarter on, we're
back to growth above our model through the year, and that's what gives us confidence in the
guide that we called for the year.
So a little bit of a mix shift, definitely strength in Software, which is going to drive this business
being 45% IBM. But when you bring it all together, maybe it's a point less first half on revenue
versus history versus second half. But from a free cash flow perspective, we're pretty similar to
history overall.A - `Olympia McNerney, Global Head, Investor Relations `
Great. Operator, let's take the next question.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Wamsi Mohan, Analyst, Bank of America with Bank of America. Please state your question.
Q - `Wamsi Mohan, Analyst, Bank of America `
Yes, thank you so much and congrats on the really strong free cash flow performance. Arvind,
would love to get your thoughts around M&A, particularly as we maybe enter a period of
relatively low regulatory overhang. At the same time, you are delivering record cash flows. And if I
could, would love to get some of your thoughts on DeepSeek and any implications that you see
either for the industry broadly or for IBM in particular? Thank you.
A - `Arvind Krishna, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Wamsi. Look, we are looking forward to a regulatory environment that is a bit more
rational and a bit more pro-competition. So I think what that implies for us is that we think
reasonable deals have a very good chance of getting through in a reasonable amount of time
and not being held up for years.
So with that context, that means, obviously, we are going to lean in more, which is reasonable. If
you look at our free cash flow and you look at what we are setting out for the year, that could
leave as much as $7 billion or a bit more than that during the year after accounting for the
dividend.
We always look at a three-year flexibility. I think that's the best way of looking at it, Wamsi. So if
you look at a three-year flexibility, you can kind of borrow ahead, but we do kind of want to live
within sort of what we can afford. And if we find targets that meet our criteria, we are going to
lean in and get things done.
I'm going to just finish that by saying Hashi has been waiting out there for almost a year. We
certainly hope that with a friendlier environment, that gets done soon and that then begins to
open up the aperture for getting more deals done. So I think hopefully that address both the
cash flows and the regulations around M&A.
Look, DeepSeek, I think, was a point of validation. We have been very vocal for about a year that
smaller models and more reasonable training times are going to be essential for enterprise
deployment of large language models. We have been down that journey ourselves for more than
a year. We see as much as 30 times reduction in inference costs using these approaches. As
other people begin to follow that route, we think that this is incredibly good for our enterprise
clients. And we will certainly take advantage of that in our business, but I believe that others will
also follow that route.
A - `Olympia McNerney, Global Head, Investor Relations `
Great. Operator, let's take the next question.
Operator
Your next question comes from Jim Schneider with Goldman Sachs. Please state your question.Q - `James Schneider, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thanks, and good afternoon. Thanks for taking my question. I was wondering if you maybe
highlight two topics, one on Consulting and one on the AI Software side. On the Consulting side
of things, it's good to see the bookings that you're seeing. But can you maybe give us historically,
the context is IBM tends to lag the Consulting business relative to some of your peers, but what
is the level of confidence you have in the revenue yield and revenue recovery you talked about
for the back half of the year and how do you feel about the sort of revenue yield today versus,
say, a year ago?
And then secondly, on the AI Software side, you mentioned the $1 billion book of business purely
within Software, that's pretty substantial. And while there's been some moving parts in terms of
which products have gotten traction, which are the products of the ones you mentioned that you
think are really going to be sort of standouts in the next couple of years from a Software
performance perspective? Thank you.
A - `James J. Kavanaugh, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Jim. I'll take the first one and then Arvind can handle the second one around the
products and Software overall. We take a look at it from a Consulting perspective, we've been
talking about, we have been operating along with every other consulting company in a very
dynamic macroeconomic environment. As with any technological shift, there are going to be
reprioritization of spending that is occurring. Clients, similar to IBM, we are cutting back on
discretionary-based spend, so we can fuel investment into digital transformation and GenAI
overall. We've been seeing that play out throughout 2024. By the way, on top of above-market
performance and gaining significant share over the last six quarters starting in 2023.
Now, why have we been so maniacally focused on the GenAI ramp and our greater than $4 billion
book of business right now coming out six quarters in, which we believe, by the way, we're in a
very early leadership position around that. We're so maniacally focused because enterprise
clients are making their strategic provider of choice decisions. And we are feeling very good
about that greater than $4 billion book of business, which, by the way, is already north of 5% of
our total backlog, which, is as I told Amit in the first question, is up 8% coming into 2025.
Why is that important? Because that is going to be a long-term future vector of growth for
Consulting for us to win that has a multiplier effect that will drag our Software component of our
business going forward. So we feel pretty good. While right now, early in the cycle, it has less
yield, it has higher durations, but we think the TAM opportunity and that multiplier effect are going
to grow into each other. And that's one of a couple of components on why we have conviction of
inflecting back to growth in 2025 with Consulting overall.
A - `Arvind Krishna, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Jim. So let me take the question, Jim, on the product [ph] -- about the Software
products, which I think will be standout. I got to begin with our watsonx family. Our watsonx family
encapsulates our primary products that incorporate LLMs and AI technology. Our watsonx Code
Assistant on how we help our clients modernize their COBOL infrastructures, our code assistance
on how people leverage it for Java, for Ansible have been absolute standouts and have been in
market for almost a year. The rest of the watsonx family also, whether it's about deploying
models using AI or getting the data ready and governance, have also been very strong drivers.
And the piece that most people have not been paying attention to, I want to point out, is in thewhat we are now going to be doing with our Neural Magic acquisition on how do you optimize
and get the most effective use of the hardware using Red Hat. And then when you have large
deployments leveraging OpenShift for AI deployment are the final rounding out of the products.
Look, to be candid, LLMs will infuse many, many other things, but the products that are called out
are the ones where we count it as direct AI products and directly driving the business, and that's
what is counted in the numbers that Jim laid out.
A - `Olympia McNerney, Global Head, Investor Relations `
Operator, next question.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Ben Reitzes, Analyst, Melius Research with Melius Research. Please state your question.
Q - `Ben Reitzes, Analyst, Melius Research `
Yeah. Thanks a lot. A lot of the -- couple of the questions were asked. So I'm going to ask about
Infrastructure, and I also wanted to congratulate you guys your mix shift towards Software is really
resonating. But I'm going to ask about Infrastructure and two aspects, one is tied to it within
Software is TPP. It's super profitable and growing 11%. Just I wanted to see where that fit in, in
terms of your guidance for the year and how sustainable that is. And I think that the AI assistant is
having a big impact on that and so changing the way we may be thinking on that.
And then with regard to Infrastructure, which is a little bit tied to that segment, maybe I'm wrong.
In terms of the mainframe and the delta in growth, if you could just be a little more prescriptive
there and talk about why you have confidence that this will be a well-received cycle. Really
appreciate it. Thank you.
A - `James J. Kavanaugh, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Okay. Thanks, Ben. This is Jim. I'll take this. First of all, thank you for the compliments. Team has
worked extremely hard. We laid out a very ambitious three-year roadmap a few years ago when
we spun off Kyndryl to reposition IBM. And as we talked about in prepared remarks, team has
executed and met or exceeded every single one of those targets that we put out to the Street.
So a lot of hard work here, but the beauty is we got a lot more to go, which we're extremely
excited about, and we'll talk about that next week at Investor Day.
But let's talk about TPP. First of all, you can't talk about TPP to the heart of your question without
talking about the absolute tremendous execution of what's been happening with our mainframe
cycle. This has been one of the longest programs and most consistent in terms of revenue
growth that we've ever seen. And I think it's an instantiation of the value of our enduring platform
in a hybrid cloud and AI area -- era overall. 120% plus prior program, 70% of the clients on
mainframe are growing MIPS. That is a very different profile than where we were 10 years ago.
And the installed MIPS are up 3x over the last few cycles.
Now why is that important? We run mainframe, yes, mission-critical workloads for, what, 97% of
the mission-critical transactional processing around all of -- many of the different industries,
banking, retail, airlines, you name it, but we run it as a stack economic platform play. TP is the
mission-critical software on top of that. It's a key growth contributor capitalizing on those
mainframe stack economics, high source of revenue, high source of profit to fuel investment
flexibility of us continuing this engine of innovation and software. And it also provides a solid
incumbency base for the multiplier effect.We grew our Transaction Processing 10% in 2024, exiting at 11%. The underlying dynamics of that,
I would say about 4 points of that growth is due to the capitalization of the underlying workloads
that are driving mainframe. About 3 points of that is the investment in the new innovation that
we've been bringing to the mainframe platform, call that watson Code Assistant for Z and how
we're monetizing value of GenAI and then about 3 points of that is back to historical price
optimization.
If you look at 2025, our guidance, where we called software continuing to accelerate,
approaching double-digit, I would say prudently right now between Arvind and I, a consistent mid-
single-digit growth in TP, and we'll see how that plays out with the new cycle of mainframe in '25.
A - `Olympia McNerney, Global Head, Investor Relations `
Operator, let's take the next question.
Operator
Your next question comes from Brent Thill with Jefferies. Please state your question.
Q - `Bo Yin, Analyst, Jefferies `
Thanks. This is Bo on for Brent. Arvind, it would be great to get your view of the business climate
more specifically on the Software side, but also more generally across business segments. What
are you hearing from customers and how are they thinking about their software budgets in 2025?
A - `Arvind Krishna, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks. Look, I've been quite public and quite vocal around this topic. So let's acknowledge many
of the things that occupy media headlines and then as a consequence, they do occupy business
leaders' heads. Geopolitical tensions may be on a better track right now, but certainly not solved.
Interest rates, inflation, demographics, lack of skilled labor, supply chain, I think these issues all
carry over into 2025.
That said, and I did spend last week in Davos where you get to meet a few hundred of your
colleagues from around the world. I would tell you there is more optimism in the business climate
and there is more optimism on the growth that is possible in '25 compared to '24. And we know
all the reasons for that. Is it pro-innovation, is it pro-growth? Is it pro-regulation, reducing friction?
All those things I believe are going to result in a better environment in 2025.
That then translates into how our company is going to grow. To a person, everybody believes
technology is now essential for helping them grow. How can you service customers better? How
can you market better? How can you reach people more? How can you get things done in
minutes instead of hours? So software is the basis for all of those capabilities.
I think to a person, the budget that they will touch last, if there is ever an issue, is their software
budget. So that is what is giving us confidence also, as Jim talked about approaching double-
digits in Software is that software is essential to how people are going to achieve their business
goals. And if you can get ahead in this year, it will probably keep you ahead. So it becomes kind of
a gift that keeps repeating for our clients.
A - `Olympia McNerney, Global Head, Investor Relations `
Operator, let's take the next question.Operator
Your next question comes from `Erik Woodring, Analyst, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Please state your question.
Q - `Erik Woodring, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Hey, guys, thank you so much for taking my questions, and congrats on the really strong free cash
flow performance and guide. One clarification quickly was just -- Jim, just want to make sure when
we think about the 2025 outlook, is that inclusive or excluding HashiCorp? And then my broader
question again for you, Jim, is just if you could walk through and quantify a bit more detail some
of the free cash flow puts and takes as we go into 2025, just between the cash taxes, the CapEx,
the EBITDA growth, any more detail would be super helpful just as we think about our model.
Thanks so much.
A - `James J. Kavanaugh, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Erik. And again, thanks for the compliments to the team here collectively around the
world. It means a lot. Yeah, short answer on Hashi, as always, we guide all in. So we fully expect to
close the Hashi transaction in a relatively soon period of time as we saw in the K that was issued
by HashiCorp overall. We fully expect that in this new administration environment. So all in,
revenue growth, profit margin guidance that we gave and free cash flow, which, by the way, is
growing faster than revenue.
When you take a look underneath, we're extremely pleased on how we finished the last couple
of years overall, highest free cash flow margin in the history of our great company for 115 years.
And oh, by the way, we exited 2024 with a free cash flow run rate above our mid-term model of
what we laid out three years ago, consistently growing free cash flow well in excess of revenue
overall. So that's what gives us the confidence and the conviction that all of the tough work on our
portfolio optimization that has shifted much more to a software-centric-led hybrid cloud platform
company, the productivity, which, by the way, executing north of $3.5 billion exit run rate, we got
out in front of that. I would call that discipline. I would call that execution of a company gives us
the conviction and confidence in our guide in 2025 that takes into account that dilution effect.
Hashi, in and of itself, is probably about a point of revenue growth to IBM in the year and it's
probably many of you have done the math, $300 million, $0.30 give or take of dilution. By the
way, still a very attractive financial model coupled with the strategic fit and synergy because we
do believe adjusted EBITDA, we're well on our path of a -- within 12 months accretive and free
cash flow within two years accretive overall, if you've been following Harshi's results. But the
underlying dynamics of our free cash flow drive, over 100% of it's going to be delivered by high-
quality sustainable adjusted EBITDA growth. That is driving this company to a sustainable durable
mid-single-digit growth, now 5-plus-percent. The underlying operating leverage we continue to
generate in this business will drive double-digit adjusted EBITDA growth in 2025. That -- just to
put some dollar amounts around it, that's probably over $1.5 billion in and of itself.
Now mitigating some of that, one, we are going to continue to invest in this business and that
CapEx number is going to go up a couple of hundred million dollars as we invest in our Software,
our GenAI, our next-generation mainframe, et cetera, quantum, by the way, we continue to invest
in. Two, with that incremental profit dollar, we're going to pay more cash tax. That's a couple of
hundred million more there. And three, to the heart of your question, the net interest opportunity
loss overall will probably be another a couple of hundred million dollars overall. So when you put
those pieces together, the way I would kind of qualify it, high quality, sustainable free cash flow
generation engine that's going to deliver faster in revenue growth.A - `Olympia McNerney, Global Head, Investor Relations `
Operator, next question please. Operator, can we have the next question? Operator, can we
take the next question? Operator, can we have the next question, please? Brian Essex, can you
ask your question, please? All right, just please bear with us. We're having an issue with our
operator. We'll be back in a minute. All right. Apologies. We're having a technical issue with our
operator. So apologies that we can't finish our Q&A. We look forward to taking more questions-
and-answers at our upcoming Investor Day on February 4th. Let me turn it to Arvind for closing.
A - `Arvind Krishna, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Olympia. Look, we do apologize from all of us. We are looking forward to your questions,
but we will get multiple hours with the team, as Olympia said, on February the 4th. So I do hope
that those of you who couldn't get your questions in will come that day and ask your questions.
Look, just to wrap up, as we have wrapped on our midterm model, and Jim explained some of
this, we executed on our strategy to deliver sustained revenue growth and cash. The changes we
have made to our business over the last couple of years and our performance reinforced my
confidence in this next chapter of our growth. I look forward to continuing this dialogue and
through the year.