Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Non-GAAP Financial Measures ”. Whilst broadening our product portfolio to target a larger customer base, we continue to pursue a low volume production strategy in order to maintain a reputation for exclusivity and scarcity among purchasers of our cars and we carefully manage our production volumes and delivery waiting lists to promote this reputation. We divide our regional markets into (i) EMEA, (ii) Americas, (iii) Mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan, and (iv) Rest of APAC, which represented respectively 52.8 percent, 25.5 percent, 5.0 percent and 16.7 percent of units shipped in 2020. The geographical distribution of shipments in 2020 reflects deliberate allocations driven by the phase-in pace of individual models. Shipments in 2020 decreased as a result of the seven-week production suspension in the first half of 2020 and the temporary closure of certain dealerships caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, with a partial recovery of production and shipments in the second half of the year. We focus our marketing and promotion efforts in the investments we make in our racing activities and in particular, Scuderia Ferrari’s participation in the Formula 1 World Championship, which is the pinnacle of motorsport and is one of the most watched annual sports series in the world, with approximately 433 million unique viewers in 2020 and an average total audience for a Grand Prix weekend of 87.4 million. ( Source: Formula 1 Press Office ). Although our most recent Formula 1 world title was in 2008, we continuously enhance our focus on Formula 1 activities with the goal of improving racing results and restoring our historical position as the premier racing team in Formula 1. We believe that these activities support the strength and awareness of our brand among motor enthusiasts, clients and the general public. We license the Ferrari brand to a selected number of producers and retailers of luxury and lifestyle goods. In addition, we design, source and sell Ferrari-branded products through a network of 18 Ferrari-owned stores and 18 franchised stores (including 14 Ferrari Store Junior), as well as on our website. As one of the world’s most recognized premium luxury brands, we believe we are well positioned to selectively expand the presence of the Ferrari brand in attractive and growing lifestyle categories consistent with our image, including sportswear, watches, accessories, consumer electronics and theme parks which, we believe, enhance the brand experience of our loyal clients and Ferrari enthusiasts. 28 We will continue focusing our efforts on protecting and enhancing the value of our brand to preserve our strong financial profile and participate in the growth of the premium luxury market. We intend to selectively pursue controlled and profitable growth in existing and emerging markets while expanding the Ferrari brand to carefully selected lifestyle categories. Industry Overview Within the luxury goods market, we define our target market for luxury performance cars as two-door cars powered by engines producing more than 500 hp and selling at a retail price in excess of Euro 150,000 (including VAT). The luxury performance car market historically has followed relatively closely growth patterns in the broader luxury market. The luxury performance car market is generally affected by global macroeconomic conditions and, although we and certain other manufacturers have proven relatively resilient, general downturns can have a disproportionate impact on sales of luxury goods in light of the discretionary nature of consumer spending in this market. Furthermore, because of the emotional nature of the purchasing decision, economic confidence and factors such as expectations regarding future income streams as well as the social acceptability of luxury goods may impact sales. Following the sharp recession of 2008-2009, the luxury performance car market has been resilient to further economic downturns and stagnation in the broader economy, also a result of the increase of new product launches. A sustained period of wealth creation in several Asian countries and, to a lesser extent, in the Americas, has led to an expanding population of potential consumers of luxury goods. Developing consumer preferences in the Asian markets, where the newly affluent are increasingly embracing western brands of luxury products, have also led to higher demand for cars in our segment, which are all produced by established European manufacturers. In turn, the changing demographic of customers and potential customers is driving an evolution towards luxury performance cars more suited to an urban, daily use. Additionally, the growing appetite of younger affluent purchasers for luxury performance cars has led to new entrants, which in turn has resulted in higher sales overall in the market. In 2020, the luxury performance car market has been dealt with a new challenge arising from the COVID-19 pandemic. Compared to the 2008-2009 recession, characterized by the collapse of the financial markets and the drop in global demand for luxury vehicles, the 2020 shock presents a sudden collapse on both the demand and supply side, caused by the shutdown of production plants as a necessary measure to contain the spread of the COVID-19 first-wave. These extreme measures, which were enacted worldwide, led to a global decline in sales volumes. Nevertheless, Ferrari and most of its main competitors have launched key new products, demonstrating their resilient commitment to face this period of uncertainty. Unlike in other segments of the broader luxury market, however, in the luxury performance car market, a significant portion of demand is driven by new product launches. The market share of individual producers fluctuates over time reflecting the timing of product launches. New launches tend to drive sales volumes even in difficult market environments because the novelty, exclusivity and excitement of a new product is capable of creating and capturing its own demand from clients. Growing environmental concerns are leading to the implementation of increasingly stringent emissions regulations and an increase in demand for both hybrid and electric vehicles. Cost and limited charging infrastructure are currently limiting factors in the demand for electric vehicles, but advancements in battery technology in coming years are expected to boost sales of hybrid and electric high performance luxury vehicles, although not necessarily at the same pace compared to mass market vehicles. The ability to combine driving experience with hybrid and electric technology will be key for the commercial success of high performance luxury vehicles. As shown in the chart below, which presents the change in Ferrari volumes compared to the change in volumes of the luxury performance car industry over the period from 2004 to 2020 (starting from a base case of 100 in 2004), our volumes in recent years have proven less volatile than our competitors’. We believe this is due to our strategy of maintaining low volumes compared to demand, as well as the higher number of models in our range and our more frequent product launches compared to our competitors. 29 • Ferrari and Luxury Performance Car Industry data are updated to December 31, 2020. • Data for the Luxury Performance Car Industry include all two door GT and sports cars with power above 500hp, and retail price above Euro 150,000 (including VAT) sold by Aston Martin, Audi, Bentley, BMW, Ferrari, Ford, Honda/Acura, Lamborghini, McLaren, Mercedes Benz, Polestar, Porsche and Rolls-Royce. • Ferrari data based on internal information for the 22 top countries (excluding Middle East countries) for Ferrari annual registrations and sales (which accounted for approximately 87 percent of the total Ferrari shipments in 2020). Annual registrations and sales for the top 22 countries (excluding Middle East countries) for Ferrari increased from 3,454 in 2004 to 7,601 in 2020, representing cumulative growth of approximately 120 percent or a compound annual growth rate of 5.1 percent. • Data for the Luxury Performance Car Industry based on units registered (in Brazil, Japan, Taiwan, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Switzerland, Italy, Poland, Spain, Sweden, Netherlands, Belgium and Austria) or sold (in USA, South Korea, Mainland China, Russia, Australia, New Zealand, Singapore and Indonesia). Source: USA: US Maker Data Club, Brazil-JATO; Austria-OSZ; Belgium-FEBIAC; France-SIV; Germany-KBA; UK-SMMT; Italy-UNRAE; Netherlands-VWE; Poland-CEPiK; Spain-TRAFICO; Sweden-BranschData; Switzerland-ASTRA; Mainland China-China Automobile Industry Association-DataClub; Russia-AEBRUS; Taiwan-Ministry of Transportation and Communications; Australia-VFACTS-S; Japan-JAIA; Indonesia-GAIKINDO; New Zealand-VFACTS; Singapore-LTA, MTA (Land Transport Authority, Motor Trader Associations); South Korea-KAIDA. Units registered for the Luxury Performance Car Industry increased from 22,903 in 2004 to 30,236 in 2020, representing cumulative growth of approximately 32 percent or a compound annual growth rate of 1.8 percent. In 2020, Ferrari volumes in the largest 22 markets decreased compared to 2019, primarily due to the production suspension resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. In 2020, we increased our market share in the luxury performance car market to 25 percent (compared to 23 percent in 2019), with 31 percent of market share in the sports car segment (compared to 25 percent in 2019) and 17 percent of market share in the GT segment (compared to 19 percent in 2019). 30 The chart below sets forth our market shares in 2020 based on volumes in our largest 22 markets by geographical area. • Ferrari and Luxury Performance Car Industry data updated to December 31, 2020. • Data for the Luxury Performance Car Industry include all two door GT and sports cars with power above 500hp, and retail price above Euro 150,000 (including VAT) sold by Aston Martin, Audi, Bentley, BMW, Ferrari, Ford, Lamborghini, McLaren, Mercedes Benz, Polestar, Porsche and Rolls-Royce. • Ferrari data based on internal information for the 22 top countries (excluding Middle East countries) for Ferrari annual registrations and sales (which accounted for approximately 87 percent of the total Ferrari shipments in 2020). • Data for the Luxury Performance Car Industry based on units registered (Brazil, Japan, Taiwan, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Switzerland, Italy, Poland, Spain, Sweden, Netherlands, Belgium and Austria) or sold (in USA, South Korea, Mainland China, Russia, Australia, New Zealand, Singapore and Indonesia). Source: USA: US Maker Data Club, Brazil-JATO; Austria-OSZ; Belgium-FEBIAC; France-SIV; Germany-KBA; UK-SMMT; Italy-UNRAE; Netherlands-VWE; Poland-CEPiK; Spain-TRAFICO; Sweden-BranschData; Switzerland-ASTRA; Mainland China-China Automobile Industry Association-DataClub; Russia-AEBRUS; Taiwan-Ministry of Transportation and Communications; Australia-VFACTS-S; Japan-JAIA; Indonesia-GAIKINDO; New Zealand-VFACTS; Singapore-LTA, MTA (Land Transport Authority, Motor Trader Associations); South Korea-KAIDA. • Ferrari is the market leader in several countries, including France, Italy, Switzerland, United Kingdom, USA, Australia, Japan and South Korea, among others. While we monitor our market share as an indicator of our brand appeal, we do not regard market share in the luxury performance market as particularly relevant as compared to other segments of the automotive industry. We are not focused on market share as a performance metric. Instead, we deliberately manage our supply relative to demand, to defend and promote our brand exclusivity and premium pricing. Competition Competition in the luxury performance car market is concentrated in a fairly small number of producers, including both large automotive companies that own luxury brands as well as small producers exclusively focused on luxury cars, like us. The luxury performance car market includes sports cars and GT cars. Our sports car models are the Ferrari F8 Tributo, the Ferrari F8 Spider, the 812 Superfast, the 812 GTS and our first series production Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicle (PHEV) models, the SF90 Stradale and the SF90 Spider. Our principal competitors are Lamborghini, McLaren, Ford, Honda, Porsche, Mercedes, Aston Martin and Audi. Our GT range models encompass the Ferrari Roma and the most-recent Ferrari Portofino M, while our main competitors are Rolls-Royce, Bentley, Aston Martin and Mercedes. In recent years, the market has shifted somewhat with an increased focus on the GT cars segment and the lower priced range of the sports car market, with larger automotive groups expanding their offering of premium cars to enter the luxury performance car market. Competition in the luxury performance car market is driven by the strength of the brand and the appeal of the products in terms of performance, styling, novelty and innovation as well as on the manufacturers’ ability to renew its product offerings regularly in order to continue to stimulate customer demand. 31 Competition among similarly positioned luxury performance cars is also driven by price and total cost of ownership. Resilience of the car value after a period of ownership is an important competitive dimension among similarly positioned luxury cars, as a higher resilience decreases the total cost of ownership and promotes repeat purchases: we believe this is a strong competitive advantage of Ferrari cars. Sports and GT Range, Special Series and Icona: Ferrari Line-Up Strategic Pillars Our product offering as of the date of this report comprises four main strategic pillars: the sports range, the GT range, special series and Icona. Our current product range includes six sports cars, two GT cars as well as our Icona cars, introduced in September 2018 with the Ferrari Monza SP1 and SP2. In 2020 we completed shipments of the GTC4Lusso and the GTC4Lusso T, as well as our most recent special series models, the Ferrari 488 Pista and the Ferrari 488 Pista Spider. We target end clients seeking high performance cars with distinctive design and state-of-the-art technology. Our broad model range is designed to fulfill the strategy of “Different Ferrari for different Ferraristi, different Ferrari for different moments”, which means being able to offer a highly differentiated product line-up that can meet the varying needs of new customer segments (in terms of sportiness, comfort, on-board space, design) and that can allow our existing clients to use a Ferrari in every moment of their lives. Our diversified product offering includes different architectures (such as front-engine and mid-rear engine), engine sizes (V8 and V12), technologies (atmospheric, turbo-charged, hybrid, electric), body styles (such as coupes and spiders), and seats (2 seaters, 2+2 seaters and 4 seaters). We are also actively engaged in after sales activities driven, among other things, by the objective of preserving and extending the market value of the cars we sell. We believe our cars’ performance in terms of value preservation after a period of ownership significantly exceeds that of any other brand in the luxury car segment. High residual value is important to the primary market because clients, when purchasing our cars, take into account the expected resale value of the car in assessing the overall cost of ownership. Furthermore, a higher residual value potentially lowers the cost for the owner to switch to a new model thereby supporting client loyalty and promoting repeat purchases. 32 The charts below set forth the percentage of our unit shipments (excluding the XX Programme, racing cars, one-off and pre-owned cars) for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 by pillar: _____________________ (*)   Includes shipments of the LaFerrari and LaFerrari Aperta. (**) Shipments of Icona cars commenced in 2019, and contributed to less than 1 percent of our shipments for that year. 33 The table and charts below set forth our unit shipments (1) for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, by geographic market: (Number of cars and % of total cars) For the years ended December 31, 2020 % 2019 % 2018 % EMEA Germany 995 10.9 % 967 9.5 % 803 8.7 % UK 971 10.6 % 1,120 11.1 % 981 10.6 % Italy 574 6.3 % 559 5.5 % 479 5.2 % Switzerland 456 5.0 % 454 4.5 % 380 4.1 % France 463 5.1 % 452 4.5 % 399 4.3 % Middle East (2) 304 3.3 % 309 3.1 % 326 3.5 % Other EMEA (3) 1,055 11.6 % 1,034 10.1 % 859 9.3 % Total EMEA 4,818 52.8 % 4,895 48.3 % 4,227 45.7 % Americas (4) 2,325 25.5 % 2,900 28.6 % 3,000 32.4 % Mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan 456 5.0 % 836 8.3 % 695 7.5 % Rest of APAC (5) 1,520 16.7 % 1,500 14.8 % 1,329 14.4 % Total 9,119 100.0 % 10,131 100.0 % 9,251 100.0 % __________________________ (1) Excluding the XX Programme, racing cars,, one-off and pre-owned cars. (2) Middle East mainly includes the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Lebanon, Qatar, Oman and Kuwait. (3) Other EMEA includes Africa and the other European markets not separately identified. (4) Americas includes the United States of America, Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean and Central and South America. (5) Rest of APAC mainly includes Japan, Australia, Singapore, Indonesia, South Korea, Thailand and Malaysia. Sports Range Our sports cars are characterized by compact bodies, a design guided by performance and aerodynamics, and often benefit from technologies initially developed for our Formula 1 single-seaters. They favor performance over comfort, seeking to provide a driver with an immediate response and superior handling, leveraging state-of-the-art vehicle dynamics components and controls. In our sports car class, we offer six models: the SF90 Stradale and SF90 Spider, our first series production cars which feature PHEV technology that combines a V8 engine (780 hp) with three electric motors allowing the car to reach 1,000 hp; the Ferrari F8 Tributo and the Ferrari F8 Spider, equipped with a mid-rear V8 engine (720 hp), 4 time winner of the engine of the year award; the 812 Superfast and the 812 GTS, equipped with a front V12 engine (800 hp). GT Range Our GT cars, while maintaining the performance expected of a Ferrari, are characterized by more refined interiors with a higher focus on comfort and on-board life quality. In our GT class, we offer two models equipped with our V8 engine, the Ferrari Roma (620 hp) and the Ferrari Portofino M (620 hp). 34 The following picture depicts the four dimensions of our customer value proposition for our sports and GT range models: Special Series From time to time, we also design, engineer and produce special series cars which can be limited in time or volume and are usually based on our range sports models but introduce novel product concepts. These cars are characterized by significant modifications designed to enhance performance and driving emotions. Our special series cars are particularly targeted to collectors and, from a commercial and product development standpoint, they facilitate the transition from existing to new range models. Special series cars whose shipments were completed at the end of 2020 were the Ferrari 488 Pista, powered by a 720 hp V8 engine, and its retractable hard top version, the Ferrari 488 Pista Spider (720 hp). Icona In September 2018, we introduced a new pillar of our product portfolio: the Icona, a unique concept that takes inspiration from the iconic cars of our history and reinterprets them in a modern fashion, pairing timeless design with state-of-the-art materials and technology. The first examples of this strictly limited-edition product line-up are the Ferrari Monza SP1 and SP2, which are inspired by the classic collectible barchetta cars, the 750 Monza and 860 Monza. Limited Edition Hypercars and One-Offs In line with our tradition of hypercars starting with the GTO (288 GTO) in 1984 up to the Enzo in 2002 and the LaFerrari Aperta, our latest hypercar launched in 2016, we also produce limited edition hypercars. These are the highest expression of Ferrari road car performance at the time and are often the forerunners of technological innovations for future range models, with innovative features and futuristic design. In order to meet the varying needs of our most loyal and discerning clients, we also produce a very limited number of one-off models. While based on the chassis and equipped with engines of one of the current range models for homologation and registration purposes, these cars reflect the exact exterior and interior design specifications requested by the clients, and are produced as a single, unique car. Some of the most iconic models emerged from our One-Off program include the SP12 EC (inspired by the 512 BB and created in 2011), the F12 TRS (a radical two-seat roadster created on the 35 platform of the F12berlinetta in 2014), the Ferrari SP38 (a superlative mid-rear V8 turbo taking inspiration from the legendary Ferrari F40), the 458MM Speciale (the last mid rear model with a V8 natural aspirated engine in 2016), the Ferrari P80/C, a real track car taking inspiration from past Ferrari Sport Prototipo models, and the Ferrari Omologata, based on the 812 Superfast V12 platform. Personalization Offer All of our models feature highly customizable interior and exterior options, which are included in our personalization catalog. Some of these options include performance contents like carbon fibre parts, carbon fibre wheels, titanium exhaust systems, alternative brake caliper colors, parking cameras, MagnaRide dual mode suspension, various door panel configurations, steering wheel inserts and state-of-the-art custom high fidelity sound systems. Commencing with the SF90 Stradale and the SF90 Spider, we have also introduced the “Assetto Fiorano” configuration, which provides numerous exclusive features for those who seek radical performance and design. With our “Special Equipment” program, we offer clients additional customization choices for their cars. Our specialists are able to guide clients in creating a very customized car through a wide catalog of special items such as different types of rare leathers, custom stitching, special paints, special carbon fiber, and personalized luggage sets designed to match the car’s interior. The “Tailor Made” program provides an additional level of personalization in accordance with the expectations of our clients. A dedicated Ferrari designer assists clients in selecting and applying virtually any specific design element chosen by the client. Our clients benefit from a large selection of finishes and accessories in an array of different materials (ranging from cashmere to denim), treatments and hues. To assist our clients’ choice we also offer three collections inspired by Ferrari’s own tradition: Scuderia (taking its lead from our sporting history), Classica (bringing a modern twist to the styling cues of our signature GT models) and Inedita (showcasing more experimental and innovation-led personalization). The “One-off” program is the maximum level of personalization and exclusivity. See “ —Limited Edition Hypercars and One-Offs ” above for more details. Design Design is a fundamental and distinctive aspect of our products and our brand. Our designers, modelers and engineers work together to create car bodies that incorporate the most innovative aerodynamic solutions in the sleek and powerful lines 36 typical of our cars. The interiors of our cars seek to balance functionality, aesthetics and comfort. Cockpits are designed to maximize the driving experience, tending towards more sporty or more comfortable, depending on the model. The interiors of our vehicles boast elegant and sophisticated trims and details that enhance the ergonomic layout of all main controls, many of which are clustered on the steering wheel. A guiding principle of our design is that each new model represents a clear departure from prior models and introduces new and distinctive aesthetic elements, delivering constant innovation within the furrow of tradition. For the design of our cars we have relied historically on Italian coachbuilders such as Carrozzeria Touring, Vignale, Scaglietti and Pininfarina. These partnerships helped Ferrari in defining its design language at the forefront of design advance. Throughout the years this area of excellence has been recognized repeatedly by a long series of awards being bestowed upon Ferrari cars. In 2010 we established the Ferrari Design Centre, our in-house design department, with the objective of improving control over the entire design process and ensuring long-term continuity of the Ferrari style. The mission of the Ferrari Design Centre is to define and evolve the stylistic direction of the marque, imprinting all new products with a modern stamp, according to a futuristic, uncompromised vision. The name and logo “Ferrari Design” denotes all concepts and works from Ferrari Design Centre (see “ —Intellectual Property ”). Ferrari Design handles all aspects of automotive styling for the Ferrari road cars product range, encompassing the styling of all bodywork, external components and interior trim, applied to series production models for the GT and sports car range special editions, limited editions, Iconas, one-off models, concept cars and some track-only models. Ferrari Design also includes a Color & Trim unit which manages the choice of materials and finishes for both exterior and interior trim and, in addition, is responsible for the Tailor Made program in conjunction with the Product Marketing department. Ferrari Design is also involved in the styling and conceptual definition of Ferrari branded products produced by our licensees (see “ —Brand Activities ”). In 2019, we created the Advanced Design team, a laboratory that aims at defining the brand’s design vision, developing new concepts and formal languages through so far unexplored methods and tools, and trying to achieve simplification and formal purity while staying true to the Ferrari DNA which has characterized its history. Ferrari Design is organized as an integrated automotive design studio, employing a total workforce of approximately 110 people (full-time workers as well as external contractors) including designers, 3D surfacing operators, physical modelers and graphic artists. It operates a modeling studio fully equipped with 5-axis milling machines with the capacity to develop various full-scale models (interior and exterior) in parallel. In September 2018 we opened a new building for the Ferrari Design Centre, which is our first facility fully dedicated to the Ferrari Design. The new building hosts two Ateliers and the Tailor Made department to engage clients with Ferrari’s rich personalization services. The Ferrari Design Centre entirely designed our most recent cars, including the Ferrari Roma, the SF90 Stradale, the Ferrari F8 Tributo and Ferrari F8 Spider, the 812 GTS, the Ferrari Monza SP1 and SP2, the Ferrari Portofino M and the SF90 Spider. During its 11 year history, the Ferrari Design Centre has received many prestigious design awards for the cars it has designed, including the following in the last 2 years: • Ferrari Roma: The Most Beautiful Supercar of the Year — Festival Automobile International, Paris (2020); Red Dot Design Award (2020); Car Design Award (2020); • Ferrari SF90 Stradale: iF Gold Design Award (2020); Red Dot Best of The Best (2020); • Ferrari F8 Tributo: iF Design Award (2020); Red Dot Design Award (2020); • Ferrari One Off P80/C: iF Design Award (2020); • Ferrari Monza SP1: XXVI PREMIO COMPASSO D’ORO • Ferrari Monza SP2: The Most Beautiful Supercar of the Year — Festival Automobile International, Paris (2019); • Ferrari 488 Pista: iF Design Award (2019); • Ferrari SP38: iF Design Award — Ferrari (2019); • Ferrari Portofino: iF Design Award (2019); UIGA — Auto Europa Sportiva (2019); • Ferrari Monza SP1: iF Gold Design Award (2019); Red Dot Best of The Best (2019); Good Design Award (2019); • Ferrari 488 Pista: Red Dot Design Award (2019); • Ferrari SP38: Red Dot Design Award (2019); • SF90 Stradale: 2019 Good Design Award (2019). 37 Product Development Product development and technological innovation Our development efforts take into account the three defining dimensions of Ferrari cars; performance; versatility and comfort; and driving emotions. Performance reflects features such as weight, horsepower, torque, aerodynamic efficiency, acceleration, and maximum speed, which all contribute to determine the lap time on track. We strive to ensure that every Ferrari is the best performing car in its segment. Versatility derives from spaciousness, accessibility and mode of traction, including rear‑wheel‑drive or all‑wheel‑drive and, in future, electric-powered driving. Comfort results from the ease of the riding experience and onboard interface. Regulation will affect development in this area; for example, a prescribed electric range may be required in future to access city centers. Driving emotions is a key differentiator of Ferrari cars. There are three elements to driving emotions: sound, perceived acceleration and responsiveness of the car. Sound is an important part of the experience and very involving for the driver. Perceived acceleration is the driver’s subjective impression of the car acceleration beyond the actual 0-100 or 0-200 km/h performance measured in the car technical specifications. Responsiveness requires that every driver command (steering, gear shifting and braking) leads to a direct and controllable reaction of the car. These three dimensions variably interact in our sports and GT cars. As we work on the future product range, we strive to improve on each of those dimensions, focusing for sports cars on performance and driving emotions, and for GT cars on versatility and comfort on board and fun to drive - driving emotions. Innovation principles We believe there are five key guidelines to innovation at Ferrari: focus on the three key defining dimensions described above; leveraging on Formula 1 know-how; first mover positioning in core areas such as powertrain and aerodynamics; customization of technologies available on the market (such as the turbo technology); and pursuit of synergies (arising from common architectures within our range). In addition to these internally driven factors, regulation is key in determining the direction of innovation. 38 Combustion engines We believe internal combustion engines will remain important in Ferrari’s powertrain mix and therefore we continue to invest in new combustion engine technologies and the development or use of bio-fuels. In 2018 we won the “Engine of the Year” award for the newest edition of our V8 turbocharged engine mounted on the Ferrari 488 Pista. Going forward, Ferrari will have three engine families: we will maintain and develop the V12 naturally‑aspirated engine family, long the pinnacle of Ferrari engines; we have implemented further technological step ups for the V8 family; and we are developing a completely new V6 family based on a specific and innovative architecture. The industry effort to combine greater power outputs with lower emissions and consumption often leads to a higher turbo lag. Through a technological breakthrough, Ferrari has engineered a turbo engine with turbo engine performance but with the response of a naturally‑aspirated engine. For example, compared to Ferrari’s previous line of V8 turbo engines, the specific power output of the Ferrari 488 Pista was increased to 184 horsepower per litre without meaningful turbo lag. In the future, we intend to use hybrid and electric technology, as well as Formula 1 technology, to increase specific power output without turbo lag. We are deploying considerable resources for the development of hybrid and electric powertrains, which will be mounted on an increasingly larger proportion of our car models; this is intended to improve performance and driving experience while also satisfying customer preferences and regulatory requirements regarding emissions. With the SF90 Stradale we developed the first series production car in our range with PHEV technology, which is also featured in the SF90 Spider. Architecture In addition to engines, the other principal technical area we are focusing on is the architecture. Our architecture covers all principal technical specifications of future Ferrari models. We expect that innovation requirements will arise principally from: the evolution of engine families; the level of hybridization and electrification; modes of traction; the number of seats up to a real four-seater; and the body style, which will vary much more significantly than in the past in light of the introduction of the Purosangue. We expect that our core architectures will be the rear‑mid‑engine architecture and the front‑mid‑engine architecture, each comprising several variants. 39 Rear-mid-engine architecture The rear‑mid‑engine architecture is optimal for sports cars thanks to its compact dimensions, low gravity center and favorable mass repartitions. It is designed to integrate multiple power units with a higher specific power output than the Ferrari 488 Pista. In this architecture, combustion engines can be combined with an electric motor to realize hybridization, including a battery to enable electric range. This architecture also allows to install an E-Axle on the front to increase overall power and to have an all-wheel drive powertrain. The first application of this architecture is the SF90 Stradale. In combination, we have developed a new and highly innovative 8-shift double‑clutch transmission gearbox. Hybridization will impact the weight of engines and therefore we will deploy new lightweight technologies to compensate this impact. Package efficiency will also be key to achieve a compact car that reduces weight and inertia. In order to apply the architecture to different powertrains, the wheelbase may vary. The first example of this new architecture is the SF90 Stradale. Front-mid-engine architecture The front‑mid‑engine architecture, also a transaxle powertrain concept, is optimal for our GT cars in terms of dimensions. This architecture is able to accommodate an all‑wheel‑drive powertrain, will allow for hybridization, and will have a flexible wheelbase suited to a variety of engines as well as seat configurations including two‑seaters and four‑seaters. It will be accessible, spacious and comfortable. Key to this architecture will be the new active suspension systems we are developing, with a high range between comfort and sportiness. New-generation human-machine interface Particularly driven by growth in the GT segment, Ferrari has developed the next generation of human‑machine interface (HMI) technologies. Using state‑of‑the‑art technologies we will be guided by the Formula 1 derived concept of “eyes on the street, hands on the steering wheel”, for a focused, safe and enjoyable drive. The new HMI includes several new technologies, including a new head‑up display, a new innovative cluster, a new steering wheel that features new commands and a new infotainment system, as well as tools aimed at positively enhancing the passengers’ experience. The first cars using all or part of these technologies are the SF90 Stradale and the Ferrari Roma. Autonomous driving While we do not intend to develop self-driving cars, we will adopt certain features of autonomous driving technology in response to regulatory developments and customer preferences, especially in the GT segment. For example, in 2018 we launched initial functionalities for Advanced Driving Assistant Systems (ADAS) such as predictive breaking and automatic cruise control on current models, and further innovations will be introduced in future models. Ferrari is carefully monitoring the evolution of autonomous driving technologies, including sensors, new chips and artificial intelligence, and we will select and customize those innovations compatible with the Ferrari experience. These technologies combined with the hybridization and the incoming cybersecurity requirements will also have an important impact on the electronic architecture of our cars and we are presently developing our future electrical and electronic architecture to take into account these requirements. Production and Procurement Production Process Our production facilities are located in Maranello and in Modena, Italy (see “