Item 5. Operating and Financial Review—Non-GAAP Financial Measures. ” We pursue a low volume production strategy whilst broadening our product portfolio to target a larger customer base in order to maintain a reputation of exclusivity and scarcity among purchasers of our cars and carefully manage our production volumes and delivery waiting lists to promote this reputation. We divide our regional markets into EMEA, Americas, China, Hong Kong and Taiwan (on a combined basis) and Rest of APAC, representing respectively 44.5 percent , 33.5 percent , 7.3 percent and 14.7 percent of units shipped in 2017 . We license the Ferrari brand to a selected number of producers and retailers of luxury and lifestyle goods. In addition, we design, source and sell Ferrari-branded products through a network of 18 Ferrari-owned stores and 30 franchised stores (including 8 Ferrari Store Junior), as well as on our website. As one of the world’s most recognized premium luxury brands, we believe we are well positioned to selectively expand the presence of the Ferrari brand in attractive and growing lifestyle categories consistent with our image, including sportswear, watches, accessories, consumer electronics and theme parks which we believe enhance the brand experience of our loyal following of clients and Ferrari enthusiasts. We focus our marketing and promotion efforts in the investments we make in our racing activities, in particular Scuderia Ferrari’s participation in the Formula 1 World Championship, which is one of the most watched annual sports series in the world, with over 350 million television viewers in 2017 (Source: FOM/Kantar Media 2017) . Although our most recent Formula 1 world title was in 2008, we are enhancing our focus on Formula 1 activities with the goal of improving recent racing results and restoring our historical position as the premier racing team in Formula 1. We believe that these activities support the strength and awareness of our brand among motor enthusiasts, clients and the general public. We will continue focusing our efforts on protecting and enhancing the value of our brand to preserve our strong financial profile and participate in the premium luxury market growth. We intend to selectively pursue controlled and profitable growth in existing and emerging markets while expanding the Ferrari brand to carefully selected lifestyle categories. 24 Industry Overview Luxury performance cars share several characteristics with other luxury goods such as quality, aesthetics, rarity, exclusivity and a high degree of non-functional associations all of which leads to significantly higher pricing as compared to mass market goods within the same category. While affected by global macroeconomic conditions, the luxury goods market is also impacted by several more specific factors, such as, in recent years, the significant economic growth and wealth creation in certain emerging economies and rising levels of affluence and demand from the emerging middle and upper classes in Asia and a general trend towards urbanization. Particularly following the 2008-2009 downturn, this has led the global luxury goods market to return to outperform global GDP . Source: Bain & Company Within the luxury goods market, we define our target market for luxury performance cars as two-door cars powered by engines producing more than 500 hp and selling at a retail price in excess of Euro 150,000 (including VAT). The luxury performance car market historically has followed relatively closely growth patterns in the broader luxury market. The luxury performance car market is generally affected by global macroeconomic conditions and, although we and certain other manufacturers have proven relatively resilient, general downturns can have a disproportionate impact on sales of luxury goods in light of the discretionary nature of consumer spending in this market. Furthermore, because of the emotional nature of the purchasing decision, economic confidence and factors such as expectations regarding future income streams as well as the social acceptability of luxury goods may impact sales. Following the sharp recession of 2008-2009, the luxury performance car market has been resilient to further economic downturns and stagnation in the broader economy, also a result of the increase of new product launches. A sustained period of wealth creation in several Asian countries and, to a lesser extent, in the Americas, has led to an expanding population of potential consumers of luxury goods. Developing consumer preferences in the Asian markets, where the newly affluent are increasingly embracing western brands of luxury products, have also led to higher demand for cars in our segment, which are all produced by established European manufacturers. Additionally, the growing appetite of younger affluent purchasers for luxury performance cars has led to new entrants, which in turn has resulted in higher sales overall in the market. 25 Unlike in other segments of the broader luxury market, however, in the luxury performance car market, a significant portion of demand is driven by new product launches. The market share of individual producers fluctuates over time reflecting the timing of product launches. New launches tend to drive sales volumes even in difficult market environments because the novelty, exclusivity and excitement of a new product is capable of creating and capturing its own demand from clients. • Data for the Luxury Performance Car Industry include all two door GT and Sports Cars with power above 500hp, and retail price above Euro 150,000 (including VAT) sold by Aston Martin, Audi, Bentley, Ferrari, Ford, Honda/Acura, Lamborghini, McLaren, Mercedes Benz, Porsche and Rolls-Royce. • Ferrari data based on the 22 top countries (excluding Middle East countries) for Ferrari annual registrations and sales (which accounted for approximately 85% of the total Ferrari shipments in 2017). • Data for the Luxury Performance Car Industry based on units registered (in Brazil, Japan, Taiwan, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Switzerland, Italy, Spain, Sweden, Netherlands, Belgium and Austria) or sold (in USA, South Korea, Thailand, China, Hong Kong, Australia, New Zealand, Singapore and Indonesia). Source: USA: US Maker Data Club, Brazil-JATO; Austria-OSZ; Belgium-FEBIAC; France-SIV; Germany-KBA; UK-SMMT; Italy-UNRAE; Netherlands- VWE; Spain- TRAFICO; Sweden-BranschData; Switzerland-ASTRA; China-China Automobile Industry Association-DataClub; Hong Kong-Hong Kong Motor Trader Association; Taiwan-Ministry of Transportation and Communications; Australia-VFACTS-S; Japan-JAIA; Indonesia-GAIKINDO; New Zealand-VFACTS; Singapore-LTA, MTA (Land Transport Authority, Motor Trader Associations); South Korea-KAIDA; Thailand -Department of Land Transportation The luxury performance car market has now exceeded pre-crisis levels. As shown in the chart above, our volumes in recent years have proven less volatile than our competitors. We believe this is due to our strategy of maintaining low volumes compared to demand, as well as the higher number of models in our range and our more frequent product launches compared to our competitors. 26 In 2017, our volumes in the largest 22 markets were substantially in line with 2016, primarily driven by contribution from our range models. We had a market share of 20 percent in the luxury performance car market; with a 22 percent of market share in the sports car segment and 16 percent of market share in the GT segment. The chart below sets forth our market shares in 2017 in our largest 22 markets by geographical area. • Data for the Luxury Performance Car Industry include all two door GT and sports cars with power above 500hp, and retail price above Euro 150,000 (including VAT) sold by Aston Martin, Audi, Bentley, Ferrari, Ford, Lamborghini, McLaren, Mercedes Benz, Porsche and Rolls-Royce. • Ferrari data based on the 22 top countries (excluding Middle East countries) for Ferrari annual registrations and sales (which accounted for approximately 85% of the total Ferrari shipments in 2017). • Data for the Luxury Performance Car Industry based on units registered (Brazil, Japan, Taiwan, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Switzerland, Italy, Spain, Sweden, Netherlands, Belgium and Austria) or sold (in USA, South Korea, Thailand, China, Hong Kong, Australia, New Zealand, Singapore and Indonesia). Source: USA: US Maker Data Club, Brazil-JATO; Austria-OSZ; Belgium-FEBIAC; France-SIV; Germany-KBA; UK-SMMT; Italy-UNRAE; Netherlands- VWE; Spain- TRAFICO; Sweden-BranschData; Switzerland-ASTRA; China-China Automobile Industry Association-DataClub; Hong Kong-Hong Kong Motor Trader Association; Taiwan-Ministry of Transportation and Communications; Australia-VFACTS-S; Japan-JAIA; Indonesia-GAIKINDO; New Zealand-VFACTS; Singapore-LTA, MTA (Land Transport Authority, Motor Trader Associations); South Korea-KAIDA; Thailand -Department of Land Transportation. While we monitor our market share as an indicator of our brand appeal, we do not regard market share in the luxury performance market as particularly relevant as compared to other segments of the automotive industry. We are not focused on market share as a performance metric. Instead, we deliberately manage our supply relative to demand, to defend and promote our brand exclusivity and premium pricing. In recent years, we have produced a substantially constant number of cars per year in furtherance of that strategy. Competition Competition in the luxury performance car market is concentrated in a fairly small number of producers, including both large automotive companies as well as small producers exclusively focused on luxury cars, like us. The luxury performance car market includes a sports car segment and a GT segment. In the sports car segment our products are the 488 GTB, 488 Spider, 812 Superfast and our latest special series, the F12tdf, and our principal competitors are Lamborghini (Huracán 4WD/2WD, Aventador, Aventador SV, in each case Coupé and Spider, and Huracán Performante), McLaren (570S/GT, 540C, 720S Coupé and Spider), Ford (GT), Honda (NSX), Porsche (911 Turbo, Turbo S, both Coupé and Spider), Mercedes (SL 63/65 AMG), Aston Martin (Vanquish and V12 Vantage/S, both Coupé and Spider), Audi (R8 V10 Coupé and Spider, R8V10 Plus and R8V10 RWS). In the GT segment our products are the California T, the Ferrari Portofino (the successor of the California T which is being phased out), the GTC4Lusso and the GTC4Lusso T models and our principal competitors are Rolls-Royce (Wraith and Dawn), Bentley (Continental GT/GTC, V12 and V8, Speed and S version, GT3-R and Supersports), Aston Martin (DB11 Coupé and Spider, V8 and V12) and Mercedes (S Coupé and Convertible 63/65 AMG, AMG ATC Coupé and Spider and AMG GTR). 27 In recent years, the market has shifted somewhat with an increased focus on the GT segment and the lower priced range of the sports car market, with larger automotive groups expanding their offering of premium cars to enter the luxury performance car market. Competition in the luxury performance car market is driven by the strength of the brand and the appeal of the products in terms of performance, styling, novelty and innovation as well as on the manufacturers’ ability to renew its product offerings regularly in order to continue to stimulate customer demand. Larger automotive groups with a product offering in the luxury performance car market typically have larger financial resources compared to the small luxury car producers and therefore may have more flexibility in planning for product launches and capital spending over time. Competition among similarly positioned luxury performance cars is also driven by price and total cost of ownership. We believe that the resilience of the value of our cars after a period of ownership is an important competitive factor because it decreases the total cost of ownership for our clients and promotes repeat purchases. Sports and GT Cars Our current product range includes six range models and one special series, equipped with either eight or twelve cylinder engines and divided into two classes: Sports cars and GT cars. We target end clients seeking high performance cars with distinctive design and state of the art technology. Within these parameters, we offer different models to meet our clients’ varying needs and to differentiate our line-up from that of other manufacturers, ranging from the exceptional performance of our Sports cars to the luxury and drivability of our GT cars. Our diversified product offering includes different architectures (such as front-engine and mid-rear engine), engine sizes (V8 and V12), body styles (such as coupes and spiders), and seating (2 seaters, 2+2 seaters and 4 seaters). Our sports cars are characterized by compact bodies, a design guided by performance and aerodynamics, and often benefit from technologies initially developed for our Formula 1 single-seaters. They favor performance over comfort, seeking to provide a driver with an immediate response and superior handling, leveraging state of the art vehicle dynamics components and controls. In our sports car class, we offer three models: two of which are equipped with mid-rear V8 engines, namely the 488 GTB (with 670 hp) and the 488 Spider (with 670 hp); and one equipped with a front V12 engine, the 812 Superfast (with 800 hp). Our GT cars, while maintaining the performance expected of a Ferrari, are characterized by more refined interiors with a higher focus on comfort and quality of life on-board. In our GT class, we offer two models equipped with our V8 engine, the California T (with 560 hp) and the GTC4Lusso T (with 610 hp), the first Ferrari 4 seater equipped with a V8 turbo engine. We also offer one GT model equipped with our V12 engine, the GTC4Lusso (with 690 hp), our sport-luxury 4 seater and 4 wheel drive. The Ferrari Portofino (with 600 hp), the replacement of the California T, was unveiled in September 2017 and shipments are expected to begin in the second quarter of 2018. We also from time to time design, engineer and produce special series cars which are based on our range models but introduce novel product concepts. These cars are characterized by significant hardware and software mechanical modifications designed to enhance performance and drivability. Our special series cars are particularly targeted to collectors and, from a commercial and product development standpoint, they facilitate the transition from existing to new range models. Our current special series model is the F12tdf, equipped with a V12 engine with 780 hp. In addition to our range models and special series described above, we also continue the longstanding Ferrari tradition of limited edition supercars, very limited series ( fuori serie ) and one-off cars. Our limited edition supercars, which we typically launch in seven to 10 year intervals, are the highest expression of Ferrari performance and are often the forerunners of technological innovations for the future range models, with innovative features and futuristic design. At the Mondial de l’Automobile 2016 show in Paris we introduced an open top version of the LaFerrari, LaFerrari Aperta, to celebrate the 70 th anniversary of Ferrari in 2017 . Our fuori serie cars can be based on range or special series mechanical components, but are characterized by important exterior body modifications resulting in an innovative product by concept or design. These exclusive cars are linked to specific events or celebrations, such as the F60 America (celebrating our 60 th anniversary of sales in the United States) and the J50 (celebrating our 50 th anniversary of sales in Japan). Our one-off cars are designed to meet the varying needs of our most loyal and discerning clients. They reflect the exact design and specifications required by our clients and are produced as a single, unique vehicle. (See “ -Limited Edition Supercars, Fuori Serie and One-Offs ”). 28 The table below sets forth our unit shipments for the years ended December 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , by geographic market: (Number of cars and % of total cars) For the years ended December 31, 2017 % 2016 % 2015 % EMEA UK 843 10.0 % 769 9.6 % 740 9.7 % Germany 710 8.5 % 675 8.4 % 595 7.8 % Italy 417 5.0 % 364 4.5 % 285 3.7 % France 346 4.1 % 306 3.8 % 274 3.6 % Switzerland 339 4.0 % 333 4.2 % 340 4.4 % Middle East (1) 331 3.9 % 439 5.5 % 456 5.9 % Other EMEA (2) 751 9.0 % 724 9.1 % 661 8.6 % Total EMEA 3,737 44.5 % 3,610 45.1 % 3,351 43.7 % Americas (3) 2,811 33.5 % 2,687 33.5 % 2,640 34.4 % China, Hong Kong and Taiwan (on a combined basis) 617 7.3 % 619 7.7 % 610 8.0 % Rest of APAC (4) 1,233 14.7 % 1,098 13.7 % 1,063 13.9 % Total 8,398 100.0 % 8,014 100.0 % 7,664 100.0 % __________________________ (1) Middle East includes the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Lebanon, Qatar, Oman and Kuwait. (2) Rest of EMEA includes Africa and the other European markets not separately identified. (3) Americas includes the United States of America, Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean and Central and South America. (4) Rest of APAC mainly includes Japan, Australia, Singapore, Indonesia and South Korea. The table below sets forth our unit shipments for the years ended December 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , with a breakdown of Sports and GT cars: (Number of cars) For the years ended December 31, 2017 2016 2015 Sports V8 (1) 4,845 4,221 3,534 V12 (2) 998 1,152 1,169 Total Sports 5,843 5,373 4,703 GT V8 1,619 2,247 2,638 V12 936 394 323 Total GT 2,555 2,641 2,961 Total 8,398 8,014 7,664 ______________________________ (1) Includes 458 Speciale and 458 Speciale A for 2015. (2) Includes the F12berlinetta for all periods presented, the LaFerrari until 2016, and from the third quarter of 2016 the LaFerrari Aperta. We are also actively engaged in after sales activities driven, among other things, by the objective of preserving and extending the market value of the cars we sell. We believe our cars’ performance in terms of value preservation after a period of ownership significantly exceeds that of any other brand in the luxury car segment. High residual value is important to the primary market because clients, when purchasing our cars, take into account the expected resale value of the car in assessing the overall cost of ownership. Furthermore, a higher residual value potentially lowers the cost for the owner to switch to a new model thereby supporting client loyalty and promoting repeat purchases. 29 Range Models and Special Series Our products include the range models and special series described below. Our range models currently consist of six models, including three sports cars, the 488 GTB, the 488 Spider and the 812 Superfast, and three GT cars, the California T, the GTC4Lusso and the GTC4Lusso T. The Ferrari Portofino will replace the California T, with shipments expected to begin in the second quarter of 2018. We also offer special series cars based on our range models. These cars are characterized by significant hardware and software modifications (engine, aerodynamics, and dynamics among others), designed to enhance performance and drivability when compared to current range models. Our latest special series, unveiled in October 2015 , is the F12tdf, which is based on the F12berlinetta. All of our range and special series models feature highly customizable interior and exterior options such as forged rims, luxury leathers, seat style, panoramic roof, dashboard and steering wheel inserts (see “ —Personalization Program and Tailor Made Program ”). 488 GTB The 488 GTB is a two seater berlinetta with a 670 hp mid-rear mounted V8 engine. It was launched in March 2015 , 40 years after we unveiled our first ever mid-rear-engined V8 model (the 308 GTB). The model’s exterior and interior design was developed entirely by Ferrari Design Centre. Its large signature air intake scallop evokes the original 308 GTB and is divided into two sections by a splitter. Designed for track-level performance, the 488 GTB can also provide enjoyment to non-professional drivers for everyday use. Accelerating from 0-200 km/h in only 8.3 seconds, its new 3902 cc V8 turbo engine is at the top of the class for power output, torque and response times. In the cabin, the seamless integration of the new satellite control clusters, angled air vents and instrument panel heightens the sense that the cockpit is completely tailored around the driver, leading to an extremely sporty yet comfortable ambiance. The 488 GTB has collected various accolades including: Autocar (UK) – 2015 ‘Best Driver’s Car’, Sport Auto (Germany) – 2015 Best Brands Awards – “Best Coupé over €150,000” and Middle East Car of the Year (MECOTY) – ‘Best Supercar 2015’. 30 488 Spider The 488 Spider, launched in September 2015, is a two seat coupe with a 670 hp mid-rear mounted V8 engine. Its retractable hard top, which saves approximately 25 kg on a soft top, unfolds and retracts in 14 seconds and can also be raised or lowered while the car is moving. If offers the full experience of sports car driving, especially on mixed and challenging surfaces, but aims to cater to those who do not need to constantly push their car to the limit on the track. Styled entirely in-house at Ferrari Design Centre and designed around the retractable hard top concept, the 488 Spider combines the prowess of the 488 GTB coupe’s mid-rear V8 with innovations in aerodynamics, including a new Ferrari-patented blown spoiler, which allows air to enter an intake at the base of the rear screen and exit via the bumper and reduces drag. The 488 Spider accelerates from 0 to 100 km/h in 3.0 seconds and from 0 to 200 km/h in 8.7 seconds and offers exceptional dynamic behavior, with close to no turbo lag and response time of just 0.8 seconds. 812 Superfast Unveiled at the Geneva Motor Show in 2017, the 812 Superfast is equipped with a 800 hp V12 engine. Built around highly evolved transaxle architecture and equipped with leading-edge components and controls, it boasts a striking design and aerodynamics as well as uniquely smooth handling. It ushers in a new generation of Ferrari 12-cylinders and we believe it is the new benchmark for mid-front-engined sports cars. This is a model that will deliver a riveting, rewarding driving experience on both road and track, thanks to its superb handling and ride comfort on longer trips. The 812 Superfast incorporates several innovations such as EPS (Electric Power Steering) for pure exhilarating fun, PCV system (Passo Corto Virtuale - four wheel steering system), an evolution of Side Slip Control (SSC) and innovative aerodynamics content. 31 F12tdf The F12tdf was unveiled in October 2015 and has finished its limited series run in 2017. The F12tdf is our latest special series sports car (based on the F12berlinetta), which pays tribute to the Tour de France, the legendary endurance road race that Ferrari dominated in the 1950s and 1960s. Designed entirely in-house at Ferrari Design Centre, the F12tdf is a two seat coupe equipped with a 6262cc 65° V12 engine with a maximum power of 780 hp at 8,500 rpm. The F12tdf is the most powerful high performance Ferrari sports car ever built. Its engine’s sporty response is assured by a maximum torque of 705 Nm (up from 690 Nm) at 6,750 rpm with 80% of such force already available at 2,500 rpm. The F12tdf is equipped with a new Ferrari innovative rear-wheel steering system, known as the Virtual Short Wheelbase (or Passo Corto Virtuale ), which together with wider front tires and other vehicle dynamic control systems provides the steering wheel response times and turn-in of a competition car while increasing stability at high speed. These factors combine to produce an outstanding acceleration: 0-100 km/h in 2.9 seconds and 0-200 km/h in 7.9 seconds. California T The California T, which is being phased out, followed the great success of our 2008 California model and is equipped with a 560 hp V8 turbo engine. Launched in 2014 , it is the only GT car in the segment to combine a retractable hard top, rear seats and a ski passage to the spacious trunk. Its new turbocharged V8 engine comes with a variable boost management system. This makes it the only turbo engine in the world with close to no turbo lag. It also features a revised rear and interior design and a 15 percent reduction in fuel consumption compared to its predecessor. Its lines, penned by Ferrari Design Centre in collaboration with Pininfarina, were awarded the 2015 Red Dot Design Award. In January 2016 , we announced the introduction of the Handling Speciale Package (“HSP”) on the California T. The HSP, designed to ensure increased performance, handling and response for a more sporty driving experience, was launched at the Geneva Motor Show in March 2016 . 32 Ferrari Portofino Unveiled in September 2017 at the Frankfurt Motorshow, the Ferrari Portofino is the successor of the California T in the Ferrari GT range. The model is set to lead its segment thanks to a combination of outright performance and versatility in addition to a level of driving pleasure and on-board comfort that we believe is unparalleled on the market. The car is 80 kg lighter than the California T thanks to the adoption of new components featuring innovative designs made possible by the use of advanced production techniques. This, combined with a 40 cv higher output than the California T, has resulted in a significant hike in performance and a corresponding drop in emissions. The Ferrari Portofino is capable of unleashing 600 cv and sprinting from 0 to 200 km/h in just 10.8 seconds. It combines the advantages of a retractable hard top, a roomy boot and generous cockpit space, complete with two rear seats suitable for short trips. The new car, which takes its name, Portofino, from the renowned village on the Italian Riviera, an eponym for stylish elegance, is a Ferrari designed to be driven every day delivering a unique Ferrari sound and superb driving pleasure even in day-to-day situations. GTC4Lusso Unveiled in February 2016 , the GTC4Lusso is our latest four-seater four-wheel drive Grand Tourer model. Its name recalls historic Ferrari models, such as the 330GT 2+2 and the 250 GT Berlinetta Lusso, renowned for their combination of elegance and performance. The Ferrari Design-penned GTC4Lusso adds a further refinement to the shooting brake coupe style to produce a streamlined, tapered silhouette. The GTC4Lusso is equipped with a 6262cc 65° V12 engine with a maximum power of 690 hp, maximum speed of 335/Km/h and acceleration of 0-100 km/h in 3.4 seconds The Ferrari-patented integrated four wheel drive and steering system allows the driver to effortlessly handle the exceptional torque in a variety of road conditions. Shipments of the GTC4Lusso began in the third quarter of 2016 . 33 GTC4Lusso T Ferrari further broadened its range at the Mondial de l’Automobile 2016 in Paris with the world premiere of the new GTC4Lusso T, Maranello’s first ever full 4-seater to be powered by a V8, combining sportiness and versatility with day-to-day drivability. The GTC4Lusso T is equipped with the latest evolution of the “International Engine of the Year 2016” V8 turbo family. The 3.9-liter engine produces a maximum of 610 cv at 7,500 rpm, delivering instant throttle response and smooth progressive pick-up across the rev range. This impressive performance is matched by fuel consumption figures that yield an excellent range, making the car ideal for both city driving and longer journeys. Adding four-wheel steering and specific calibration of the dynamic control systems to the mix has produced an extremely agile and responsive car. Production of the GTC4Lusso T started in December 2016 and shipments started in the second quarter of 2017 . Personalization Program and Tailor Made Program All of our models feature highly customizable interior and exterior options, which together comprise our personalization catalogue. Some of these options include custom shop wheels, alternate brake caliper colors, parking cameras, MagneRide dual mode suspension, sport exhaust systems, panoramic roof option, various door configurations, steering wheel inserts and state of the art custom high fidelity sound systems. With our “Special Equipment” program, we offer clients additional customization choices for their car. Our specialists are able to guide clients in creating a very customized car through a wide catalog of special items such as different types of rare leathers, custom stitching, special paints, special carbon fiber, and personalized luggage sets designed to match the car’s interior. The “Atelier” and “Tailor Made” programs provide two additional levels of personalization in accordance with the expectations of our clients. In particular, in the “Tailor Made” program a dedicated Ferrari designer assists clients in selecting and applying virtually any specific design element chosen by the client. Our clients benefit from a large choice of finishes and accessories in an array of different materials (ranging from cashmere to denim), treatments and hues. To assist our clients’ choice we also offer three collections inspired by Ferrari’s own tradition: Scuderia (taking its lead from our sporting history), Classica (bringing a modern twist to the styling cues of our signature GT models) and Inedita (showcasing more experimental and innovation-led personalization). 34 Tailor Made 70th Anniversary Collection As part of activities to mark the 70th anniversary of the company, Ferrari Tailor Made, together with the designers of the Ferrari Design Center have put a modern twist on the stylistic features that distinguished 70 iconic Ferraris of the past interpreted in a contemporary way on five of our range models for a total of 350 special edition liveries. All the cars are distinguished by the commemorative logo of the 70th anniversary along with an ID plaque with the name of the model that inspired it. The project was unveiled at the Paris Motor Show in September 2016 . Limited Edition Supercars, Fuori Serie and One-Offs In line with our tradition of supercars starting with the 288GTO in 1984 through to the Enzo in 2002 and the LaFerrari Aperta, our latest supercar which we launched in 2016, we also produce limited edition supercars. These are the highest expression of Ferrari road car performance at the time and are often the forerunners of technological innovations for future range models, with innovative features and futuristic design. Furthermore, in connection with certain events or celebrations, we also launch very limited edition cars (our fuori serie ). These models can be offered globally, or may be limited to specific local markets. Based on an exotic product concept not available on the standard Ferrari model range, these cars feature completely unique design and specifications compared to our other models. 35 LaFerrari Aperta LaFerrari Aperta is the open top version of the LaFerrari, the latest in our line of supercars. Like its coupé sibling, the LaFerrari Aperta is equipped with hybrid technology. Alongside its powerful rear-wheel drive layout V12 engine (which generates 800 hp), the hybrid system comprises two electric motors and a special battery consisting of cells developed by the Scuderia Ferrari where the F138 KERS technology was pioneered. Because the battery generates an additional 163 hp, LaFerrari Aperta has a combined total of 963 hp. LaFerrari Aperta’s HY-KERS system is designed to achieve seamless integration and rapid communication between the V12 and electric motor, thus blending extreme performance with maximum efficiency. Thanks to the hybrid technology, LaFerrari Aperta generates almost 50 percent more horsepower than the Enzo, its predecessor, and 220 hp more than the F12, our most powerful car to date. Production and shipments started in the third quarter of 2016 and are expected to end in 2018. Ferrari J50 The J50 is a two-seater, mid-rear-engined roadster that marks a return to the targa body style evocative of several well-loved Ferrari road cars of the 1970s and 1980s. It was introduced during a celebration held at the National Art Center in Tokyo to commemorate the 50th anniversary of Ferrari in Japan in December 2016. Designed by the Ferrari Styling Centre team in Maranello, just 10 examples of the J50 will be built and, in the spirit of Ferrari’s fuori serie tradition, each one will be tailored specifically to the customer’s requirements. Based on the 488 Spider, the J50 is powered by a specific 690 cv version of the 3.9-liter V8 that won the overall International Engine of the Year Award this year. The bodywork is all new and heralds a radical 36 and futuristic design language, with a highly distinctive personality that suits the tastes of a clientele seeking the utmost in innovative styling. Production started during 2017 and all deliveries will take place in 2018. One-Offs Finally, in order to meet the varying needs of our most loyal and discerning clients, we also from time to time produce one-off models. While based on the chassis and equipped with engines of one of the current range models for homologation and registration purposes, these cars reflect the exact exterior and interior design specifications requested by the clients, and are produced as a single, unique car. Some of the most iconic models to have emerged from our One-Off program include the SP12 EC, the F12 TRS (a radical two-seat roadster created on the platform of the F12berlinetta in 2014) and the 458MM Speciale. The program is expanding due to increasing demand. Non-Registered Racing Cars Based on our Sports and GT cars, we also develop and manufacture special racing cars. These cars are not registered for use on the road and may only be used on track in competitive and non-competitive race events. This activity is managed by the Attività Sportive GT Department which includes: Competizioni GT (taking care of the  GT racing) and Corse Clienti (taking care of the Ferrari Challenge one-make series, The Corso Pilota driving courses, the XX Programmes and the F1 Clienti activity). 37 488 GTR/GTLM and 488 GT3/GTD They are sold to clients and private teams as racing cars specifically developed for professional racing with the aim to compete in the FIA World Endurance Championship, in several GT International series and also historical races like Daytona 24 Hours, Le Mans 24 Hours. In 2016, its first year of competition, the 488 GTE won the FIA World Cup for GT Manufacturers and the 488 GT3 special car won several other competitions such as the GTD class of the IMSA SportsCar Championship and the GT class of the Asian Le Mans Series. In 2017, the 488 GTE was even more successful gaining the FIA World Title for GT Manufacturers, the Drivers Title  and Team Cup and the European Le Mans Series. The 488 GT3/D also doubled the victory, winning once again the IMSA SportsCar Championship. XX Programme Since 2005 , we have been operating our XX Programme, a non-competitive “owner-test drivers” program organized at some of the best known race tracks in Europe, Asia and North America. Through the XX Programme, we test advanced solutions and technological innovations by providing a select group of clients the opportunity to drive cars enhanced with superior 38 power and performance characteristics. As part of this program, we have developed the FXX K, based on LaFerrari, shipments of which started in the second quarter of 2015 . Although conceived as a track-only model, the FXX K was specially styled by Ferrari Design Centre working closely with the aerodynamics engineers. The FXX K received the Red Dot “Best of the Best” Design Award in 2015 , one of the most recognized design awards in the world. The FXX K Evo was launched in October 2017 at the Finali Mondiali in Mugello. F1 Clienti Introduced in 2003, the F1 Clienti program allows a limited number of exclusive Ferrari lovers to both purchase previously-used Scuderia Ferrari Formula 1 cars and experience them in full. Formula 1 cars that we sell as part of this program include recent cars of the 21 st century, such as those driven by Kimi Raikkonen and Felipe Massa, and cars from decades ago, such as the 412 T2 of 1995, the last Formula 1 car to be powered by a 12-cylinder engine which is now back on the racetrack thanks to F1 Clienti. Owners can focus exclusively on the driving experience, while the F1 Clienti program can arrange for the cars to be kept at Maranello for safekeeping, where F1 technicians and mechanics perform regular maintenance of the cars. The F1 Clienti program includes a series of events throughout the year that enable customers to experience the pleasure of driving on prestigious tracks in front of a live crowd. 39 Ferrari Challenge Trofeo Pirelli - 488 Challenge Ferrari Challenge is the biggest one-make series in the world. The series was established in 1993 and the events are FIA approved, thus ensuring very high safety standards and dependable organization. The championship was an immediate success: the formula for the event ensures that cars are very closely matched, thus putting the focus on the drivers. There are three series: Europe, which is the oldest, North America and Asia-Pacific. The 488 Challenge marks the 25th anniversary of the Ferrari Challenge and was launched in December 2016 at the Finali Mondiali in Daytona. The 488 Challenge is the first equipped with a turbo engine to get on track in the Ferrari one-make series. It is the most powerful car in the Challenge history thanks to 670 hp from the V8 3.9-liter engine derived from the 488 GTB. Ferrari’s patented Slip Slip Angle Control software is installed for the first time on a Challenge car, improving the longitudinal acceleration through bends by 4.2 percent. Production started in 2017 . Corso Pilota Driving Courses Initiated in 1993, Corso Pilota driving courses enable Ferrari customers to experience and appreciate the full formidable performance of the Ferrari models in a safe environment. It provides an opportunity to attend various, increasingly technical and complex courses that begin with the Sport, Advance, and Evolution levels, and culminate with the Challenge course. Led by professional instructors with years of Ferrari driving experience, the courses are designed to progressively develop participants’ driving style and skills so that they will obtain sufficient mastery to compete safely in real Challenge Championship races. The selection and preparation of the Ferrari cars used for the courses is of fundamental importance and the current fleet consists of 488 GTB, 812 Superfast and 488 Challenge models. Sales and After-Sales Our commercial team, which includes 234 employees at December 31, 2017 , is organized in four geographic areas covering our principal regional end markets: (i) EMEA, which is also responsible for South Africa and India, (ii) Americas, (iii) China, Hong Kong and Taiwan (on a combined basis), and (iv) Rest of APAC (which includes the rest of Asia and Oceania). Dealer network We sell our cars exclusively through a network of authorized dealers (with the exception of one-offs which we sell directly to end clients). In our larger markets we act as importer either through wholly owned subsidiaries or, in China, through a subsidiary partly owned by a local partner, and we sell the cars to dealers for resale to end clients. In smaller markets we generally sell the cars to a single importer. We regularly assess the composition of our dealer network in order to maintain the highest level of quality. The dealer assessment and selection process may cause a variation of the number of dealers from time 40 to time. Following our decision to terminate the distributor in Hong Kong in 2016, we now import cars into Hong Kong directly and have appointed a new dealer which became fully operational during the third quarter of 2017. Moreover, we decided to establish a fully-owned subsidiary aimed to be closer to the market and enhance the brand visibility in this market. At December 31, 2017 , our network comprised 164 dealers operating 185 points of sale. We do not own dealerships and, while our strategy does not contemplate owning dealerships, we retain flexibility to consider all market requirements from time to time. We believe that our careful and strict selection of the dealers that sell our cars is a key factor for promoting the integrity and success of our brand. Our selection criteria are based on the candidates’ reputation, financial solidity and track record. We are also mindful to select dealers who are able to provide an in-store experience and to market and promote our cars in a manner intended to preserve the Ferrari brand integrity and to ensure the highest level of client satisfaction. While dealers may hold multiple franchises, we enjoy a high degree of prominence and level of representation at each point of sale, where most of the client interface and retail experience is exclusive to Ferrari. Our network and business development team works directly with individual dealers to ensure various standards are met. All dealers must conform to our rigorous design, layout and corporate identity guidelines ensuring uniformity of the image and client interface. Through the Ferrari Academy we provide training to dealers for sales, after sales and technical activities to ensure our dealer network delivers a consistent level of market leading standards across diverse cultural environments. We train and monitor dealers intensively and we collect and observe data relating to their profitability and financial health in order to prevent or mitigate any adverse experience for clients arising from a dealer ceasing to do business or experiencing financial difficulties. Our representatives visit dealerships regularly to measure compliance with our operating standards. We have the right to terminate dealer relationships in a variety of circumstances including failure to meet performance or financial standards, or failure to comply with our guidelines. We provide a suggested retail price or a maximum retail price for all of our cars, but each dealer is free to negotiate different prices with clients and to provide financing. Although many of our clients in certain markets purchase our cars from dealers without financing, we provide direct or indirect finance and leasing services to retail clients and to dealers. (See “— Financial Services ”). The total number of our dealers as well as their geographical distribution tends to reflect closely the development or expected development of sales volumes to end clients in our various markets over time. Dealer turnover is relatively low, reflecting the strength of the franchise and our selection processes, but is sufficient to guarantee an orderly renewal over time and to stimulate the network’s health and performance. The chart below sets forth the geographic distribution of our 185 points of sale at December 31, 2017: 41 Our sales are diversified across our dealer network, with the largest dealer representing approximately 2.2 percent of sales, and our 15 largest dealers representing 21.7 percent of sales. As part of our supply and demand management, we determine allocations based on various metrics including expected developments in the relevant market, the number of cars sold historically by the various dealers, current order book of dealers and the average waiting time of the end client in the relevant market. Our order reporting system allows us to collect and monitor information regarding end client orders and is able to assist us in production planning, allocation and dealer management. Parts We supply parts for current and older models of Ferrari to our authorized dealer network.     In addition to substitution of spare parts during the life of the car, sales are driven by clients’ demand for parts to customize their cars and maximize performance, particularly after a change in ownership and to compete in the Ferrari Challenge and other client races. We also supply parts to Ferrari models currently out of production, with stocks dating back to 1995. The stock of parts for even older models is currently owned and managed by a third party which in some cases also manufactures out-of-stock parts based on our design. The sale of parts is a profitable component of our product mix and it is expected to benefit from the increase in the number of Ferrari cars in circulation. After Sales Dealers provide after sales services to clients, either at facilities adjacent to showrooms, or in stand-alone service points across 231 facilities worldwide. After sales activities are very important for our business to ensure the client’s continued enjoyment of the car and the experience. Therefore, we enforce a strict quality control on our dealers’ services activities and we provide continued training and support to the dealers’ service personnel. This includes our team of “flying doctors,” Ferrari engineers who regularly travel to service centers to address difficult technical issues for our clients. We also sell certain cars together with a scheduled program of recommended maintenance services in order to ensure that these cars are maintained to the highest standards to meet our strict requirements for performance and safety. While we do not have any direct involvement in pre-owned car sales, we seek to support a healthy secondary market in order to promote the value of our brand, benefit our clients and facilitate sales of new cars. Our dealers provide an inspection service for clients seeking to sell their car which involves detailed checks on the car and a certification on which the client can rely, covering, among other things, the authenticity of the car, the conformity to original technical specifications, and the state of repair. Furthermore, we offer owners of classic Ferrari cars maintenance and restoration services. Client Relations Our clients are the backbone of our business together with our brand and our technology. We do not promote our brand or our cars through general advertising. Our main brand marketing and promotional activities have two principal targets. Firstly, we target the general public. Our most significant effort in this respect is centered on our racing activities and the resonance of Scuderia Ferrari (see “ —Formula 1 Activities ”). We also engage in other brand-promotional activities, including participation in motor shows and other public events. Secondly, we target existing and prospective clients, seeking to promote clients’ knowledge of our products, and their enjoyment of our cars both on road and on track, and to foster long term relationships with our clients, which is key to our success. In 2017, more than 65 percent of our new cars were sold to Ferrari owners. By purchasing our cars, clients become part of a select community sharing a primary association with the Ferrari image and we foster this sense of fellowship with a number of initiatives. We strive to maximize the experience of our clients throughout their period of interaction with Ferrari — from first contact, through purchasing decision process, to waiting-time management and ownership. Client events We organize a number of client events at Maranello and elsewhere. Our factory in Maranello is the core of our client engagement strategy and a symbolic hub attracting clients and prospects worldwide. Upon invitation, clients and prospects can visit the factory, witness some of its workings and experience several 42 Ferrari core values such as heritage, exclusivity and customization. At the factory, clients have the opportunity to configure their cars through our personalization and bespoke program (see “ —Personalization Program and Tailor Made Program ”). Every new model launch is carefully staged and selected clients and prospects have preferential access to the new car. The new model presentation begins with the release of images providing a preliminary, often partial view of its design. Clients are then invited to a preview or world premiere. A public model presentation generally follows at motor shows where clients are provided access to the Ferrari stand. Further country and regional events follow before delivery of the first cars to dealers. During 2017, to celebrate our 70th anniversary, over 60 nations hosted Ferrari events crafted to treat clients and enthusiasts to a string of unique experiences as part of the “ Driven by Emotion ” concept. Thus March 12, 2017 marked the start of the anniversary events, with Australasia opening the program. The anniversary celebrations were flanked by many initiatives paying homage to the Cavallino Rampante heritage, not least two exclusive tours through Tuscany: the Cavalcade Classiche in May devoted to the cars that have made the history of Ferrari, and the 250 GTO rally , dedicated to one of the best known and admired Ferraris of all time. On September 7 and 8, moreover, clients were invited to a two day World Premiere of the Ferrari Portofino , the new GT convertible with a 600 hp V8 engine, at the famous former fishing village whose name it bears. The festivities for the 70th anniversary culminated in Maranello on the weekend of September 9 and 10, when Ferrari hosted over 4,000 clients and almost 1,000 cars from all over the world at its Fiorano track. Driving events Driving events serve the dual objective of allowing clients to experience at their best the emotion of driving a Ferrari car, and to foster client loyalty and repeat purchases by creating superior car-usage occasions. Track and sporty driving activities are mainly targeted to clients with a preference for sports models. In addition to several track day activities, organized by local sales departments and dealers to allow clients to use their cars on ad-hoc rented tracks, Ferrari has a central department responsible for professionally organizing races and racing courses, Corse Clienti. The Corse Clienti activities take place on some of the world’s most famous race tracks, and include both competitive races, such as the Ferrari Challenge Championships, and non-competitive events, such as with XX and F1 Programme . The XX and F1 Programme is a highly selective initiative dedicated to a restricted group of clients who own non-homologated GT race cars and F1 cars previously used in the Formula 1 Championship. Ferrari Challenge and XX/Formula 1 events are sometimes accompanied by so-called Ferrari Racing Days . These events are open to non-competing clients and prospects and a wider audience, and they offer the opportunity for important client gatherings. In addition to on-track racing, we organize various on-the-road driving events, including both proprietary formats ( Ferrari Cavalcade, also including the International Edition ) or with a branded presence within an established driving event. For example, in the Ferrari Tribute to Mille Miglia and the Ferrari Tribute to Targa Florio modern Ferrari cars participate in their own regularity rally taking place shortly before the start of the classic Mille Miglia and Targa Florio races. We see nurturing our clients’ passion for driving as a key asset for our future commercial success, particularly in markets where racing traditions are less pronounced. We offer to our prospective and existing clients interested in new Ferrari models our Esperienza Ferrari initiative, which consists of driving sessions designed to allow participants to experience the pleasure of driving a Ferrari with a team of highly qualified and skilled Ferrari instructors and technicians professionally trained in high-performance driving. In addition we also offer on-track driving courses to our clients, catering to different levels of skill and experience and teaching essential driving skills for high performance cars. In our newer markets, such as China, we also offer complimentary driving courses on track to any new car buyer. Ferrari Classiche The Ferrari Classiche department aims to provide Ferrari customers with a point of reference for managing their historic Ferrari vehicles with the objective of keeping as many of these classic cars on the road as possible. Services include the certification of the authenticity of classic Ferrari cars and vehicles of particular historical relevance, the management of Ferrari restoration and repair activities, as well as the management of Ferrari spare parts, including when these are no longer available on the market. The department also provides advice on repair operations carried out on Ferrari Classiche cars within its network. 43 Ferrari Classiche aims to create a platform of information and technical expertise to preserve and enhance over time the awareness and value of Ferrari’s heritage and brand. We view the surviving Ferrari vehicles of historical value as the tangible legacy and incarnation of our brand. The Ferrari Classiche department also supports and encourages the direct participation of clients in strategic historical events. The Ferrari Classiche department in Maranello consists of an office of specialists and a workshop in which historic cars are restored and repaired. In addition, in order to provide an enhanced service to owners away from the proximity of the main workshop in Maranello, starting in 2017 Ferrari Classiche has authorized a new service network with 48 new “Officina Ferrari Classiche” workshops, primarily for vehicle repairs and the certifications’ inspections or revalidation, and the network is expected to expand in future periods. The originality of the car with respect to the initial specifications is checked via a technical inspection, performed either at the Ferrari Classiche facility in Maranello or at an authorized Officina Ferrari Classiche, and benefits from a comprehensive archive containing drawings of each of the individual chassis details of historical components. Based on the evidence gathered during this inspection, the car is then presented to an expert committee, chaired by the founder’s son, Piero Ferrari, for the certification. In recent years, Ferrari has certified approximately 400 cars each year. At the Maranello workshop, Ferrari Classiche carries out approximately 10 full restorations every year, along with 20 partial restorations. We use either original components and spare parts or replicas manufactured in accordance with the original specifications, and our restoration service offers our clients the opportunity to reinstate any classic Ferrari to its original pristine conditions. Formula 1 Activities Participation in the Formula 1 World Championship with Scuderia Ferrari is the core element of our marketing effort and an important source of technological innovation for the engineering, development and production of our Sports and GT cars. The Formula 1 World Championship is the pinnacle of motorsports with over 350 million television viewers in 2017 (Source: FOM/Kantar Media 2017) , which make it one of the most watched annual sport series in the world. Formula 1 cars rely on advanced technology, powerful hybrid engines and cutting edge aerodynamics, While Europe is the sport’s traditional base, Formula 1’s reach has expanded significantly and an increasing number of Grand Prix are held in non-European countries, such as China, Bahrain, United Arab Emirates, Singapore, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Japan, Mexico and the United States. This provides participants in the Formula 1 World Championship exceptional visibility on the world stage, and coverage now extends well beyond the range of conventional media with growing exposure on social networks. Scuderia Ferrari has been racing in the Formula 1 World Championship since the series launched in 1950, and won its first Grand Prix in 1951. We are the only team that has competed in each season since launch and the oldest and most successful in the history of Formula 1, with 229 Grand Prix wins. Throughout our racing history, we have won 15 drivers’ championships and 16 constructors championships, more than any other team. Many of the best known drivers in the sport’s history have raced in Scuderia Ferrari’s distinctive red single-seaters including Alberto Ascari, Juan-Manuel Fangio, Niki Lauda, Gilles Villeneuve, Alain Prost and Michael Schumacher. Our drivers’ line-up currently comprises four-time World Champion Sebastian Vettel, who joined Ferrari at the beginning of 2015, and Kimi Raikkonen, now in his second term with the Scuderia Ferrari, for which he won the World Drivers title in 2007. Together, the two drivers have won a total of 67 Grands Prix. The 2017 Formula 1 season was our most successful in the last seven years, with our team achieving five Grands Prix victories and five pole positions. In the Constructors’ Championship we achieved our best result since the current point system was implemented in 2010. Reorganization of the team and continuous research are part of an ongoing process aimed at further improving team performance in the future. Participation in the Formula 1 World Championship is regulated by bilateral Team Agreements entered into between Formula 1 World Championship Limited (FOWC), the Formula 1’s commercial rights holder, and each competing Formula 1 racing team (including Ferrari) and by regulations issued by the Federation Internationale de l’Automobile (FIA), the motor sport’s governing body. On January 23, 2017, Liberty Media Corporation completed the acquisition of all the shares of Delta Topco Limited, the holding company of  FOWC. The bilateral Team Agreements will remain unaffected by the change of control. As a consequence of the change of control, Ferrari exercised the options it was granted pursuant to the Team Agreement and in February 2017 received approximately $11.4 million in cash (including $2.7 million of previously undistributed dividends), 145 thousand 44 Liberty Media Corporation shares (“Liberty Shares”) and $911 thousand of Liberty Media exchangeable notes. The Liberty Media exchangeable notes were subsequently converted to Liberty Media shares in November 2017. The Team Agreements cover the 2013-2020 racing seasons and govern the terms by which the racing teams take their share of commercial profits. The FIA regulations regulate how the cars are manufactured and how the teams compete in races and include technical regulations governing aspects ranging from tires, weight to ignition, fueling and throttle requirements, and sporting regulations covering scoring and racing procedures. In return for their participation in Formula 1 races the teams receive a share of a prize fund based on the profits earned from Formula 1 related commercial activities managed by FOWC, including in particular, television broadcasting royalties and other sources, such as racetrack owners’ fees. Shares in a prize fund are paid to the teams, largely based on the relative ranking of each team in the championship. We use our share of these payments to defray part of the costs associated with Scuderia Ferrari, including the costs of designing and producing a set of single-seaters each year and the costs associated with managing a racing team including earnings of drivers, who generally are among the most highly paid athletes in the world. The terms under which racing teams may continue to participate in racing seasons following expiration of the current Team Agreements in 2020 are under discussion with the new owners of Formula 1 business. See “ Risk Factors - Our revenues from Formula 1 activities may decline and our related expenses may grow .” Improvements in technology and sometimes, changes in regulation, require the design and production of a new racing car every year. Therefore, in addition to our long-term research and development efforts, we begin designing our single-seaters each year in the Spring, in anticipation of the start of the racing season the following March. While the chassis we build each year are designed to be used throughout the racing season, the majority of other components fitted on our cars are adjusted from race to race depending on the characteristics of the circuits. To maximize the performance, efficiency and safety of our single-seaters, while complying with the strict technical rules and restrictions set out by the FIA, our research and development team plays a key role in the development of our engines and cars. We often transfer technologies initially developed for racing to our road cars. Examples include steering wheel paddles for gearshifting, the use and development of composite materials, which makes cars lighter and faster, and technology related to hybrid propulsion. Our road cars (especially our sports car models) have benefited from the know-how acquired in the wind tunnel by our racing car development teams, enjoying greater stability as they reach high speeds on and off the track. Our research and development team focused on combining minimal lap times with maximum efficiency, leading to advances in kinetic energy recovery system, or ERS, technology. Current advanced ERS feature two electric motor/generator units in every car, which allow the driver to recover, store and deploy energy generated both by the vehicle during braking and by the exhaust gases through a turbocharger. Building on our racing team’s expertise, we developed a hybrid ERS system for our LaFerrari and LaFerrari Aperta road cars. The high brand visibility we achieve through participation in the Formula 1 World Championship has historically enabled us to benefit from significant sponsorships. Philip Morris International has been Scuderia Ferrari’s official sponsor for over forty years and, together with Shell (our official sponsor since 1996) remain our principal official sponsors. Banco Santander was also one of our official sponsors from 2008 until the end of 2017. Other official sponsors include Alfa Romeo, UPS, Kaspersky lab, Weichai, Hublot and Ray-Ban. Our official suppliers include, among others, Pirelli, Puma, Ray-Ban, IVECO, Mahle, NGK, Magneti Marelli and OMR. Visibility and placement of a sponsor’s logo reflects the level of sponsorship fees. Historically, our sponsors have sought advertising opportunities on the chassis of our cars, on clothes worn by our team members and drivers, and in the right to mention Ferrari in their marketing materials. We use the platform provided by Formula 1 for a number of associated marketing initiatives, such as the hosting of clients and other key partners in the Scuderia Ferrari paddock to watch Grand Prix races, and our Formula 1 drivers participation in various promotional activities for our road cars. We often sell older single-seaters to clients for use in amateur racing or collection. More generally, Formula 1 racing allows us to promote and market our brand and technology to a global audience without resorting to traditional advertising activities, therefore preserving the aura of exclusivity around our brand and limiting the marketing costs that we, as a company operating in the luxury industry, would otherwise incur. The Mugello Circuit We acquired the international Mugello circuit in Scarperia, near Florence, in 1988. We have renovated its buildings, 5.2 km race track and other testing and racing facilities, making Mugello what we believe to be one of the world’s finest circuits of its type, with FIA Grade 1 and FIM Grade A certifications, the highest level of homologation for a racetrack. 45 We promote the Mugello circuit to event organizers who regularly rent the circuit to host leading car and motorbike races, including the MotoGP World Championship since 1992. In 2017, almost 93,000 people attended the MotoGP World Championship at Mugello, a great attendance for the show. In 2011, the Mugello circuit won its fifth “Best Grand Prix” award, the highest honor given by the motor sport world for MotoGP organizers. The Mugello circuit is the only track race to have received this award five times. Brand Activities Ferrari is one of the world’s leading luxury brands. We engage in brand development and protection activities through licensing contracts with selected partners, retail activities through a chain of franchised or directly managed stores, licensed theme parks and the development of a line of apparel and accessories sold exclusively in our monobrand stores and on our website www.store.ferrari.com . Ferrari owns and manages two museums, one in Maranello and one in Modena, which attracted more than 530,000 visitors in 2017. Licensing and Theme Parks We enter into license agreements with a number of licensees for the design, development and production of Ferrari branded products. We carefully select our licensees through a rigorous process and we contractually seek to ensure that our brand and intellectual property are protected and that the products which will eventually bear our brand are of adequate quality, appearance and market positioning. The table below sets forth our current licensing mix. Category Principal Licensees Accessories o    Luxottica (sunglasses) o    Tod’s (shoes and leather goods) Consumer electronics o    Various Fragrances o    Perfume Holding Sportswear o    Puma Theme Parks o    Ferrari World, Abu Dhabi o    Ferrari Land, Port Aventura Toys o    Bburago (play-set) o    Lego (Lego toys) Video games o    Electronic Arts o    Microsoft o    Sony Polyphony o    Ubisoft Watches o    Hublot (co-branded high-luxury watches) o    Movado (Scuderia Ferrari Watches) Other (including collectors’ models, kid apparels, and accessories, stationary and credit cards) o    Various A significant portion of our revenues from licensing activities consists of royalties we receive in connection with Ferrari World, our theme park in Abu Dhabi (13 percent of royalties generated by licensing activities). Ferrari World opened on Yas Island, on the North East side of Abu Dhabi’s mainland, in 2010. Ferrari World’s iconic sleek red roof is directly inspired by the classic double curve side profile of the Ferrari GT body, spanning 200,000 square meters and carrying the largest Ferrari logo ever created. Ferrari World Abu Dhabi offers an all-around Ferrari experience to children and adults alike. The attractions include futuristic 4D rides such as the child-friendly Speed of Magic and the world’s fastest roller-coaster, Formula Rossa, which reaches speeds of 240 km/h and simulates the breathtaking adrenaline rush of a Ferrari single-seater. New attractions like the roller-coaster Flying Aces, the children’s ride Benno’s Great Race and the Turbo Track vertical climbing accelerator have been opened in 2016 and 2017. 46 Our second theme park, Ferrari Land Portaventura, opened in April 2017 near Barcelona, and includes Red Force, the tallest and fastest roller-coaster in Europe. In the long-term we aim to open one theme park in each of the main geographic areas where we operate, including North America and Asia. Retail and E-Commerce Through our network of stores (franchised or directly managed), we offer a wide range of Scuderia Ferrari branded products, including a line of apparel and accessories exclusively sold in our stores and on our website. All products sold in our stores and on our website are either directly sourced from our selected network of suppliers or manufactured by our licensees. At December 31, 2017 , there were a total of 48 retail Ferrari stores, including those in Maranello, Milan, Rome, Macau, New York, Miami, Los Angeles, Johannesburg, Dubai and Abu Dhabi, of which 30 franchised stores (including 8 Ferrari Store Junior) and 18 stores owned and operated by us. We require all franchisees to operate our monobrand stores according to our standards. Stores are designed, decorated, furnished and stocked according to our directions and specifications. We use multiple criteria to select our franchisees, including know-how, financial condition, sales network and market access. Generally, we require that applicants meet certain minimum working capital requirements and have the requisite business facilities and resources. We typically enter into a standard franchising agreement with our franchisees. Pursuant to this agreement, the franchisee is authorized to sell our products exclusively at a suggested retail price. In exchange, we provide them with our products, the benefit of our marketing platform and association with our corporate identity. In recent years, e-commerce has proved to be an increasingly valuable sales channel, with over 490,000 registered users in more than 190 countries and translations in seven languages. Design, Development and Manufacturing Design The design of our cars is an essential and distinctive component of our products and our brand. Our designers, modelers and engineers work together to create car bodies that incorporate the most innovative aerodynamic solutions in the sleek and powerful lines typical of our cars. The interiors of our cars seek to balance functionality, aesthetics and comfort. Our cockpits are designed to maximize the driving experience, more sporty or more comfortable, depending on the model through an ergonomic layout of all main controls clustered on the steering wheel, and our cars’ interiors boast elegant and sophisticated trims and 47 details. A guiding principle of our design is that each new model represents a clear departure from prior models and introduces new and distinctive aesthetic elements, delivering constant innovation within the furrow of tradition. For the design of our cars we have relied historically on Italian coachbuilders such as Carrozzeria Touring, Vignale, Scaglietti and especially Pininfarina. The privileged partnership with Pininfarina, spanning over six decades, has helped define Ferrari’s design language and has established Ferrari at the forefront of design advance and excellence. Throughout the years this has been recognized repeatedly by a long series of awards being bestowed upon Ferrari road cars. In 2010 we established the Ferrari Design Centre, our in-house design department, in order to improve our control over the design process and ensure long-term continuity of the Ferrari style. Its mission is to define and evolve the stylistic direction of the marque, imprinting all new products with a modern stamp, according to a futuristic, uncompromised vision. The name and logo “Ferrari Design” denotes all concepts and works from Ferrari Design Centre (see “ -Intellectual Property ”). Ferrari Design handles all aspects of automotive styling for the Ferrari road cars product range, encompassing the styling of all bodywork, external components and interior trim, applied to series production models for the GT and Sports car range special editions, limited editions, one-off models, concept cars and some track-only models. Ferrari Design also includes a color & trim team which handles the choice of materials and finishes for both exterior and interior trim and, in addition, is responsible for the Tailor Made program in conjunction with the product marketing department. Ferrari Design is also regularly involved with the styling and conceptual definition of Ferrari branded products produced by our licensees (see “ Brand Activities ”). The department is organized as an integrated automotive design studio, employing a total workforce of approximately 90 people (both full-time workers and external contractors) including designers, 3D surfacing operators, physical modelers and graphic artists. It operates a modeling studio fully equipped with 5-axis milling machines with the capacity to develop various full-scale models (interior and exterior) in parallel. Ferrari Design Centre entirely designed our most recent cars, such as the FXX K Evo, the Ferrari Portofino, the 812 Superfast, and also the GTC4Lusso, the GTC4Lusso T, the F12tdf, the 488 Spider, the 488 GTB, the 488 Challenge, the FXX K, the LaFerrari, the LaFerrari Aperta and the limited-series J50, while it designed other current range models, such as the F12berlinetta, in collaboration with Pininfarina. Although our collaboration with Pininfarina is still active with regard to certain special models and fuori serie , we expect that the design and development of most of our future models will be carried out primarily by Ferrari Design Centre. During the 8 years of activity of the Ferrari Design Centre, our cars have been granted several renowned design awards, including, among the most recent: • 812 Superfast : Chicago Good Design Award (2017) • J50 : Red Dot Best of the Best (2017); Chicago Good Design Award (2017) • LaFerrari Aperta : Honourable Mention - Sport, Performance and Innovation, International Compasso d’Oro Award (2017); Red Dot Design Award (2017) • GTC4Lusso : iF Gold Design Award (2017); Red Dot Design Award (2017); Most Beautiful Supercar of the Year  - International Automobile Festival Paris (2017); Chicago Good Design Award (2017) • 458 MM Speciale : iF Design Award (2017); Red Dot Design Award (2017) • 488 GTB : Red Dot Best of the Best (2016); iF Design Award (2016) • 488 Spider : iF Design Award (2016); Autonis Design Award (Auto Motor und Sport, D) - Beste Design - Neuheit: Cabrios (2016); Chicago Good Design Award (2016) • F12tdf : Chicago Good Design Award (2016) • FXX K : Red Dot Best of the Best (2015), iF Gold Award (2016); Compasso d’Oro ADI (2016) • LaFerrari : Red Dot Design Award (2015); Best Cars - Coupé Category, Motor Presse Iberia Design of the Year (2015) • California T : Red Dot Design Award (2015) The new Ferrari Design Centre will be completed in Maranello in the first half of 2018. Sitting at the heart of the industrial complex, the new facility will cover more than 5,600 square meters distributed over four levels housing the main design office, a fully-equipped model making studio and a vast indoor/outdoor presentation space on the top floor. Additionally, the new building will host the Atelier and Tailor Made department to engage clients with Ferrari’s rich personalization services. The architectural concept of the building aims to reflect the symbolic value of Ferrari’s advanced design process, drawing upon the interaction between digital technologies and the best Italian handmade craftsmanship tradition. 48 Product Development Our product development process is highly structured with the aim of allowing us to respond quickly to market demand and technological breakthroughs and to maintain our position at the top end of the market for car performance and luxury. Our technology team is comprised of approximately 750 engineers and technicians at December 31, 2017 . All of our cars are designed and engineered in Italy, at our factories in Maranello and Modena (Carrozzeria Scaglietti). Our product development includes innovation programs, components programs and car programs, with regular management reviews and detailed cycle milestones. Our components programs are intended to ensure technological innovation and support the development of future models rather than to create an “off the shelf” catalog of available components. All our cars are designed and manufactured based on two highly modular architectures incorporating front and mid-rear engines respectively. This allows for flexible manufacturing at low volumes and easy adaptation to different models with limited additional investment. Our architectures utilize a number of common structures, reducing tooling investment for new model production. When developing a new platform, we focus on innovation, leveraging on our collaboration with the select research centers and universities, and flexibility, allowing us to respond efficiently to potentially varied market demand. The flexibility of our platforms enables us to introduce our highly innovative contents on a wide range of models while, at the same time, reducing the fixed costs connected to the use of multiple platforms. Consistent with our mission to develop cutting edge sports and GT cars, our product development efforts continually focus on improving core components, such as the powertrain, car dynamics, and the use of materials such as special aluminum alloys and carbon fiber (see “ —Design, Development and Manufacturing—Production Process ”). The expertise we acquired in these fields has recently guided our efforts to combine improved performance with reductions in CO 2 emissions. In recent years, calls for CO 2 emissions reductions have come from regulatory initiatives as well as market demand. LaFerrari is an example of such efforts, and we believe it shows our ability to apply our core mechanical know-how to new and expanding fields such as hybrid technology. Until 2017, we applied a development cycle for our range models which included “modified” or “M” models that incorporated certain elements of their predecessor models with relevant modifications not only for aesthetic updates but also for key technological improvements. As a result of the progressive implementation of a broadened and hybridized product portfolio we are converging our models into common platforms that will provide additional flexibility to manage propulsion systems and their subsequent evolution and will be aimed at targeting multiple elements such as weight reduction, increased performance, contents and technological adaptations in connection with market regulations. We also run specific programs for our most critical components, independently from the development of new car models. This is the case of our engines, which we manufacture according to cycle milestones not necessarily connected with the release of a new car model. We have also been producing engines exclusively for Maserati. In 2011 we started the production of the F160 3.0-liter V6 Turbo, and since 2016 we also produce the F161 V6. In 2017 , we produced approximately 46,000 engines for Maserati. (See “ —Manufacturing of Engines for Maserati ”). Many of our components, such as those relating to transmission, power steering, navigation systems and the instrument cluster, are co-designed by us and our suppliers based on our specifications. Our research and development operations constantly focus on innovating our cars’ concept and package, powertrains design, car architecture and components development. (See “ —Research and Development ”). Procurement We source a variety of components (including transmissions, brakes, driving-safety systems, navigation systems, mechanical, electrical and electronic, plastic components as well as castings and tires), raw materials (aluminum, and precious metals including palladium and rhodium), supplies, utilities, logistics and other services from numerous suppliers. Our focus on excellence, in terms of luxury and performance, require us to select suppliers and partners that are able to meet our high standards. For the sourcing of certain key components with highly technological specifications, we have developed strongly synergic relationships with some of our suppliers, which we consider “key strategic innovation partners.” We currently rely on 14 key strategic innovation partners, including GETRAG and Brembo for the supply of transmissions and brakes respectively. We have also developed strong relationships with other industrial partners for bodyworks and chassis manufacturing and for powertrain and transmissions, among other things. Pursuant to our make-or-buy strategy, we generally retain production in-house whenever we have an interest in preserving or developing technological know-how or when we 49 believe that outsourcing would impair the efficiency and flexibility of our production process. Therefore, we continue to invest in the skills and processes required for low-volume production of components that we believe improve product quality. For the year ended December 31, 2017 , the purchases from our ten largest suppliers by value accounted for approximately 20 percent of total procurement costs, and no supplier accounted for more than ten percent of our total procurement costs. We recognize the contribution of our suppliers to our success through various initiatives, including “Key Innovation Partners”, events devoted to Ferrari’s suppliers who displayed particular excellence or innovative flair. Production Process Our production facilities are located in Maranello and in Modena, Italy (see “