Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Non-GAAP Financial Measures. ” Whilst broadening our product portfolio to target a larger customer base, we continue to pursue a low volume production strategy in order to maintain a reputation for exclusivity and scarcity among purchasers of our cars and we carefully manage our production volumes and delivery waiting lists to promote this reputation. We divide our regional markets into EMEA, Americas, Mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan and Rest of APAC, representing respectively 45.7 percent , 32.4 percent , 7.5 percent and 14.4 percent of units shipped in 2018 . We focus our marketing and promotion efforts in the investments we make in our racing activities, in particular Scuderia Ferrari’s participation in the Formula 1 World Championship, which is one of the most watched annual sports series in the world, with over 490 million television unique viewers in 2018 (based on a new viewer calculation methodology applied by Formula 1 in the 2018 season) (Source: Formula 1 Press Office) . Although our most recent Formula 1 world title was in 2008, we continuously enhance our focus on Formula 1 activities with the goal of improving recent racing results and restoring our historical position as the premier racing team in Formula 1. We believe that these activities support the strength and awareness of our brand among motor enthusiasts, clients and the general public. We license the Ferrari brand to a selected number of producers and retailers of luxury and lifestyle goods. In addition, we design, source and sell Ferrari-branded products through a network of 18 Ferrari-owned stores and 17 franchised stores (including 5 Ferrari Store Junior), as well as on our website. As one of the world’s most recognized premium luxury brands, we believe we are well positioned to selectively expand the presence of the Ferrari brand in attractive and growing lifestyle categories consistent with our image, including sportswear, watches, accessories, consumer electronics and theme parks which, we believe, enhance the brand experience of our loyal clients and Ferrari enthusiasts. We will continue focusing our efforts on protecting and enhancing the value of our brand to preserve our strong financial profile and participate in the premium luxury market growth. We intend to selectively pursue controlled and profitable growth in existing and emerging markets while expanding the Ferrari brand to carefully selected lifestyle categories. 24 Industry Overview Within the luxury goods market, we define our target market for luxury performance cars as two-door cars powered by engines producing more than 500 hp and selling at a retail price in excess of Euro 150,000 (including VAT). The luxury performance car market historically has followed relatively closely growth patterns in the broader luxury market. The luxury performance car market is generally affected by global macroeconomic conditions and, although we and certain other manufacturers have proven relatively resilient, general downturns can have a disproportionate impact on sales of luxury goods in light of the discretionary nature of consumer spending in this market. Furthermore, because of the emotional nature of the purchasing decision, economic confidence and factors such as expectations regarding future income streams as well as the social acceptability of luxury goods may impact sales. Following the sharp recession of 2008-2009, the luxury performance car market has been resilient to further economic downturns and stagnation in the broader economy, also a result of the increase of new product launches. A sustained period of wealth creation in several Asian countries and, to a lesser extent, in the Americas, has led to an expanding population of potential consumers of luxury goods. Developing consumer preferences in the Asian markets, where the newly affluent are increasingly embracing western brands of luxury products, have also led to higher demand for cars in our segment, which are all produced by established European manufacturers. Additionally, the growing appetite of younger affluent purchasers for luxury performance cars has led to new entrants, which in turn has resulted in higher sales overall in the market. Unlike in other segments of the broader luxury market, however, in the luxury performance car market, a significant portion of demand is driven by new product launches. The market share of individual producers fluctuates over time reflecting the timing of product launches. New launches tend to drive sales volumes even in difficult market environments because the novelty, exclusivity and excitement of a new product is capable of creating and capturing its own demand from clients. • Ferrari and Luxury Performance Car Industry data are updated to December 31, 2018. • Data for the Luxury Performance Car Industry include all two door GT and sports cars with power above 500hp, and retail price above Euro 150,000 (including VAT) sold by Aston Martin, Audi, Bentley, Ferrari, Ford, Honda/Acura, Lamborghini, McLaren, Mercedes Benz, Porsche and Rolls-Royce. • Ferrari data based on internal information for the 22 top countries (excluding Middle East countries) for Ferrari annual registrations and sales (which accounted for approximately 87% of the total Ferrari shipments in 2018). • Data for the Luxury Performance Car Industry based on units registered (in Brazil, Japan, Taiwan, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Switzerland, Italy, Spain, Sweden, Netherlands, Belgium and Austria) or sold (in USA, South Korea, Thailand, Mainland China, Russia, Australia, New Zealand, 25 Singapore and Indonesia). Source: USA: US Maker Data Club, Brazil-JATO; Austria-OSZ; Belgium-FEBIAC; France-SIV; Germany-KBA; UK-SMMT; Italy-UNRAE; Netherlands-VWE; Spain-TRAFICO; Sweden-BranschData; Switzerland-ASTRA; Mainland China-China Automobile Industry Association-DataClub; Russia-AEBRUS; Taiwan-Ministry of Transportation and Communications; Australia-VFACTS-S; Japan-JAIA; Indonesia-GAIKINDO; New Zealand-VFACTS; Singapore-LTA, MTA (Land Transport Authority, Motor Trader Associations); South Korea-KAIDA; Thailand -Department of Land Transportation The luxury performance car market has now exceeded pre-crisis levels. As shown in the chart above, our volumes in recent years have proven less volatile than our competitors’. We believe this is due to our strategy of maintaining low volumes compared to demand, as well as the higher number of models in our range and our more frequent product launches compared to our competitors. In 2018, our volumes in the largest 22 markets were substantially in line with 2017, primarily driven by contribution from our range models. We had a market share of 17 percent in the luxury performance car market; with 19 percent of market share in the sports car segment and 14.5 percent of market share in the GT segment. The chart below sets forth our market shares in 2018 based on volumes in our largest 22 markets by geographical area. • Ferrari and Luxury Performance Car Industry data are updated to December 31, 2018. • Data for the Luxury Performance Car Industry include all two door GT and sports cars with power above 500hp, and retail price above Euro 150,000 (including VAT) sold by Aston Martin, Audi, Bentley, Ferrari, Ford, Lamborghini, McLaren, Mercedes Benz, Porsche and Rolls-Royce. • Ferrari data based on internal information for the 22 top countries (excluding Middle East countries) for Ferrari annual registrations and sales (which accounted for approximately 87% of the total Ferrari shipments in 2018). • Data for the Luxury Performance Car Industry based on units registered (Brazil, Japan, Taiwan, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Switzerland, Italy, Spain, Sweden, Netherlands, Belgium and Austria) or sold (in USA, South Korea, Thailand, Mainland China, Russia, Australia, New Zealand, Singapore and Indonesia). Source: USA: US Maker Data Club, Brazil-JATO; Austria-OSZ; Belgium-FEBIAC; France-SIV; Germany-KBA; UK-SMMT; Italy-UNRAE; Netherlands-VWE; Spain-TRAFICO; Sweden-BranschData; Switzerland-ASTRA; Mainland China-China Automobile Industry Association-DataClub; Russia-AEBRUS; Taiwan-Ministry of Transportation and Communications; Australia-VFACTS-S; Japan-JAIA; Indonesia-GAIKINDO; New Zealand-VFACTS; Singapore-LTA, MTA (Land Transport Authority, Motor Trader Associations); South Korea-KAIDA; Thailand -Department of Land Transportation. • Ferrari is market leader in several countries, including Mainland China, Japan and Taiwan, among others. While we monitor our market share as an indicator of our brand appeal, we do not regard market share in the luxury performance market as particularly relevant as compared to other segments of the automotive industry. We are not focused on market share as a performance metric. Instead, we deliberately manage our supply relative to demand, to defend and promote our brand exclusivity and premium pricing. Competition Competition in the luxury performance car market is concentrated in a fairly small number of producers, including both large automotive companies that own luxury brands as well as small producers exclusively focused on luxury cars, like us. The luxury performance car market includes sports cars and GT cars. In relation to sports cars our models are the 488 GTB, the 488 Spider and the 812 Superfast, as well as our latest special series models, the 488 Pista and 488 Pista Spider, and our principal competitors are Lamborghini, McLaren, Ford, Honda, 26 Porsche, Mercedes, Aston Martin and Audi. In relation to GT our models are the Ferrari Portofino, the GTC4Lusso and the GTC4Lusso T, and our principal competitors are Rolls-Royce, Bentley, Aston Martin and Mercedes. In recent years, the market has shifted somewhat with an increased focus on the GT cars market and the lower priced range of the sports car market, with larger automotive groups expanding their offering of premium cars to enter the luxury performance car market. Competition in the luxury performance car market is driven by the strength of the brand and the appeal of the products in terms of performance, styling, novelty and innovation as well as on the manufacturers’ ability to renew its product offerings regularly in order to continue to stimulate customer demand. Larger automotive groups with a product offering in the luxury performance car market typically have larger financial resources compared to the small luxury car producers and therefore may have more flexibility in planning for product launches and capital spending over time. Competition among similarly positioned luxury performance cars is also driven by price and total cost of ownership. We believe that the resilience of the value of our cars after a period of ownership is an important competitive factor because it decreases the total cost of ownership for our clients and promotes repeat purchases. Sports and GT Range, Special Series and Icona: Ferrari Line-Up Strategic Pillars Our product offering comprises four main pillars: the sports range, the GT range, special series and Icona. Our current product range includes three sports cars, three GT cars and two special series cars, as well as two Icona cars (introduced in September 2018). We target end clients seeking high performance cars with distinctive design and state of the art technology. Within these parameters, we offer different models to meet our clients’ varying needs and to differentiate our line-up from that of other manufacturers, ranging from the exceptional performance of our sports cars to the luxury and drivability of our GT cars. Our diversified product offering includes different architectures (such as front-engine and mid-rear engine), engine sizes (V8 and V12), body styles (such as coupes and spiders), and seating (2 seaters, 2+2 seaters and 4 seaters). We are also actively engaged in after sales activities driven, among other things, by the objective of preserving and extending the market value of the cars we sell. We believe our cars’ performance in terms of value preservation after a period of ownership significantly exceeds that of any other brand in the luxury car segment. High residual value is important to the primary market because clients, when purchasing our cars, take into account the expected resale value of the car in assessing the overall cost of ownership. Furthermore, a higher residual value potentially lowers the cost for the owner to switch to a new model thereby supporting client loyalty and promoting repeat purchases. 27 The charts below set forth the percentage of our unit shipments (excluding the XX Programme, racing cars, Fuori Serie and one-off cars) for the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 by strategic pillar: __________________________ (*) Includes shipments of the LaFerrari and LaFerrari Aperta. (**) Shipments of Icona cars to commence in 2019. 28 The table and charts below set forth our unit shipments for the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , by geographic market: (Number of cars and % of total cars) For the years ended December 31, 2018 % 2017 % 2016 % EMEA UK 981 10.6 % 843 10.0 % 769 9.6 % Germany 803 8.7 % 710 8.5 % 675 8.4 % Italy 479 5.2 % 417 5.0 % 364 4.5 % France 399 4.3 % 346 4.1 % 306 3.8 % Switzerland 380 4.1 % 339 4.0 % 333 4.2 % Middle East (1) 326 3.5 % 331 3.9 % 439 5.5 % Other EMEA (2) 859 9.3 % 751 9.0 % 724 9.1 % Total EMEA 4,227 45.7 % 3,737 44.5 % 3,610 45.1 % Americas (3) 3,000 32.4 % 2,811 33.5 % 2,687 33.5 % Mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan 695 7.5 % 617 7.3 % 619 7.7 % Rest of APAC (4) 1,329 14.4 % 1,233 14.7 % 1,098 13.7 % Total 9,251 100.0 % 8,398 100.0 % 8,014 100.0 % __________________________ (1) Middle East includes the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Lebanon, Qatar, Oman and Kuwait. (2) Rest of EMEA includes Africa and the other European markets not separately identified. (3) Americas includes the United States of America, Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean and Central and South America. (4) Rest of APAC mainly includes Japan, Australia, Singapore, Indonesia and South Korea. Sports Range Our sports cars are characterized by compact bodies, a design guided by performance and aerodynamics, and often benefit from technologies initially developed for our Formula 1 single-seaters. They favor performance over comfort, seeking to provide a driver with an immediate response and superior handling, leveraging state of the art vehicle dynamics components and controls. In our sports car class, we offer three models: two of which are equipped with mid-rear V8 engines, namely the 488 GTB (with 670 hp) and the 488 Spider (with 670 hp); and one equipped with a front V12 engine, the 812 Superfast (with 800 hp). GT Range Our GT cars, while maintaining the performance expected of a Ferrari, are characterized by more refined interiors with a higher focus on comfort and quality of life on-board. In our GT class, we offer two models equipped with our V8 engine, the Ferrari Portofino (with 600 hp) and the GTC4Lusso T (with 610 hp), the first Ferrari 4 seater equipped with a V8 turbo engine. We also offer one GT model equipped with our V12 engine, the GTC4Lusso (with 690 hp), our sport-luxury 4 seater and 4 wheel drive. 29 Special Series We also from time to time design, engineer and produce special series cars which can be limited in time or volume and are based on our range models but introduce novel product concepts. These cars are characterized by significant hardware and software mechanical modifications designed to enhance performance and drivability. Our special series cars are particularly targeted to collectors and, from a commercial and product development standpoint, they facilitate the transition from existing to new range models. Our current special series cars are the 488 Pista, powered by a 720 hp V8 engine, and its retractable hard top version, the 488 Pista Spider. Icona In September 2018, we introduced a new pillar of our product portfolio: the Icona, a unique concept which takes inspiration from the iconic cars of our history and reinterprets them in a modern fashion, pairing timeless design of the past with state-of-the-art materials and technology. The first examples of this strictly limited-edition product line-up are the Ferrari Monza SP1 and SP2 inspired by the classic collectible barchetta cars, 750Monza and 860Monza, and presented at our Capital Markets Day in September 2018. Limited Edition Hypercars, Fuori Serie and One-Offs In line with our tradition of hypercars starting with the 288GTO in 1984 through to the Enzo in 2002 and the LaFerrari Aperta, our latest hypercar which we launched in 2016, we also produce limited edition hypercars. These are the highest expression of Ferrari road car performance at the time and are often the forerunners of technological innovations for future range models, with innovative features and futuristic design. Furthermore, in connection with certain events or celebrations, we also launch very limited edition cars (our fuori serie ). These models can be offered globally, or may be limited to specific local markets. Based on an exotic product concept not available on the standard Ferrari model range, these cars feature completely unique design and specifications compared to our other models. Finally, in order to meet the varying needs of our most loyal and discerning clients, we also from time to time produce one-off models. While based on the chassis and equipped with engines of one of the current range models for homologation and registration purposes, these cars reflect the exact exterior and interior design specifications requested by the clients, and are produced as a single, unique car. Some of the most iconic models to have emerged from our One-Off program include the SP12 EC (inspired by the 512 BB, the F12 TRS (a radical two-seat roadster created on the platform of the F12berlinetta in 2014), the SP38 (a superlative mid-rear V8 turbo taking inspiration from the legendary Ferrari F40), the 458MM Speciale (the last mid rear model with a V8 natural aspirated engine in 2016) and the SP3JC (the only one-off made using the F12tdf in 2018). The program is expanding due to increasing demand. Track Cars Based on our sports and GT cars, we also develop and manufacture special racing cars. These cars are not registered for use on the road and may only be used on track in competitive and non-competitive race events. This activity is managed by the Attività Sportive GT Department which includes: Competizioni GT (GT racing) and Corse Clienti (the Ferrari Challenge one-make series, the Corso Pilota driving courses, the XX Programmes and the F1 Clienti activity). Ferrari Challenge Trofeo Pirelli - 488 Challenge Ferrari Challenge is the biggest one-make series in the world. The series was established in 1993 and the events are FIA approved, thus ensuring very high safety standards and dependable organization. The championship was an immediate success: the formula for the event ensures that cars are very closely matched, thus putting the focus on the drivers. There are three main series: Europe (which is the oldest), North America and Asia-Pacific. A brand new national championship will be launched in the United Kingdom in 2019. The 488 Challenge marks the 25th anniversary of the Ferrari Challenge and was launched in December 2016 at the Finali Mondiali in Daytona. The 488 Challenge is the first equipped with a turbo engine to get on track in the Ferrari one-make series. It is the most powerful car in the Challenge history thanks to 670 hp from the V8 3.9-liter engine derived from the 488 GTB. Ferrari’s patented Slip Slip Angle Control software is installed for the first time on a Challenge car, improving the longitudinal acceleration through bends by 4.2 percent. Production started in 2017. 30 Competizioni GT (GT racing) The 488 GTE/GTLM and 488 GT3/GTD models are sold to clients and private teams as racing cars specifically developed for professional racing with the aim to compete in the FIA World Endurance Championship and in several GT International series, as well as historical races such as the Daytona 24 Hours and Le Mans 24 Hours. Since beginning competition in 2016, the 488 GTE/GTLM and 488 GT3/GTD have won several competitions, including, among others, the Pirelli World Challenge in the SprintX division as well as the Petit Le Mans in the GTD class (488 GT3). In 2019, Competizioni GT will launch a new non-competitive track activity, Club Competizioni GT, dedicated to clients who own older and present day GT cars. XX Programme Since 2005, we have been operating our XX Programme, a non-competitive “owner-test drivers” program organized at some of the best known race tracks in Europe, Asia and North America. Through the XX Programme, we test advanced solutions and technological innovations by providing a select group of clients the opportunity to drive cars enhanced with superior power and performance characteristics. As part of this program, we have developed the FXX K, based on LaFerrari, shipments of which started in the second quarter of 2015. Although conceived as a track-only model, the FXX K was specially styled by Ferrari Design Centre working closely with the aerodynamics engineers. The FXX K received the Red Dot “Best of the Best” Design Award in 2015, one of the most recognized design awards in the world. The FXX K EVO was launched in October 2017 at the Finali Mondiali in Mugello. F1 Clienti Introduced in 2003, the F1 Clienti program allows a limited number of exclusive Ferrari lovers to both purchase previously-used Scuderia Ferrari Formula 1 cars and experience them in full. Formula 1 cars that we sell as part of this program include recent cars of the 21 st century, such as those driven by Kimi Raikkonen and Felipe Massa, and cars from decades ago, such as the 412 T2 of 1995, the last Formula 1 car to be powered by a 12-cylinder engine which is now back on the racetrack thanks to F1 Clienti. Owners can focus exclusively on the driving experience, while the F1 Clienti program can arrange for the cars to be kept at Maranello for safekeeping, where F1 technicians and mechanics perform regular maintenance of the cars. The F1 Clienti program includes a series of events throughout the year that enable customers to experience the pleasure of driving on prestigious tracks in front of a live crowd. Corso Pilota Driving Courses Initiated in 1993, Corso Pilota driving courses enable Ferrari customers to experience and appreciate the full formidable performance of the Ferrari models in a safe environment. It provides an opportunity to attend various, increasingly technical and complex courses that begin with the “Sport”, “Avanzato”, and “Evoluzione” levels, and culminate with the “Challenge” course. Led by professional instructors with years of Ferrari driving experience, the courses are designed to progressively develop participants’ driving style and skills so that they will obtain sufficient mastery to compete safely in real Challenge Championship races. The selection and preparation of the Ferrari cars used for the courses is of fundamental importance and the current fleet consists of 488 GTB, 812 Superfast and 488 Challenge models. 31 Personalization Offer All of our models feature highly customizable interior and exterior options, which are included in our personalization catalogue. Some of these options include carbon fiber wheels, alternative brake caliper colors, parking cameras, MagneRide dual mode suspension, sport exhaust systems, panoramic roof option, various door panel configurations, steering wheel inserts and state of the art custom high fidelity sound systems. With our “Special Equipment” program, we offer clients additional customization choices for their cars. Our specialists are able to guide clients in creating a very customized car through a wide catalog of special items such as different types of rare leathers, custom stitching, special paints, special carbon fiber, and personalized luggage sets designed to match the car’s interior. The “Tailor Made” program provides an additional level of personalization in accordance with the expectations of our clients. A dedicated Ferrari designer assists clients in selecting and applying virtually any specific design element chosen by the client. Our clients benefit from a large selection of finishes and accessories in an array of different materials (ranging from cashmere to denim), treatments and hues. To assist our clients’ choice we also offer three collections inspired by Ferrari’s own tradition: Scuderia (taking its lead from our sporting history), Classica (bringing a modern twist to the styling cues of our signature GT models) and Inedita (showcasing more experimental and innovation-led personalization). The “One-off” program is the maximum level of personalization and exclusivity. See “ —Limited Edition Hypercars, Fuori Serie and One-Offs ” above for more details. Ferrari is developing new initiatives at all levels of the personalization offer in order to improve the customer experience, to differentiate from competitors and to maximize the potential of the personalization business. Some of the main initiatives will include: • a completely new generation of car configurator tools; • new Atelier and Tailor Made facilities in Maranello; and • the opening of a Tailor Made Center in New York 32 Design Design is a fundamental and distinctive aspect of our products and our brand. Our designers, modelers and engineers work together to create car bodies that incorporate the most innovative aerodynamic solutions in the sleek and powerful lines typical of our cars. The interiors of our cars seek to balance functionality, aesthetics and comfort. Cockpits are designed to maximize the driving experience, tending towards more sporty or more comfortable, depending on the model. The interiors of our vehicles boast elegant and sophisticated trims and details that enhance the ergonomic layout of all main controls, many of which are clustered on the steering wheel. A guiding principle of our design is that each new model represents a clear departure from prior models and introduces new and distinctive aesthetic elements, delivering constant innovation within the furrow of tradition. For the design of our cars we have relied historically on Italian coachbuilders such as Carrozzeria Touring, Vignale, Scaglietti and Pininfarina. These partnerships helped Ferrari in defining its design language at the forefront of design advance. Throughout the years this area of excellence has been recognized repeatedly by a long series of awards being bestowed upon Ferrari road cars. In 2010 we established the Ferrari Design Centre, our in-house design department, with the objective of improving control over the entire design process and ensuring long-term continuity of the Ferrari style. The mission of the Ferrari Design Centre is to define and evolve the stylistic direction of the marque, imprinting all new products with a modern stamp, according to a futuristic, uncompromised vision. The name and logo “Ferrari Design” denotes all concepts and works from Ferrari Design Centre (see “ —Intellectual Property ”). Ferrari Design handles all aspects of automotive styling for the Ferrari road cars product range, encompassing the styling of all bodywork, external components and interior trim, applied to series production models for the GT and sports car range special editions, limited editions, Iconas, one-off models, concept cars and some track-only models. Ferrari Design also includes a Color & Trim unit which manages the choice of materials and finishes for both exterior and interior trim and, in addition, is responsible for the Tailor Made program in conjunction with the Product Marketing department. Ferrari Design is also regularly involved in the styling and conceptual definition of Ferrari branded products produced by our licensees (see “ —Brand Activities ”). Ferrari Design is organized as an integrated automotive design studio, employing a total workforce of approximately 90 people (full-time workers as well as external contractors) including designers, 3D surfacing operators, physical modelers and graphic artists. It operates a modeling studio fully equipped with 5-axis milling machines with the capacity to develop various full-scale models (interior and exterior) in parallel. The new building of the Ferrari Design Centre was opened in September 2018 and is our first facility fully dedicated to the Ferrari Design. Sitting at the heart of the Ferrari headquarters in Maranello, the building covers more than 5,600 square meters over four levels and houses the design offices, a fully-equipped model making studio and a vast indoor/outdoor presentation space on the top floor. Additionally, the new building hosts two Ateliers and the Tailor Made department to engage clients with Ferrari’s rich personalization services. The project aims to reflect the symbolic value of Ferrari’s advanced design process, drawing upon the interaction between digital technologies and the best Italian handmade craftsmanship tradition. The new building helps to improve the synergies between design studios, the physical modelling area and virtual modelling specialists, by bringing them together in a highly integrated and technological environment. Ferrari Design Centre entirely designed our most recent cars, such as the Monza SP1 and SP2, the 488 Pista, the 488 Pista Spider, the FXX K EVO, the Ferrari Portofino, the 812 Superfast, the GTC4Lusso, the F12tdf, the 488 GTB, the 488 Spider, the 488 Challenge, the FXX K, the LaFerrari, the LaFerrari Aperta and the limited-series J50, as well as one-off cars including the F12 TRS, the 458MM Speciale and the SP38. During its 9 years of activity, the Ferrari Design Centre has received prestigious design awards for several cars it has designed, among which: • SP38 : Design Award for Concept Cars & Prototypes - Concorso d’Eleganza Villa d’Este 2018 • Ferrari Portofino : Red Dot Best of the Best Award (2018) • 812 Superfast: Red Dot Design Award (2018) • FXX K EVO: Red Dot Design Award (2018) • J50: iF Gold Design Award (2018) • LaFerrari Aperta: iF Design Award (2018) • 812 Superfast : Chicago Good Design Award (2017) 33 • J50 : Red Dot Best of the Best (2017); Chicago Good Design Award (2017) • LaFerrari Aperta : Honourable Mention - Sport, Performance and Innovation, International Compasso d’Oro Award (2017); Red Dot Design Award (2017) • GTC4Lusso : iF Gold Design Award (2017); Red Dot Design Award (2017); Most Beautiful Supercar of the Year - International Automobile Festival Paris (2017); Chicago Good Design Award (2017) • 458 MM Speciale : iF Design Award (2017); Red Dot Design Award (2017) • 488 GTB : Red Dot Best of the Best (2016); iF Design Award (2016) • 488 Spider : iF Design Award (2016); Autonis Design Award (Auto Motor und Sport, D) - Beste Design - Neuheit: Cabrios (2016); Chicago Good Design Award (2016) • F12tdf : Chicago Good Design Award (2016) • FXX K : Red Dot Best of the Best (2015), iF Gold Award (2016); Compasso d’Oro ADI (2016) Product Development Product development and technological innovation Our development efforts take into account the three defining dimensions of Ferrari cars; performance; versatility and comfort; and driving emotions. Performance reflects features such as weight, horsepower, torque, aerodynamic efficiency, acceleration, and maximum speed, which all contribute to determine the lap time on track. We strive to ensure that every Ferrari is the best performing car in its segment. Versatility derives from spaciousness, accessibility and mode of traction, including rear‑wheel‑drive or all‑wheel‑drive and, in future, electric-powered driving. Comfort results from the ease of the riding experience and on board interface. Regulation will affect development in this area - for example, a prescribed electric range may be required in future to access city centers. Driving emotions is a key differentiator of Ferrari cars. There are three elements to driving emotions: sound, perceived acceleration and responsiveness of the car. Sound is an important part of the experience and very involving for the driver.  Perceived acceleration is the driver’s subjective impression of the car acceleration beyond the actual 0-100 or 0-200 km/h performance measured in the car technical specifications. Responsiveness requires that every driver command lead to a direct and controllable reaction of the car. These three dimensions variably interact in our sports and GT cars. As we work on the future product range, we strive to improve on each of those dimensions, focusing for sports cars on performance and driving emotions, and for GT cars on versatility and comfort on board and fun to drive - driving emotions. 34 Innovation principles We believe there are five key guidelines to innovation at Ferrari: focus on the three key defining dimensions described above, leveraging on Formula 1 know how, first mover positioning in core areas such powertrain and aerodynamics, customization of technologies available on the market (such as the turbo technology) and pursuit of synergies (arising from common architectures within our range). In addition to these internally driven factors, regulation is key in determining the direction of innovation. Combustion engines We believe internal combustion engines will remain important in Ferrari’s powertrain mix and therefore we continue to invest significantly in new combustion engine technologies. In 2018 we won the “Engine of the Year” award for the newest edition of our V8 turbocharged engine mounted on the 488 Pista. Going forward, Ferrari will have three engine families: we will maintain and develop the V12 naturally‑aspirated engine family, long the pinnacle of Ferrari engines; we will implement the next technological step ups for the V8 family; and we will develop a completely new V6 family based on a specific and innovative architecture. The industry effort to combine greater power outputs with lower emissions and consumption often leads to a higher turbo lag. Through a technological breakthrough, Ferrari has engineered a turbo engine with turbo engine performance but with the response of a naturally‑aspirated engine. For example, the specific power output of the 488 Pista was increased to 184 horsepower without meaningful turbo lag. In the future, we intend to use hybrid technology and Formula 1 technology to increase specific power output without turbo lag. We are deploying considerable resources for the development of hybrid powertrains, which will be mounted on an increasingly larger proportion of our car models; this is intended to improve performance and driving experience while also satisfying customer preferences and regulatory requirements regarding emissions. LaFerrari and LaFerrari Aperta are early examples of our efforts in this field, and we believe they show our ability to apply our core mechanical know-how to new and expanding fields such as hybrid technology. Architecture In addition to engines, the other principal technical area we are focusing on is the architecture. Our architecture covers all principal technical specifications of future Ferrari models. We expect that innovation requirements will arise principally from: 35 the evolution of engine families; the level of hybridization; modes of traction; the number of seats up to a real four-seater; and the body style, which will vary much more significantly than in the past in light of the introduction of the Purosangue. We expect that our core architectures will be the rear‑mid‑engine architecture and the front‑mid‑engine architecture, each comprising several variants. Rear-mid-engine architecture The rear‑mid‑engine architecture is designed to integrate multiple power units with a higher specific power output than the 488 Pista. In this architecture, combustion engines can be combined with an electric motor to realize hybridization, including a battery to enable electric range. In combination, we are developing a new and highly innovative double‑clutch transmission gearbox. Hybridization will impact the weight of engines and therefore we will deploy new lightweight technologies to compensate this impact. Package efficiency will also be key to achieve a compact car that reduces weight and inertia. In order to apply the architecture to different powertrains, the wheelbase may vary. Front-mid-engine architecture The front‑mid‑engine architecture, also a transaxle powertrain concept, is even more flexible than the rear-mid-engine architecture. This architecture will be able to accommodate an all‑wheel‑drive powertrain, will allow for hybridization, and will have a flexible wheelbase suited to a variety of engines as well as seat configurations including two‑seaters and four‑seaters. It will be accessible, spacious and comfortable. Key to this architecture will be the new suspension systems we are developing,  with a high range between comfort and sportiness. New-generation human-machine interface Particularly driven by growth in the GT segment, Ferrari is developing the next generation of human‑machine interface technologies. Using state‑of‑the‑art technologies we will be guided by the Formula 1 derived concept of “eyes on the street, hands on the steering wheel”, for a focused, safe and enjoyable drive. We intend to add several new technologies, including a new head‑up display, a new innovative cluster, a new steering wheel that features new commands and a new infotainment system, as well as tools aimed at positively enhancing the passengers’ experience. Autonomous driving While we do not intend to develop self-driving cars, we will adopt certain features of autonomous driving technology in response to regulatory developments and customer preferences, especially in the GT segment. For example, in 2018 we launched initial functionalities for Advanced Driving Assistant Systems (ADAS) such as predictive breaking and automatic cruise control on current models, and further innovations will be introduced in future models. 36 Ferrari is carefully monitoring the evolution of autonomous driving technologies, including sensors and artificial intelligence, and we will select and customize those innovations compatible with the Ferrari experience. These technologies will also have an important impact on the electronic architecture of our cars. Production and Procurement Production Process Our production facilities are located in Maranello and in Modena, Italy (see “