Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Non-GAAP Financial Measures ”. Whilst broadening our product portfolio to target a larger customer base, we continue to pursue a low volume production strategy in order to maintain a reputation for exclusivity and scarcity among purchasers of our cars and we carefully manage our production volumes and delivery waiting lists to promote this reputation. We divide our regional markets into (i) EMEA, (ii) Americas, (iii) Mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan, and (iv) Rest of APAC, which represented respectively 49.2 percent, 25.4 percent, 8.1 percent and 17.3 percent of units shipped in 2021. The geographical distribution of shipments reflects deliberate allocations driven by the phase-in pace of individual models. We focus our marketing and promotion efforts in the investments we make in our racing activities and in particular, Scuderia Ferrari’s participation in the FIA Formula 1 World Championship, which is the pinnacle of motorsport and is one of the most watched annual sports series in the world, with approximately 445 million unique viewers in 2021 and an average total audience for a Grand Prix weekend of 70.3 million. ( Source: Formula 1 Press Office ). Although our most recent Formula 1 world title was in 2008, we continuously enhance our focus on Formula 1 activities with the goal of improving racing results and restoring our historical position as the premier racing team in Formula 1. We believe that these activities support the strength and awareness of our brand among motor enthusiasts, clients and the general public. As one of the world’s most recognized premium luxury brands, we operate in carefully selected luxury and lifestyle categories consistent with our image. We launched our first fashion collection on June 13, 2021 in Maranello, drawing inspiration from our marque’s style, innovation and performance. We also license the Ferrari brand to a limited number of producers and retailers of luxury and lifestyle sectors, including theme parks that, we believe, enhance the brand experience of our loyal clients and Ferrari enthusiasts. The world of Ferrari can also be experienced in our Ferrari Museum in Maranello and in the Enzo Ferrari Museum in Modena. 28 Our international network of Ferrari Stores consists of 16 Ferrari owned store and 14 franchised stores (including 12 Ferrari Store Junior) where visitors can find our fashion collection as well as on our website. In 2021 we began giving a fresh new look to the stores, starting with our stores in Maranello, Milan, Rome and Los Angeles. On June 15, 2021 we reopened and revitalized our Ristorante Cavallino, which is situated opposite to the entrance of our Maranello factory, while retaining the heritage of this historic location. We continue in our unwavering pursuit of reaching carbon neutrality by 2030, addressing – in addition to our electrification journey – both direct and indirect emissions with a focus on energy and materials. As a further step forward in this process, in 2021 we calculated our carbon footprint considering the emissions related to all of our activities over our entire value chain. Our calculation, based on greenhouse gas protocol methodology, has been certified according to ISO 14064-1:2018 requirements by a third-party and allowed us to determine priority areas for action. We will continue focusing our efforts on protecting and enhancing the value of our brand to preserve our strong financial profile and participate in the growth of the premium luxury market. We intend to pursue controlled and profitable growth in existing and emerging markets while expanding the Ferrari brand to carefully selected lifestyle categories. Industry Overview Within the luxury goods market, we define our target market for luxury performance cars as two-door cars powered by engines producing more than 500 hp and selling at a retail price in excess of Euro 150,000 (including VAT). The luxury performance car market historically has followed relatively closely growth patterns in the broader luxury market. The luxury performance car market is generally affected by global macroeconomic conditions and, although we and certain other manufacturers have proven relatively resilient, general downturns can have a disproportionate impact on sales of luxury goods in light of the discretionary nature of consumer spending in this market. Furthermore, because of the emotional nature of the purchasing decision, economic confidence and factors such as expectations regarding future income streams as well as the social acceptability of luxury goods may impact sales. Following the sharp recession of 2008-2009, the luxury performance car market has been resilient to further economic downturns and stagnation in the broader economy, also a result of the increase of new product launches. A sustained period of wealth creation in several Asian countries and, to a lesser extent, in the Americas, has led to an expanding population of potential consumers of luxury goods. Developing consumer preferences in the Asian markets, where the newly affluent are increasingly embracing western brands of luxury products, have also led to higher demand for cars in our segment, which are all produced by established European manufacturers. In turn, the changing demographic of customers and potential customers is driving an evolution towards luxury performance cars more suited to an urban, daily use. Additionally, the growing appetite of younger affluent purchasers for luxury performance cars has led to new entrants, which in turn has resulted in higher sales overall in the market. In 2021, the luxury performance car market experienced a V-shaped recovery, with Ferrari shipments returning to and surpassing the 2019 pre-pandemic levels while shipments of the overall luxury performance car market partially recovered but remained below the 2019 pre-pandemic levels, after the economic shock experienced in 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The actions taken worldwide for the containment of the pandemic, including widespread vaccination campaigns, enabled Ferrari and some of its main competitors to fully recover and maintain their production capacity. Furthermore, the renewed product offering by several competitors was another key element driving the positive performance of the market. Unlike in other segments of the broader luxury market, in the luxury performance car market, a significant portion of demand is driven by new product launches. The market share of individual producers fluctuates over time reflecting the timing of product launches. New launches tend to drive sales volumes even in difficult market environments because the novelty, exclusivity and excitement of a new product is capable of creating and capturing its own demand from clients. Growing environmental concerns are leading to the implementation of increasingly stringent emissions regulations and an increase in demand for both hybrid and electric vehicles. Cost and limited charging infrastructure are currently limiting factors in the demand for electric vehicles, but advancements in battery technology in coming years are expected to boost sales of hybrid and electric high performance luxury vehicles, although at a slower pace compared to mass market 29 vehicles. The ability to combine driving experience with hybrid and electric technology will be key for the commercial success of high performance luxury vehicles. As shown in the chart below, our volumes in recent years have proven less volatile than our competitors’. We believe this is due to our strategy of maintaining low volumes compared to demand, as well as to the higher number of models in our range and our more frequent product launches compared to our competitors. • Ferrari and Luxury Performance Car Industry data are updated to December 31, 2021. • The commercial criteria we used for evaluation of the Luxury Performance Car Industry include all two door GT and sports cars with power above 500 hp, and retail price above Euro 150,000 (including VAT) sold by Aston Martin, Audi, Bentley, BMW, Ferrari, Ford, Honda/Acura, Lamborghini, Maserati, McLaren, Mercedes Benz, Polestar, Porsche and Rolls-Royce. • Ferrari data based on internal information for the 22 top countries (excluding Middle East countries) for Ferrari annual registrations and sales (which accounted for approximately 86% of the total Ferrari shipments in 2021). • Data for the Luxury Performance Car Industry based on units registered (in Brazil, Japan, Taiwan, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Switzerland, Italy, Poland, Spain, Sweden, Netherlands, Belgium and Austria) or sold (in USA, South Korea, Mainland China, Russia, Australia, New Zealand, Singapore and Indonesia). Source: USA: US Maker Data Club, Brazil-JATO; Austria-OSZ; Belgium-FEBIAC; France-SIV; Germany-KBA; UK-SMMT; Italy-UNRAE; Netherlands-VWE; Poland-CEPiK; Spain-TRAFICO; Sweden-BranschData; Switzerland-ASTRA; Mainland China-China Automobile Industry Association-DataClub; Russia-AEBRUS; Taiwan-Ministry of Transportation and Communications; Australia-VFACTS-S; Japan-JAIA; Indonesia-GAIKINDO; New Zealand-VFACTS; Singapore-LTA, MTA (Land Transport Authority, Motor Trader Associations); South Korea-KAIDA. In 2021, Ferrari volumes in the largest 22 markets increased compared to 2020, primarily driven by contribution from our renewed and enlarged product range. In 2021, we had a market share of 26% in the luxury performance car market; with 30% of market share in the sports car segment and 20% of market share in the GT segment. 30 The chart below sets forth our market shares in 2021 based on volumes in our largest 22 markets by geographical area. • Ferrari and Luxury Performance Car Industry data updated to December 31, 2021. • The commercial criteria we used for evaluation of the Luxury Performance Car Industry include all two door GT and sports cars with power above 500 hp, and retail price above Euro 150,000 (including VAT) sold by Aston Martin, Audi, Bentley, BMW, Ferrari, Ford, Honda/Acura, Lamborghini, Maserati, McLaren, Mercedes Benz, Polestar, Porsche, and Rolls-Royce. • Ferrari data based on internal information for the 22 top countries (excluding Middle East countries) for Ferrari annual registrations and sales (which accounted for approximately 86% of the total Ferrari shipments in 2021). • Data for the Luxury Performance Car Industry based on units registered (Brazil, Japan, Taiwan, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Switzerland, Italy, Poland, Spain, Sweden, Netherlands, Belgium and Austria) or sold (in USA, South Korea, Mainland China, Russia, Australia, New Zealand, Singapore and Indonesia). Source: USA: US Maker Data Club, Brazil-JATO; Austria-OSZ; Belgium-FEBIAC; France-SIV; Germany-KBA; UK-SMMT; Italy-UNRAE; Netherlands-VWE; Poland-CEPiK; Spain-TRAFICO; Sweden-BranschData; Switzerland-ASTRA; Mainland China-China Automobile Industry Association-DataClub; Russia-AEBRUS; Taiwan-Ministry of Transportation and Communications; Australia-VFACTS-S; Japan-JAIA; Indonesia-GAIKINDO; New Zealand-VFACTS; Singapore-LTA, MTA (Land Transport Authority, Motor Trader Associations); South Korea-KAIDA. • Ferrari is market leader in several countries, including France, Italy, Switzerland, UK, USA, Australia, Japan and South Korea, among others. While we monitor our market share as an indicator of our brand appeal, we do not regard market share in the luxury performance market as particularly relevant as compared to other segments of the automotive industry. We are not focused on market share as a performance metric. Instead, we deliberately manage our supply relative to demand, to defend and promote our brand exclusivity and premium pricing. Competition Competition in the luxury performance car market is concentrated in a fairly small number of producers, including both large automotive companies that own luxury brands as well as small producers exclusively focused on luxury cars, like us. The luxury performance car market includes sports cars and GT cars. Our current sports car models are the 812 GTS, the Ferrari F8 Tributo, the Ferrari F8 Spider, the 296 GTB and the SF90 Stradale and the SF90 Spider, our first series production Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicle (PHEV) models. Our principal competitors are Lamborghini, McLaren, Porsche, Mercedes, Aston Martin and Audi. Our current GT range models include the Ferrari Roma and the Ferrari Portofino M, while our main competitors are Rolls-Royce, Bentley, Aston Martin and Mercedes. Competition in the luxury performance car market is driven by the strength of the brand and the appeal of the products in terms of performance, styling, novelty and innovation as well as on the manufacturers’ ability to renew its product offerings regularly in order to continue to stimulate customer demand. Competition among similarly positioned luxury performance cars is also driven by price and total cost of ownership. Resilience of the car value after a period of ownership is an important competitive dimension among similarly positioned luxury cars, as a higher resilience decreases the total cost of ownership and promotes repeat purchases: we believe this is a strong competitive advantage of Ferrari cars. 31 Sports and GT Range, Special Series and Icona: Ferrari Line-Up Strategic Pillars Our product offering comprises four main pillars: the sports range, the GT range, special series and Icona. Our current product range as of the date of this report includes six sports cars (the 812 GTS, the Ferrari F8 Tributo, the Ferrari F8 Spider, the 296 GTB, the SF90 Stradale and the SF90 Spider), two GT cars (the Ferrari Roma and the Ferrari Portofino M), two special series cars (the 812 Competizione and the 812 Competizione A), and three strictly limited edition Icona models (the new Ferrari Daytona SP3, which was presented in November 2021, as well as the Ferrari Monza SP1 and SP2). In 2021 we completed shipments of the 812 Superfast. We target end clients seeking high performance cars with distinctive design and state-of-the-art technology. Our broad model range is designed to fulfill the strategy of “Different Ferrari for different Ferraristi, different Ferrari for different moments”, which means being able to offer a highly differentiated product line-up that can meet the varying needs of new customer segments (in terms of sportiness, comfort, on-board space, design, amongst others) and that can allow our existing clients to use a Ferrari in various moments of their lives. Our diversified product offering includes different architectures (such as front-engine and mid-rear engine), engine sizes (V6, V8 and V12), technologies (atmospheric, turbo-charged, hybrid, electric), body styles (such as coupes, spiders and targa), and seats (2 seaters and 2+ seaters). We are also actively engaged in after sales activities driven, among other things, by the objective of preserving and extending the market value of the cars we sell. We believe our cars’ performance in terms of value preservation after a period of ownership significantly exceeds that of any other brand in the luxury car segment. High residual value is important to the primary market because clients, when purchasing our cars, take into account the expected resale value of the car in assessing the overall cost of ownership. Furthermore, a higher residual value potentially lowers the cost for the owner to switch to a new model thereby supporting client loyalty and promoting repeat purchase. 32 The charts below set forth the percentage of our unit shipments (excluding the XX Programme, racing cars, one-off and pre-owned cars) for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 by pillar: _____________________ (*) Shipments of Icona models commenced in 2019 and contributed to less than 1 percent of our shipments for that year. 33 The table and charts below set forth our unit shipments (1) for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, by geographic market: (Number of cars and % of total cars) For the years ended December 31, 2021 % 2020 % 2019 % EMEA Germany 1,252 11.2 % 995 10.9 % 967 9.5 % UK 996 8.9 % 971 10.6 % 1,120 11.1 % Italy 668 6.0 % 574 6.3 % 559 5.5 % Switzerland 481 4.3 % 456 5.0 % 454 4.5 % France 473 4.2 % 463 5.1 % 452 4.5 % Middle East (2) 334 3.0 % 304 3.3 % 309 3.1 % Other EMEA (3) 1,288 11.6 % 1,055 11.6 % 1,034 10.1 % Total EMEA 5,492 49.2 % 4,818 52.8 % 4,895 48.3 % Americas (4) 2,831 25.4 % 2,325 25.5 % 2,900 28.6 % Mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan 899 8.1 % 456 5.0 % 836 8.3 % Rest of APAC (5) 1,933 17.3 % 1,520 16.7 % 1,500 14.8 % Total 11,155 100.0 % 9,119 100.0 % 10,131 100.0 % __________________________ (1) Excluding the XX Programme, racing cars, one-off and pre-owned cars. (2) Middle East mainly includes the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Lebanon, Qatar, Oman and Kuwait. (3) Other EMEA includes Africa and the other European markets not separately identified. (4) Americas includes the United States of America, Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean and Central and South America. (5) Rest of APAC mainly includes Japan, Australia, Singapore, Indonesia, South Korea, Thailand, India and Malaysia. Sports Range Our sports cars are characterized by compact bodies, a design guided by performance and aerodynamics, and often benefit from technologies initially developed for our Formula 1 single-seaters or Ferrari GT racing activities. They favor performance over comfort, seeking to provide a driver with an immediate response and superior handling, leveraging state-of-the-art vehicle dynamics components and controls. In our sports car class, we offer six models: the SF90 Stradale and SF90 Spider, our first series production cars which feature PHEV technology that combines a V8 engine (780 hp) with three electric motors allowing the car to reach 1,000 hp; the Ferrari F8 Tributo and the Ferrari F8 Spider, equipped with a mid-rear V8 engine (720 hp), 4 time winner of the engine of the year award; the 812 GTS, equipped with a front V12 engine (800 hp) and the 296 GTB, which is the first 6-cylinder engine installed on a Ferrari road car and produces 830 hp total power output delivered by a new 120° V6 engine (663 hp) coupled with an electric motor capable of delivering a further 122 kW (167 hp) – unprecedented performance for a V6 car. 34 GT Range Our GT cars, while maintaining the performance expected of a Ferrari, are characterized by more refined interiors with a higher focus on comfort and on-board life quality. In our GT range, we offer two models equipped with our V8 engine, the Ferrari Roma (620 hp) and the Ferrari Portofino M (620 hp). The following chart depicts the four dimensions of our customer value proposition for our sports and GT range models: Special Series From time to time, we also design, engineer and produce special series cars which can be limited in time or volume and are usually based on our range sports models but introduce novel product concepts. These cars are characterized by significant modifications designed to enhance performance and driving emotions. Our special series cars are particularly targeted to collectors and, from a commercial and product development standpoint, they facilitate the transition from existing to new range models. Following the completion of shipments for the Ferrari 488 Pista and Ferrari 488 Pista Spider in 2020, in 2021 Ferrari launched the 812 Competizione and the 812 Competizione A (830 hp). Respectively a coupe and a targa, the 812 Competizione and the 812 Competizione A represent the pinnacle of our technical expertise and performance with an extraordinary weight to power ratio of 1.79 kg/hp, which puts them at the top of our V12 car category, reaching 0-100 km/h in 2.85 seconds and 0-200 km/h in 7.7 seconds. Icona In September 2018, we introduced a new pillar of our product portfolio: the Icona, a unique concept that takes inspiration from the iconic cars of our history and reinterprets them in a modern fashion, pairing timeless design with state-of-the-art materials and technology. The first examples of this strictly limited-edition product line-up are the Ferrari Monza SP1 and SP2, which are inspired by the classic collectible barchetta cars, the 750 Monza and 860 Monza. In 2021 the Ferrari Daytona SP3 was unveiled. This limited-edition targa takes inspiration from legendary Ferrari sports prototypes of the 1960s and sports a naturally aspirated V12 engine, mid-rear-mounted in typical racing car style. Undisputedly the most iconic of all of Ferrari’s engines, this power unit delivers 840 hp – along with 697 Nm of torque and maximum revs of 9500 rpm – making it the most powerful naturally aspirated road engine ever built by Ferrari. 35 Limited Edition Hypercars and One-Offs In line with our tradition of hypercars starting with the GTO (288 GTO) in 1984 up to the Enzo in 2002 and the LaFerrari Aperta, our latest hypercar launched in 2016, we also produce limited edition hypercars. These are the highest expression of Ferrari road car performance at the time and are often the forerunners of technological innovations for future range models, with innovative features and futuristic design. In order to meet the varying needs of our most loyal and discerning clients, we also produce a very limited number of one-off models. While based on the chassis and equipped with engines of one of the current range models for homologation and registration purposes, these cars reflect the exact exterior and interior design specifications requested by the clients, and are produced as a single, unique car. Some of the most iconic models emerged from our One-Off program include the SP12 EC (inspired by the 512 BB and created in 2011), the F12 TRS (a radical two-seat roadster created on the platform of the F12berlinetta in 2014), the Ferrari SP38 (a superlative mid-rear V8 turbo taking inspiration from the legendary Ferrari F40), the 458MM Speciale (the last mid rear model with a V8 naturally aspirated engine in 2016), the Ferrari P80/C, a real track car taking inspiration from past Ferrari Sport Prototipo models, and the Ferrari Omologata, based on the 812 Superfast V12 platform. The most recent model, produced in 2021, is the BR20, a very elegant V12 based on the GTC4 Lusso. Personalization Offer All of our models feature highly customizable interior and exterior options, which are included in our personalization catalog. Some of these options include performance contents like carbon fibre parts, carbon fibre wheels, titanium exhaust systems, alternative brake caliper colors, parking cameras, MagnaRide dual mode suspension, various door panel configurations, steering wheel inserts and state-of-the-art custom high fidelity sound systems. Starting with the SF90 Stradale and the SF90 Spider, we have also introduced the “Assetto Fiorano” configuration, which provides numerous exclusive features for those who seek radical performance and design. This more extreme configuration is also available for the 296 GTB. With our “Special Equipment” program, we offer clients additional customization choices for their cars. Our specialists are able to guide clients in creating a very customized car through a wide catalog of special items such as different types of rare leathers, custom stitching, special paints, special carbon fiber, and personalized luggage sets designed to match the car’s interior. The “Tailor Made” program provides an additional level of personalization in accordance with the expectations of our clients. A dedicated Ferrari designer assists clients in selecting and applying virtually any specific design element chosen 36 by the client. Our clients benefit from a large selection of finishes and accessories in an array of different materials (ranging from cashmere to denim), treatments and hues. To assist our clients’ choice we also offer three collections inspired by Ferrari’s own tradition: Scuderia (taking its lead from our sporting history), Classica (bringing a modern twist to the styling cues of our signature GT models) and Inedita (showcasing more experimental and innovation-led personalization). The “One-off” program is the maximum level of personalization and exclusivity. See “ —Limited Edition Hypercars and One-Offs ” above for more details. Design Design is a fundamental and distinctive aspect of our products and our brand. Our designers, modelers and engineers work together to create car bodies that incorporate the most innovative aerodynamic solutions in the sleek and powerful lines typical of our cars. The interiors of our cars seek to balance functionality, aesthetics and comfort. Cockpits are designed to maximize the driving experience, tending towards more sporty or more comfortable depending on the model. The interiors of our vehicles boast elegant and sophisticated trims and details that enhance the ergonomic layout of all main controls, many of which are clustered on the steering wheel. A guiding principle of our design is that each new model represents a clear departure from prior models and introduces new and distinctive aesthetic elements, delivering constant innovation within the furrow of tradition. For the design of our cars we have relied historically on Italian coachbuilders such as Carrozzeria Touring, Vignale, Scaglietti and Pininfarina. These partnerships helped Ferrari in defining its design language at the forefront of design advance. Throughout the years this area of excellence has been recognized repeatedly by a long series of awards being bestowed upon Ferrari cars. In 2010 we established the Ferrari Design Centre, our in-house design department, with the objective of improving control over the entire design process and ensuring long-term continuity of the Ferrari style. The mission of the Ferrari Design Centre is to define and evolve the stylistic direction of the marque, imprinting all new products with a modern stamp, according to a futuristic, uncompromised vision. The name and logo “Ferrari Design” denotes all concepts and works of the Ferrari Design Centre (see “ —Intellectual Property ”). Ferrari Design handles all aspects of automotive styling for the Ferrari road cars product range, encompassing the styling of all bodywork, external components and interior trim, applied to series production models for the GT and sports car range special editions, limited edition hypercars, Iconas, one-off models, concept cars and some track-only models. Ferrari Design also includes a Color & Trim unit which manages the choice of materials and finishes for both exterior and interior trim and, in addition, is responsible for the Tailor Made program in conjunction with the Product Marketing department. Ferrari Design is also involved in the styling and conceptual definition of Ferrari branded products produced by our licensees (see “ —Brand Activities ”). In 2019, we created the Advanced Design team, a laboratory that aims at defining the brand’s design vision, developing new concepts and formal languages through so far unexplored methods and tools, and trying to achieve simplification and formal purity while staying true to the Ferrari DNA which has characterized its history. Ferrari Design is organized as an integrated automotive design studio, employing a total workforce of approximately 120 people (full-time workers as well as external contractors) including designers, 3D surfacing operators, physical modelers and graphic artists. It operates a modeling studio fully equipped with 5-axis milling machines with the capacity to develop various full-scale models (interior and exterior) in parallel. In September 2018 we opened a new building for the Ferrari Design Centre, which is our first facility fully dedicated to the Ferrari Design. The new building hosts two Ateliers and the Tailor Made department to engage clients with Ferrari’s rich personalization services. The Ferrari Design Centre has designed our most recent cars, including our entire current line up. During its 12 year history, the Ferrari Design Centre has received many prestigious design awards for the cars it has designed, including the following in the last 2 years: • Ferrari SF90 Spider: iF Design Award; Red Dot Design Award (2021); • Ferrari Omologata: Red Dot Design Award (2021); • Ferrari Roma: iF Design Award (2021); • Ferrari Portofino M: AUTONIS - Best New Design 2021-Auto Motor und Sport - (2021); 37 • Ferrari Roma: The Most Beautiful Supercar of the Year — Festival Automobile International, Paris (2020); Red Dot Design Award (2020); Car Design Award (2020); • Ferrari SF90 Stradale: iF Gold Design Award (2020); Red Dot Best of The Best (2020); • Ferrari F8 Tributo: iF Design Award (2020); Red Dot Design Award (2020); • Ferrari One Off P80/C: iF Design Award (2020); • Ferrari Monza SP1: XXVI PREMIO COMPASSO D’ORO (2020). On September 27, 2021 we announced a long-term, multi-year collaboration with the creative collective LoveFrom. The first expression of this new partnership will bring together Ferrari’s legendary performance and excellence with LoveFrom’s unrivalled experience and creativity that has defined extraordinary world changing products. Product Development Product development and technological innovation Our development efforts take into account the three defining dimensions of Ferrari cars; performance; versatility and comfort; and driving emotions. Performance reflects features such as weight, horsepower, torque, grip, aerodynamic efficiency, acceleration, and maximum speed, which all contribute to determine the lap time on track. We strive to ensure that every Ferrari is the best performing car in its segment. Versatility derives from spaciousness, accessibility and mode of traction, including rear‑wheel‑drive or all‑wheel‑drive and, in future, electric-powered driving. Comfort results from the ease of the riding experience and onboard interface. Regulation will affect development in this area; for example, a prescribed electric range may be required in future to access city centers. Driving emotions is a key differentiator of Ferrari cars. There are three elements to driving emotions: sound, perceived acceleration and responsiveness of the car. Sound is an important part of the experience and very involving for the driver. Perceived acceleration is the driver’s subjective impression of the instantaneous car acceleration beyond the actual 0-100 or 0-200 km/h performance measured in the car technical specifications. Responsiveness requires that every driver command (steering, gear shifting and braking) leads to an immediate, linear and controllable reaction of the car. These three dimensions variably interact in our sports and GT cars. As we work on the future product range, we strive to improve on each of those dimensions, focusing for sports cars on performance and driving emotions, and for GT cars on versatility and comfort on board and driving emotions. 38 Innovation principles We believe there are five key guidelines to innovation at Ferrari: focus on the three key defining dimensions described above; leveraging on Formula 1 know-how; first mover positioning in core areas such as powertrain and aerodynamics; customization of technologies available on the market (such as the turbo technology); and pursuit of synergies (arising from common architectures within our range). In addition to these internally driven factors, regulation is key in determining the direction of innovation. Combustion and hybrid engines We believe internal combustion engines will remain important in Ferrari’s powertrain mix and therefore we continue to invest in new combustion engine technologies and the development or use of bio-fuels. Going forward, Ferrari will have three engine families: V12 - We will maintain and develop the V12 naturally aspirated engine family, long the pinnacle of Ferrari engines; V8 - We have implemented further technological enhancements for the V8 family; and V6 - We developed and launched this year a completely new V6 family based on a specific and innovative architecture. The industry effort to combine greater power outputs with lower emissions and consumption often leads to a higher turbo lag. Through a technological breakthrough, Ferrari has engineered a turbo engine with turbo engine performance but with the response of a naturally aspirated engine. For example, compared to Ferrari’s previous line of V8 turbo engines, the specific power output of the Ferrari F8 Tributo and the Ferrari 488 Pista was increased to 184 horsepower per litre without meaningful turbo lag. We have undertaken an important program to develop hybrid and electric technology. One of the more relevant topics of this generation, we expect the concept of the car in an era of climate change to be an opportunity for us. We intend to use hybrid and electric technology, as well as Formula 1 technology, to increase specific power output without turbo lag. Innovation runs within Ferrari, so the challenge of building a Ferrari for a low-emissions future is one that we are already embracing. With the SF90 Stradale we developed the first series production model in our range with PHEV 39 technology, which is also featured in the SF90 Spider. In 2021 we launched our third production model with PHEV technology, the 296 GTB, a pure rear wheel drive sports car that reaches the pinnacle of driving emotions thanks to its V6 engine and significantly reduced weight, giving it a class-leading overall weight-to-power ratio. The increased offering of hybrid powertrains will allow us to meet both specific regulatory requirements and also satisfy customers’ desires for significantly improved emissions, while enhancing the performance and driving experience that render Ferrari cars unique. Architecture In addition to engines, the other principal technical area we are focusing on is the architecture. Our architecture covers all principal technical specifications of future Ferrari models. We expect that innovation requirements will arise principally from: the evolution of engine families; the level of hybridization and electrification; modes of traction; the number of seats up to a real four-seater; and the body style, which will vary much more significantly than in the past in light of the introduction of the Purosangue. We expect that our core architectures will be the rear‑mid‑engine architecture and the front‑mid‑engine architecture, each comprising several variants. Rear-mid-engine architecture The rear‑mid‑engine architecture is optimal for sports cars thanks to its compact dimensions, low gravity center and favorable mass repartitions. It is designed to integrate multiple power units with a higher specific power output than the Ferrari 488 Pista. In this architecture, combustion engines can be combined with an electric motor to realize hybridization, including a battery to enable electric range. This architecture also allows to install an E-Axle on the front to increase overall power and to have an all-wheel drive powertrain. The first application of this architecture is the SF90 Stradale. In combination, we have developed a new and highly innovative 8-shift double‑clutch transmission gearbox. Hybridization will impact the weight of engines and therefore we will deploy new lightweight technologies to compensate this impact. Package efficiency will also be key to achieve a compact car that reduces weight and inertia. In order to apply the architecture to different powertrains, the wheelbase may vary. The second example of this new architecture is the 296 GTB, where the V6 engine allowed for a reduction in the wheel base of 500 mm with a positive impact on driving emotions and without any trade off of comfort on board. Front-mid-engine architecture The front‑mid‑engine architecture, also a transaxle powertrain concept, is optimal for our GT cars in terms of dimensions. This architecture is able to accommodate an all‑wheel‑drive powertrain, will allow for hybridization, and will have a flexible wheelbase suited to a variety of engines as well as seat configurations including two‑seaters and four‑seaters. It will be accessible, spacious and comfortable. Key to this architecture will be the new active suspension systems we are developing, with a high range between comfort and sportiness. 40 New-generation human-machine interface Particularly driven by growth in the GT segment, Ferrari has developed the next generation of human‑machine interface (HMI) technologies. Using state‑of‑the‑art technologies we will be guided by the Formula 1 derived concept of “eyes on the street, hands on the steering wheel”, for a focused, safe and enjoyable drive. The new HMI includes several new technologies, including a new head‑up display, a new innovative cluster, a new steering wheel that features new commands and a new infotainment system, as well as tools aimed at positively enhancing the passengers’ experience. The first cars using all or part of these technologies are the SF90 Stradale and the Ferrari Roma. Autonomous driving and connectivity While we do not intend to develop self-driving cars, we will adopt certain features of autonomous driving technology in response to regulatory developments and customer preferences, especially in the GT segment. For example, in 2018 we launched initial functionalities for Advanced Driving Assistant Systems (ADAS) such as predictive braking and automatic cruise control on current models, and further innovations will be introduced in future models. Ferrari is carefully monitoring the evolution of autonomous driving technologies, including sensors, new chips, artificial intelligence and connectivity, and we will select and customize those innovations compatible with the Ferrari experience and the highest security standards. These technologies combined with the hybridization and the incoming cybersecurity requirements will also have an important impact on the electronic architecture of our cars and we are presently developing our future electrical and electronic architecture to take into account these requirements. Production and Procurement Production Process Our production facilities are located in Maranello and in Modena, Italy (see “