Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects ” and the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this document. Historical results for any period are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. 1 Consolidated Income Statement Data For the years ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 (€ million, except per share data) Net revenues 3,766 3,420 3,417 3,105 2,854 EBIT 917 826 775 595 444 Profit before taxes 875 803 746 567 434 Net profit 699 787 537 400 290 Net profit attributable to: Owners of the parent 696 785 535 399 288 Non-controlling interests 3 2 2 1 2 Basic earnings per common share (€) (1) (2) 3.73 4.16 2.83 2.11 1.52 Diluted earnings per common share (€) (1) (2) (3) 3.71 4.14 2.82 2.11 1.52 Dividend approved per common share (€) (4) (5) 1.03 0.71 — — — Dividend approved per common share ($) (4) (5) (6) 1.16 0.88 — — — Distribution approved per common share (€) (7) (8) — — 0.635 0.46 — Distribution approved per common share ($) (6) (7) (8) — — 0.682 0.52 — _____________________________ (1) For 2015, retrospectively reflects the issuance of 188,923,499 common shares as if the Separation had occurred on January 1, 2015. See also Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (2) The increase in the basic and diluted earnings per common share in 2018 compared to 2017 includes the effects of applying the Patent Box tax regime starting in the third quarter of 2018. See Adjusted Basic and Diluted Earnings per Common Share for 2018 in the section “ Non-GAAP Financial Measures ” as well as Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, both included elsewhere in this document, for additional information. (3) In order to calculate the diluted earnings per common share the weighted average number of shares outstanding has been increased to take into consideration the theoretical effect of (i) the potential common shares that would have been issued under the equity incentive plan for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 (assuming 100 percent of the related awards vested), and (ii) the potential common shares that would have been issued for the Non-Executive Directors’ compensation agreement for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. For the year ended December 31, 2015 there were no potentially dilutive instruments. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (4) Following approval of the annual accounts by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Shareholders on April 12, 2019, a dividend distribution of €1.03 per outstanding common share was approved, corresponding to a total distribution of €193 million. The distribution was made from the retained earnings reserve. (5) Following approval of the annual accounts by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Shareholders on April 13, 2018, a dividend distribution of €0.71 per outstanding common share was approved, corresponding to a total distribution of €134 million. The distribution was made from the retained earnings reserve. (6) Translated into U.S. Dollars at the exchange rates in effect on the dates on which the distribution was declared in U.S. Dollars for common shares that are traded on the New York Stock Exchange. These translations are examples only, and should not be construed as a representation that the Euro amount represents, or has been or could be converted into, U.S. Dollars at that or any other rate. (7) Following approval of the annual accounts by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Shareholders on April 14, 2017, a cash distribution of €0.635 per outstanding common share was approved, corresponding to a total distribution of €120 million. The distribution was made from the share premium reserve which is a distributable reserve under Dutch law. (8) Following approval of the annual accounts by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Shareholders on April 15, 2016, a cash distribution of €0.46 per outstanding common share was approved, corresponding to a total distribution of €87 million. The distribution was made from the share premium reserve which is a distributable reserve under Dutch law. 2 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Data At December 31, 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 (€ million, except number of shares issued) Cash and cash equivalents 898 794 648 458 183 Deposits in FCA Group cash management pools (1) — — — — 139 Total assets 5,446 4,852 4,141 3,850 3,875 Debt 2,090 1,927 1,806 1,848 2,260 Total equity/(deficit) (2) 1,487 1,354 784 330 (19 ) Equity/(Deficit) attributable to owners of the parent 1,481 1,349 779 325 (25 ) Non-controlling interests 6 5 5 5 6 Share capital 3 3 3 3 4 Common shares issued and outstanding (in thousands of shares) (3) 185,283 187,921 188,954 188,923 188,923 _____________________________ (1) Deposits in FCA Group cash management pools related to our participation in a group-wide cash management system at FCA prior to the Separation, where the operating cash management, main funding operations and liquidity of the Group were centrally coordinated by dedicated treasury companies with the objective of ensuring effective and efficient management of our funds. Following the completion of the Separation on January 3, 2016, these arrangements were terminated and we manage our liquidity and treasury function on a standalone basis. (2) The deficit at December 31, 2015 is a result of the effects of the restructuring activities undertaken as part of the Separation. (3) For 2015, the number of common shares issued retrospectively reflects the issuance of common shares (net of treasury shares), all with a nominal value of €0.01, as if the Separation had occurred on January 1, 2015. Other Statistical Information For the years ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Shipments (number of cars) 10,131 9,251 8,398 8,014 7,664 Average number of employees for the period 4,164 3,651 3,336 3,115 2,954 B.   Capitalization and Indebtedness Not applicable. C.   Reason for the Offer and Use of Proceeds Not applicable. 3 D. Risk Factors We face a variety of risks and uncertainties in our business. Those described below are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, may also become important factors that affect us. Risks Related to Our Business, Strategy and Operations We may not succeed in preserving and enhancing the value of the Ferrari brand, which we depend upon to drive demand and revenues. Our financial performance is influenced by the perception and recognition of the Ferrari brand, which, in turn, depends on many factors such as the design, performance, quality and image of our cars, the appeal of our dealerships and stores, the success of our promotional activities including public relations and marketing, as well as our general profile, including our brand’s image of exclusivity. The value of our brand and our ability to achieve premium pricing for Ferrari-branded products may decline if we are unable to maintain the value and image of the Ferrari brand, including, in particular, its aura of exclusivity. Maintaining the value of our brand will depend significantly on our ability to continue to produce luxury performance cars of the highest quality. The market for luxury goods generally and for luxury automobiles in particular is intensely competitive, and we may not be successful in maintaining and strengthening the appeal of our brand. Client preferences, particularly among luxury goods, can vary over time, sometimes rapidly. We are therefore exposed to changing perceptions of our brand image, particularly as we seek to attract new generations of clients and, to that end, we continuously renovate and expand the range of our models. For example, the gradual expansion of hybrid engine and electric engine technology (already integrated in past models such as the LaFerrari and the LaFerrari Aperta, as well as in the new SF90 Stradale) will introduce a notable change in the overall driver experience compared to the combustion engine cars of our models to date. Any failure to preserve and enhance the value of our brand may materially and adversely affect our ability to sell our cars, to maintain premium pricing, and to extend the value of our brand into other activities profitably or at all. We selectively license the Ferrari brand to third parties that produce and sell Ferrari-branded luxury goods and therefore we rely on our licensing partners to preserve and enhance the value of our brand. If our licensees or the manufacturers of these products do not maintain the standards of quality and exclusivity that we believe are consistent with the Ferrari brand, or if such licensees or manufacturers otherwise misuse the Ferrari brand, our reputation and the integrity and value of our brand may be damaged and our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we have recently announced a brand diversification strategy that will significantly increase the deployment of our brand in non-car products and experiences. If this strategy is not successful, our brand image may be diluted or tainted. Our brand image depends in part on the success of our Formula 1 racing team. The prestige, identity, and appeal of the Ferrari brand depend in part on the continued success of the Scuderia Ferrari racing team in the Formula 1 World Championship. The racing team is a key component of our marketing strategy and may be perceived by our clients as a demonstration of the technological capabilities of our sports, GT, special series and Icona cars, which also supports the appeal of other Ferrari-branded luxury goods. We have focused on restoring the success of our Formula 1 racing team as our most recent Drivers’ Championship and Constructors’ Championship were in 2007 and 2008, respectively. We are focused on improving our racing results and restoring our historical position as the premier racing team. If we are unable to attract and retain the necessary talent to succeed in international competitions or devote the capital necessary to fund successful racing activities, the value of the Ferrari brand and the appeal of our cars and other luxury goods may suffer. Even if we are able to attract such talent and adequately fund our racing activities, there is no assurance that this will lead to competitive success for our racing team. The success of our racing team depends in particular on our ability to attract and retain top drivers, racing team management and engineering talent. Our primary Formula 1 drivers, team managers and other key employees of Scuderia Ferrari are critical to the success of our racing team and if we were to lose their services, this could have a material adverse effect on the success of our racing team and correspondingly the Ferrari brand. If we are unable to find adequate replacements or to attract, retain and incentivize drivers and team managers, other key employees or new qualified personnel, the success of our racing team may suffer. As the success of our racing team forms a large part of our brand identity, a sustained period without racing success could detract from the Ferrari brand and, as a result, potential clients’ enthusiasm for the Ferrari brand and their perception of our cars, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 4 If we are unable to keep up with advances in high performance car technology, our brand and competitive position may suffer. Performance cars are characterized by leading-edge technology that is constantly evolving. In particular, advances in racing technology often lead to improved technology in road cars. Although we invest heavily in research and development, we may be unable to maintain our leading position in high performance car technology and, as a result, our competitive position may suffer. As technologies change, we plan to upgrade or adapt our cars and introduce new models in order to continue to provide cars with the latest technology. However, our cars may not compete effectively with our competitors’ cars if we are not able to develop, source and integrate the latest technology into our cars. For example, in the next few years luxury performance cars will increasingly transition to hybrid and electric technology, albeit at a slower pace compared to mass market vehicles. See “ The introduction of hybrid and electric technology in our cars is costly and its long term success is uncertain ”. Developing and applying new automotive technologies is costly, and may become even more costly in the future as available technology advances and competition in the industry increases. If our research and development efforts do not lead to improvements in car performance relative to the competition, or if we are required to spend more to achieve comparable results, sales of our cars or our profitability may suffer. If our car designs do not appeal to clients, our brand and competitive position may suffer. Design and styling are an integral component of our models and our brand. Our cars have historically been characterized by distinctive designs combining the aerodynamics of a sports car with powerful, elegant lines. We believe our clients purchase our cars for their appearance as well as their performance. However, we will need to renew over time the style of our cars to differentiate the new models we produce from older models, and to reflect the broader evolution of aesthetics in our markets. We devote great efforts to the design of our cars and most of our current models are designed by the Ferrari Design Centre, our in-house design team. If the design of our future models fails to meet the evolving tastes and preferences of our clients and prospective clients, or the appreciation of the wider public, our brand may suffer and our sales may be adversely affected. The value of our brand depends in part on the automobile collector and enthusiast community. An important factor in the connection of clients to the Ferrari brand is our strong relationship with the global community of automotive collectors and enthusiasts, particularly collectors and enthusiasts of Ferrari automobiles. This is influenced by our close ties to the automotive collectors’ community and our support of related events (such as car shows and driving events) at our headquarters in Maranello and through our dealers, the Ferrari museums and affiliations with regional Ferrari clubs. The support of this community also depends upon the perception of our cars as collectibles, which we also support through our Ferrari Classiche services, and the active resale market for our automobiles which encourages interest over the long term. The increase in the number of cars we produce relative to the number of automotive collectors and purchasers in the secondary market may adversely affect our cars’ value as collectible items and in the secondary market more broadly. If there is a change in collector appetite or damage to the Ferrari brand, our ties to, and the support we receive from, this community may be diminished. Such a loss of enthusiasm for our cars from the automotive collectors’ community could harm the perception of the Ferrari brand and adversely impact our sales and profitability. Our business is subject to changes in client preferences and trends in the automotive and luxury industries. Our continued success depends in part on our ability to originate and define products and trends in the automotive and luxury industries, as well as to anticipate and respond promptly to changing consumer demands and automotive trends in the design, styling, technology, production, merchandising and pricing of our products. Our products must appeal to a client base whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. Evaluating and responding to client preferences has become even more complex in recent years, due to our expansion in new geographical markets. The introduction of hybrid and electric technology and the associated changes in customer preferences that may follow are also a challenge we will face in future periods. See also “If we are unable to keep up with advances in high performance car technology, our brand and competitive position may suffer” and “ The introduction of hybrid and electric technology in our cars is costly and its long term success is uncertain ”. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to produce, distribute and market new products efficiently or that any product category that we may expand or introduce will achieve sales levels sufficient to generate profits. We will encounter this risk, for example, as we introduce the Purosangue, a luxury high performance vehicle within the GT range that we are developing and will launch in the coming years. Furthermore this risk is particularly pronounced as we expand in accordance with our strategy into adjacent segments of the luxury industry, where we do not have a level of experience 5 and market presence comparable to the one we have in the automotive industry. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Demand for luxury goods, including luxury performance cars, is volatile, which may adversely affect our operating results. Volatility of demand for luxury goods, in particular luxury performance cars, may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The market in which we sell our cars is subject to volatility in demand. Demand for luxury automobiles depends to a large extent on general, economic, political and social conditions in a given market as well as the introduction of new vehicles and technologies. As a luxury performance car manufacturer and low volume producer, we compete with larger automobile manufacturers many of which have greater financial resources in order to withstand changes in the market and disruptions in demand. Demand for our cars may also be affected by factors directly impacting the cost of purchasing and operating automobiles, such as the availability and cost of financing, prices of raw materials and parts and components, fuel costs and governmental regulations, including tariffs, import regulation and other taxes, including taxes on luxury goods, resulting in limitations to the use of high performance sports cars or luxury goods more generally. Volatility in demand may lead to lower car unit sales, which may result in downward price pressure and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The impact of a luxury market downturn may be particularly pronounced for the most expensive among our car models, which generate a more than proportionate amount of our profits, therefore exacerbating the impact on our results. In addition, these effects may have a more pronounced impact on us given our low volume strategy and relatively smaller scale as compared to large global mass-market automobile manufacturers. We face competition in the luxury performance car industry. We face competition in all product categories and markets in which we operate. We compete with other international luxury performance car manufacturers which own and operate well-known brands of high-quality cars, some of which form part of larger automotive groups and may have greater financial resources and bargaining power with suppliers than we do, particularly in light of our policy to maintain low volumes in order to preserve and enhance the exclusivity of our cars.  In addition, several other manufacturers have recently entered or are attempting to enter the upper end of the luxury performance car market, thereby increasing competition. We believe that we compete primarily on the basis of our brand image, the performance and design of our cars, our reputation for quality and the driving experience for our customers. If we are unable to compete successfully, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our growth strategy exposes us to risks. Our growth strategy includes a controlled expansion of our sales and operations, including the launching of new car models and expanding sales, as well as dealer operations and workshops, in targeted growth regions internationally. In particular, our growth strategy requires us to expand operations in regions that we have identified as having relatively high growth potential. We may encounter difficulties, including more significant competition in entering and establishing ourselves in these markets. Our growth depends on the continued success of our existing cars, as well as the successful introduction of new cars. Our ability to create new cars and to sustain existing car models is affected by whether we can successfully anticipate and respond to consumer preferences and car trends. The failure to develop successful new cars or delays in their launch that could result in others bringing new products and leading-edge technologies to the market first, could compromise our competitive position and hinder the growth of our business. As part of our growth strategy, we plan to broaden the range of our models to capture additional customer demand for different types of vehicles and modes of utilization. At our Capital Markets Day in September 2018, we announced our plan to introduce 15 new models in the 2019-2022 period (which is unprecedented for Ferrari over a similar time period), including the Icona limited editions, a new concept that takes inspiration from our iconic cars of the past and interprets them in a modern way with innovative technology and materials. In the GT range, we are developing a luxury high performance vehicle, the Purosangue, and we are planning a new line of cars powered by V6 engines. In addition, we will gradually but rapidly expand the use of hybrid and electric technology in our road cars, consistent with customer preferences and broader industry trends. While we will seek to ensure that these changes remain fully consistent with the Ferrari car identity, we cannot be certain that they will prove profitable and commercially successful. Our growth strategy may expose us to new business risks that we may not have the expertise, capability or the systems to manage. This strategy will also place significant demands on us by requiring us to continuously evolve and improve our operational, financial and internal controls. Continued expansion also increases the challenges involved in maintaining high levels of quality, management and client satisfaction, recruiting, training and retaining sufficient skilled management, technical and marketing personnel. If we are unable to manage these risks or meet these demands, our growth prospects and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 6 We continuously improve our international network footprint and skill set. We also plan to open additional retail stores in international markets. We do not yet have significant experience directly operating in many of these markets, and in many of them we face established competitors. Many of these countries have different operational characteristics, including but not limited to employment and labor, transportation, logistics, real estate, environmental regulations and local reporting or legal requirements. Consumer demand and behavior, as well as tastes and purchasing trends may differ in these markets, and as a result, sales of our products may not be successful, or the margins on those sales may not be in line with those we currently anticipate. Furthermore, such markets will have upfront short-term investment costs that may not be accompanied by sufficient revenues to achieve typical or expected operational and financial performance and therefore may be dilutive to us in the short-term. In many of these countries, there is significant competition to attract and retain experienced and talented employees. Consequently, if our international expansion plans are unsuccessful, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our low volume strategy may limit potential profits, and if volumes increase our brand exclusivity may be eroded. A key to the appeal of the Ferrari brand and our marketing strategy is the aura of exclusivity and the sense of luxury which our brand conveys. A central facet to this exclusivity is the limited number of models and cars we produce and our strategy of maintaining our car waiting lists to reach the optimal combination of exclusivity and client service. Our low volume strategy is also an important factor in the prices that our clients are willing to pay for our cars. This focus on maintaining exclusivity limits our potential sales growth and profitability. On the other hand, our current growth strategy contemplates a measured but significant increase in car sales above current levels as we target a larger customer base and modes of use, we increase our focus on GT cars, and our product portfolio evolves with a broader product range. We sold 10,131 cars in 2019, compared to 7,255 cars in 2014, and sales are expected to continue to increase gradually. In pursuit of our strategy, we may be unable to maintain the exclusivity of the Ferrari brand. If we are unable to balance brand exclusivity with increased production, we may erode the desirability and ultimately the consumer demand for our cars. As a result, if we are unable to increase car production meaningfully or introduce new car models without eroding the image of exclusivity in our brand we may be unable to significantly increase our revenues. The small number of car models we produce and sell may result in greater volatility in our financial results. We depend on the sales of a small number of car models to generate our revenues. Our current product range consists of nine range models (including five sports cars and four GT cars) and two special series cars, as well as our limited edition Icona cars. While we anticipate significantly expanding our car offerings as part of our growth strategy, through our previously announced plan to introduce 15 new products in the 2019-2022 period, a limited number of models will continue to account for a large portion of our revenues at any given time in the foreseeable future, compared to other automakers. Therefore, a single unsuccessful new model would harm us more than it would other automakers. There can be no assurance that our cars will continue to be successful in the market, or that we will be able to launch new models on a timely basis compared to our competitors. It generally takes several years from the beginning of the development phase to the start of production for a new model and the car development process is capital intensive. As a result, we would likely be unable to replace quickly the revenue lost from one of our main car models if it does not achieve market acceptance. Furthermore, our revenues and profits may also be affected by our “special series” and limited edition cars (including the Icona limited editions) that we launch from time to time and which are typically priced higher than our range models. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing, producing and marketing additional new cars that will sustain sales growth in the future. Global economic conditions and macro events may adversely affect us. Our sales volumes and revenues may be affected by overall general economic conditions. Deteriorating general economic conditions may affect disposable incomes and reduce consumer wealth impacting client demand, particularly for luxury goods, which may negatively impact our profitability and put downward pressure on our prices and volumes. Furthermore, during recessionary periods, social acceptability of luxury purchases may decrease and higher taxes may be more likely to be imposed on certain luxury goods including our cars, which may affect our sales. Adverse economic conditions may also affect 7 the financial health and performance of our dealers in a manner that will affect sales of our cars or their ability to meet their commitments to us. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending in the luxury performance car industry, including the state of the economy as a whole, stock market performance, interest and exchange rates, inflation, political uncertainty, the availability of consumer credit, tax rates, unemployment levels and other matters that influence consumer confidence. In general, although our sales have historically been comparatively resilient in periods of economic turmoil, sales of luxury goods tend to decline during recessionary periods when the level of disposable income tends to be lower or when consumer confidence is low. We are also susceptible to risks relating to epidemics and pandemics of diseases. For example, the recent outbreak of coronavirus COVID-19 (“Coronavirus”), a virus causing potentially deadly respiratory tract infections originating in China, may negatively affect economic conditions regionally as well as globally, disrupt supply chains and otherwise impact operations. Governments in affected countries are imposing travel bans, quarantines and other emergency public safety measures. Those measures, though temporary in nature, may continue and increase depending on developments in the virus’ outbreak. The ultimate severity of the Coronavirus outbreak is uncertain at this time and therefore we cannot predict the impact it may have on our end markets, supply chain or operations; however, the effect on our results may be material and adverse. We distribute our products internationally and we may be affected by downturns in general economic conditions or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that may impact the countries in which we sell a significant portion of our products. In particular, the majority of our current sales are in the EU and in the United States; if we are unable to expand in emerging markets, a downturn in mature economies such as the EU and the United States may negatively affect our financial performance. The EU economies in particular suffered a prolonged period of slow growth since the 2008 financial crisis. In addition, uncertainties regarding future trade arrangements and industrial policies in various countries or regions, such as in the United Kingdom following the referendum in 2016 to leave the European Union (see further “We may be adversely affected by the UK determination to leave the European Union (Brexit)” ) create additional macroeconomic risk. In the United States, any policy to discourage import into the United States of vehicles produced elsewhere could adversely affect our operations. Any new policies may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although China only represents approximately 9 percent of our net revenues and a limited proportion of our growth in the short term, slowing economic conditions in China may adversely affect our revenues in that region. A significant decline in the EU, the global economy or in the specific economies of our markets, or in consumers’ confidence, could have a material adverse effect on our business. See also “Developments in China and other growth and emerging markets may adversely affect our business” . Developments in China and other growth and emerging markets may adversely affect our business. We operate in a number of growth and emerging markets, both directly and through our dealers. We believe we have potential for further success in new geographies, in particular in China, but also more generally in Asia, recognizing the increasing personal wealth in these markets. While demand in these markets has increased in recent years due to sustained economic growth and growth in personal income and wealth, we are unable to foresee the extent to which economic growth in these emerging markets will be sustained. For example, rising geopolitical tensions and potential slowdowns in the rate of growth there and in other emerging markets could limit the opportunity for us to increase unit sales and revenues in those regions in the near term. See “ Global economic conditions and macro events may adversely affect us ” for a discussion of the recent Coronavirus outbreak, which, for example, may negatively affect sales of our cars in Hong Kong and China in the coming periods. Our exposure to growth and emerging countries is likely to increase, as we pursue expanded sales in such countries. Economic and political developments in emerging markets, including economic crises or political instability, have had and could have in the future material adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. Further, in certain markets in which we or our dealers operate, required government approvals may limit our ability to act quickly in making decisions on our operations in those markets. Other government actions may also impact the market for luxury goods in these markets, such as tax changes or the active discouragement of luxury purchases. Maintaining and strengthening our position in these growth and emerging markets is a key component of our global growth strategy. However, initiatives from several global luxury automotive manufacturers have increased competitive pressures for luxury cars in several emerging markets. As these markets continue to grow, we anticipate that additional competitors, both international and domestic, will seek to enter these markets and that existing market participants will try to aggressively protect or increase their market share. Increased competition may result in pricing pressures, reduced margins and our inability to gain or hold market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. See also “ Global economic conditions and macro events may adversely affect us ”. 8 We may be adversely affected by the UK determination to leave the European Union (Brexit). In a June 23, 2016 referendum, the United Kingdom voted to terminate the UK’s membership in the European Union (“ Brexit ”). The UK ceased to be a member of the European Union on January 31, 2020, opening the transition period that is currently set to last until December 31, 2020, during which the future terms of the UK’s relationship with the European Union, including the terms of trade between the UK and the member states in the EU, will be negotiated. Any effect of Brexit is expected to depend on the agreements, if any, that may be negotiated between the UK and the EU with respect to reciprocal market access and custom arrangements, during the transitional period and more permanently. Failure to reach appropriate agreements could adversely affect European or worldwide economic or market conditions. It is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the UK and European Union countries and increased regulatory complexities which may prove challenging and costly. The UK’s withdrawal from the EU could also negatively impact economic conditions in Europe more generally, which in turn could adversely impact global economic conditions. For instance, the negotiating process surrounding the terms of the departure of the UK from the EU may continue to contribute to significant volatility in exchange rates, wider risks to supply chains across the European Union and ultimately lead to changes in market access or trading terms, including to customs duties, tariffs and/or industry-specific requirements and regulations and generally increased legal and regulatory complexity and costs. In 2019, approximately 10 percent of our cars and spare parts net revenues were generated in the UK; therefore, any material adverse effect of Brexit on global or regional economic or market conditions could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition as customers may reduce or delay spending decisions on our products. Our success depends largely on the ability of our current management team to operate and manage effectively. Our success depends on the ability of our senior executives and other members of management to effectively manage our business as a whole and individual areas of the business. Our employees, particularly in our production facilities in and around Maranello, Italy include many highly skilled engineers, technicians and artisans. If we were to lose the services of any of these senior executives or key employees, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We have developed management succession plans that we believe are appropriate in the circumstances, although it is difficult to predict with any certainty that we will replace these individuals with persons of equivalent experience and capabilities. If we are unable to find adequate replacements or to attract, retain and incentivize senior executives, other key employees or new qualified personnel, our business, results of operations and financial condition may suffer. We rely on our dealer network to provide sales and services. We do not own our Ferrari dealers and virtually all of our sales are made through our network of dealerships located throughout the world. If our dealers are unable to provide sales or service quality that our clients expect or do not otherwise adequately project the Ferrari image and its aura of luxury and exclusivity, the Ferrari brand may be negatively affected. We depend on the quality of our dealership network and our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected if our dealers suffer financial difficulties or otherwise are unable to perform to our expectations. Furthermore, we may experience disagreements or disputes in the course of our relationship with our dealers or upon termination which may lead to financial costs, disruptions and reputational harm. Our growth strategy also depends on our ability to attract a sufficient number of quality new dealers to sell our products in new areas. We may face competition from other luxury performance car manufacturers in attracting quality new dealers, based on, among other things, dealer margin, incentives and the performance of other dealers in the region. If we are unable to attract a sufficient number of new Ferrari dealers in targeted growth areas, our prospects could be materially adversely affected. We depend on our suppliers, many of which are single source suppliers; and if these suppliers fail to deliver necessary raw materials, systems, components and parts of appropriate quality in a timely manner, our operations may be disrupted. Our business depends on a significant number of suppliers, which provide the raw materials, components, parts and systems we require to manufacture cars and parts and to operate our business. We use a variety of raw materials in our business, including aluminum, and precious metals such as palladium and rhodium. We source materials from a limited number of suppliers. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain access to these raw materials, and in some cases this access may be affected by factors outside of our control and the control of our suppliers. In addition, prices for these raw materials fluctuate and while we seek to manage this exposure, we may not be successful in mitigating these risks. As with raw materials, we are also at risk of supply disruption and shortages in parts and components we purchase for use in our cars. We source a variety of key components from third parties, including transmissions, brakes, driving-safety systems, navigation systems, mechanical, electrical and electronic parts, plastic components as well as castings and tires, which 9 makes us dependent upon the suppliers of such components. In the future, we will also require a greater number of components for hybrid and electric engines as we introduce hybrid and electric technology in our cars, and we expect producers of these components will be called upon to increase the levels of supply as the shift to hybrid or electric technology gathers pace in the industry. While we obtain components from multiple sources whenever possible, similar to other small volume car manufacturers, most of the key components we use in our cars are purchased by us from single source suppliers. We generally do not qualify alternative sources for most of the single-sourced components we use in our cars and we do not maintain long-term agreements with a number of our suppliers. Furthermore, we have limited ability to monitor the financial stability of our suppliers. While we believe that we may be able to establish alternate supply relationships and can obtain or engineer replacement components for our single-sourced components, we may be unable to do so in the short term, or at all, at prices or costs that we believe are reasonable. Qualifying alternate suppliers or developing our own replacements for certain highly customized components of our cars may be time consuming, costly and may force us to make costly modifications to the designs of our cars. For example, defective airbags manufactured by Takata Corporation (“Takata”), our former principal supplier of airbags, have led to widespread recalls by several automotive manufacturers starting in 2015, including us (see further “ Car recalls may be costly and may harm our reputation ”; see also “