Item 5.B. Liquidity and Capital Resources ”. D.   Exchange Controls Under Dutch law, there are no exchange control restrictions on investments in, or payments on, the Ferrari common shares. There are no special restrictions in the Ferrari Articles of Association or Dutch law that limit the right of shareholders who are not citizens or residents of the Netherlands to hold or vote the Ferrari common shares. E.   Taxation Material United States Federal Income Tax Consequences This section describes the material U.S. federal income tax consequences of owning Ferrari common shares and special voting shares. It applies solely to U.S. holders (as defined below) that hold common shares or special voting shares of Ferrari as capital assets. This section does not apply to holders subject to special rules, including: • a dealer in securities or foreign currencies, • a regulated investment company, • a trader in securities that elects to use a mark-to-market method of accounting for securities holdings, • a tax-exempt organization, • a bank, financial institution, or insurance company, • a person liable for the alternative minimum tax, • a person that actually or constructively owns 10 percent or more, by vote or value, of Ferrari, • a person that holds common shares or special voting shares of Ferrari as part of a straddle or a hedging, conversion, or other risk reduction transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes, • a person that acquired common shares or special voting shares of Ferrari pursuant to the exercise of employee stock options or otherwise as compensation, or • a person whose functional currency is not the U.S. Dollar. This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations, published rulings and court decisions, as well as on applicable tax treaties, all as of the date hereof. These laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. If an entity or arrangement treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes holds shares, the U.S. federal income tax treatment of a partner will generally depend on the status of the partner and the tax treatment of the partnership. A partner in an entity treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes holding shares should consult its tax advisors with regard to the U.S. federal income tax treatment of the ownership of Ferrari common shares. Holders should consult their own tax advisors regarding the U.S. federal, state and local and foreign and other tax consequences of owning and disposing of Ferrari common shares in their particular circumstances. For purposes of this discussion, a “U.S. holder” is a beneficial owner of common shares of Ferrari that is: • an individual that is a citizen or resident of the United States; • a corporation, or other entity taxable as a corporation, created or organized under the laws of the United States; • an estate whose income is subject to U.S. federal income tax regardless of its source; or 130 • a trust if (i) a U.S. court can exercise primary supervision over the trust’s administration and one or more U.S. persons are authorized to control all substantial decisions of the trust or (ii) the trust has made a valid election under applicable Treasury Regulations to be treated as a U.S. person. Taxation of Dividends Under the U.S. federal income tax laws, and subject to the discussion of PFIC taxation below, a U.S. holder must include in its gross income the gross amount of any dividend paid by Ferrari to the extent of its current or accumulated earnings and profits (as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes). Dividends will be taxed as ordinary income to the extent that they are paid out of Ferrari’s current or accumulated earnings and profits. Dividends paid to a non-corporate U.S. holder by certain “qualified foreign corporations” that constitute qualified dividend income are taxable to the holder at the preferential rates applicable to long-term capital gains provided that the holder holds the shares for more than 60 days during the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date and meets other holding period requirements. For this purpose, common shares of Ferrari are treated as stock of a “qualified foreign corporation” if Ferrari is eligible for the benefits of an applicable comprehensive income tax treaty with the United States or if such stock is readily tradable on an established securities market in the United States. The common shares of Ferrari are listed on the New York Stock Exchange and Ferrari expects to be eligible for the benefits of such a treaty. Accordingly, subject to the discussion of PFIC taxation below, dividends Ferrari pays with respect to the shares are expected to constitute qualified dividend income, assuming the holding period requirements are met. However, no assurance can be given that the common shares of Ferrari will be treated as readily tradable on an established securities market in the United States or that Ferrari will qualify for the benefits of a comprehensive income tax treaty with the United States. A U.S. holder must include any foreign tax withheld from the dividend payment in this gross amount even though the holder does not in fact receive the amount withheld. The dividend is taxable to a U.S. holder when the U.S. holder receives the dividend, actually or constructively. The dividend will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction allowed to U.S. corporations in respect of dividends received from other U.S. corporations. Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes, will be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the U.S. holder’s basis in Ferrari common shares, causing a reduction in the U.S. holder’s adjusted basis in Ferrari common shares, and thereafter as capital gain. Subject to certain limitations, any non-U.S. tax withheld and paid over to a non-U.S. taxing authority is eligible for credit against a U.S. holder’s U.S. federal income tax liability except to the extent a refund of the tax withheld is available to the U.S. holder under non-U.S. tax law or under an applicable tax treaty. The amount allowed to a U.S. holder as a credit is limited to the amount of the U.S. holder’s U.S. federal income tax liability that is attributable to income from sources outside the U.S. and is computed separately with respect to different types of income that the U.S. holder receives from non-U.S. sources. Subject to the discussion below regarding Section 904(h) of the Code, dividends paid by Ferrari will be foreign source income and will, depending on the circumstances of the U.S. holder, be either “passive” or “general” income for purposes of computing the foreign tax credit allowable to a U.S. holder. Under Section 904(h) of the Code, dividends paid by a foreign corporation that is treated as 50 percent or more owned, by vote or value, by U.S. persons may be treated as U.S. source income (rather than foreign source income) for foreign tax credit purposes, to the extent the foreign corporation earns U.S. source income, unless such corporation has less than 10 percent of applicable earnings and profits attributable to sources within the U.S. In certain circumstances, U.S. holders may be able to choose the benefits of Section 904(h)(10) of the Code and elect to treat dividends that would otherwise be U.S. source dividends as foreign source dividends, but in such a case the foreign tax credit limitations would be separately determined with respect to such “resourced” income. In general, therefore, the application of Section 904(h) of the Code may adversely affect a U.S. holder’s ability to use foreign tax credits. Ferrari does not believe that it is 50 percent or more owned by U.S. persons. In addition, Ferrari believes that its earnings and profits attributable to sources within the U.S. will not exceed 10 percent of applicable earnings and profits. However, these conclusions are factual determinations and are subject to change; no assurance can therefore be given that Ferrari may not be treated as 50 percent or more owned by U.S. persons for purposes of Section 904(h) of the Code or that less than 10 percent of Ferrari’s earnings and profits will be attributable to sources within the U.S. U.S. holders are strongly urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible impact if Section 904(h) of the Code should apply. 131 Taxation of Capital Gains Subject to the discussion of PFIC taxation and expected tax consequences of the Separation below, a U.S. holder that sells or otherwise disposes of its Ferrari common shares will recognize capital gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the U.S. Dollar value of the amount that the U.S. holder realizes and the U.S. holder’s tax basis in those shares. Capital gain of a noncorporate U.S. holder is generally taxed at preferential rates where the property is held for more than one year. The gain or loss will be U.S. source income or loss for foreign tax credit limitation purposes. The deduction of capital losses is subject to limitations. Loyalty Voting Program NO STATUTORY, JUDICIAL OR ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY DIRECTLY DISCUSSES HOW THE RECEIPT, OWNERSHIP OR DISPOSITION OF SPECIAL VOTING SHARES SHOULD BE TREATED FOR U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAX PURPOSES AND AS A RESULT, THE U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAX CONSEQUENCES ARE UNCERTAIN. ACCORDINGLY, WE URGE U.S. HOLDERS TO CONSULT THEIR TAX ADVISOR AS TO THE TAX CONSEQUENCES OF THE RECEIPT, OWNERSHIP AND DISPOSITION OF SPECIAL VOTING SHARES. Receipt of special voting shares If a U.S. holder receives special voting shares, the tax consequences of the receipt of special voting shares is unclear. While distributions of stock are tax-free in certain circumstances, it is possible that the distribution of special voting shares could be treated as a distribution subject to tax as described above in “— Taxation of Dividends ” if such distribution were considered to result in a "disproportionate distribution." If the distribution of special voting shares were so treated, the amount of the distribution should equal the fair market value of the special voting shares received.  Ferrari believes and intends to take the position that the value of each special voting share is minimal. However, because the fair market value of the special voting shares is factual and is not governed by any guidance that directly addresses such a situation, the IRS could assets that the value of the special voting shares (and thus the amount of the distribution) as determined by Ferrari is incorrect. Ownership of special voting shares Ferrari believes that U.S. holders holding special voting shares should not have to recognize income in respect of amounts transferred to the special voting shares dividend reserve that are not paid out as dividends. Section 305 of the Code may, in certain circumstances, require a holder of preferred shares to recognize income even if no dividends are actually received on such shares if the preferred shares are redeemable at a premium and the redemption premium results in a “constructive distribution.” Preferred shares for this purpose refer to shares that do not participate in corporate growth to any significant extent. Ferrari believes that Section 305 of the Code should not apply to any amounts transferred to the special voting shares dividend reserve that are not paid out as dividends so as to require current income inclusion by U.S. holders because, among other things, (i) the special voting shares are not redeemable on a specific date and a U.S. holder is only entitled to receive amounts in respect of the special voting shares upon liquidation, (ii) Section 305 of the Code does not require the recognition of income in respect of a redemption premium if the redemption premium does not exceed a de minimis amount and, even if the amounts transferred to the special voting shares dividend reserve that are not paid out as dividends are considered redemption premium, the amount of the redemption premium is likely to be “ de minimis ” as such term is used in the applicable Treasury Regulations. Ferrari therefore intends to take the position that the transfer of amounts to the special voting shares dividend reserve that are not paid out as dividends does not result in a “constructive distribution,” and this determination is binding on all U.S. holders of special voting shares other than a U.S. holder that explicitly discloses its contrary determination in the manner prescribed by the applicable regulations. However, because the tax treatment of the loyalty voting program is unclear and because Ferrari’s determination is not binding on the IRS, it is possible that the IRS could disagree with Ferrari’s determination and require current income inclusion in respect of such amounts transferred to the special voting shares dividend reserve that are not paid out as dividends. Disposition of special voting shares The tax treatment of a U.S. holder that has its special voting shares redeemed for zero consideration after removing its common shares from the Loyalty Register is unclear. It is possible that a U.S. holder would recognize a loss to the extent of the U.S. holder’s basis in its special voting shares. Such loss would be a capital loss and would be a long-term capital loss if a U.S. holder has held its special voting shares for more than one year. It is also possible that a U.S. holder would not be allowed to recognize a loss upon the redemption of its special voting shares and instead a U.S. holder should increase the basis in its Ferrari common shares by an amount equal to the basis in its special voting shares. Such basis increase in a U.S. holder’s Ferrari 132 common shares would decrease the gain, or increase the loss, that a U.S. holder would recognize upon the sale or other taxable disposition of its Ferrari common shares. THE U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAX TREATMENT OF THE LOYALTY VOTING PROGRAM IS UNCLEAR AND U.S. HOLDERS ARE URGED TO CONSULT THEIR TAX ADVISORS IN RESPECT OF THE CONSEQUENCES OF ACQUIRING, OWNING, AND DISPOSING OF SPECIAL VOTING SHARES. PFIC Considerations Ferrari believes that shares of its stock will not be stock of a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but this conclusion is based on a factual determination made annually and thus is subject to change. As discussed in greater detail below, if shares of Ferrari stock were to be treated as stock of a PFIC, gain realized (subject to the discussion below regarding a mark-to-market election) on the sale or other disposition of shares of Ferrari stock would not be treated as capital gain, and a U.S. holder would be treated as if such U.S. holder had realized such gain and certain “excess distributions” ratably over the U.S. holder’s holding period for its shares of Ferrari stock and would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for each such year to which the gain was allocated, together with an interest charge in respect of the tax attributable to each such year. With certain exceptions, a U.S. holder’s shares of Ferrari stock would be treated as stock in a PFIC if Ferrari were a PFIC at any time during such U.S. holder’s holding period in the shares. Dividends received from Ferrari would not be eligible for the special tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income if Ferrari were treated as a PFIC in the taxable years in which the dividends are paid or in the preceding taxable year (regardless of whether the U.S. holder held shares of Ferrari stock in such year) but instead would be taxable at rates applicable to ordinary income. Ferrari would be a PFIC with respect to a U.S. holder if for any taxable year in which the U.S. holder held shares of Ferrari stock, after the application of applicable “look-through rules”: • 75 percent or more of Ferrari’s gross income for the taxable year consists of “passive income” (including dividends, interest, gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties that are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business, as defined in applicable Treasury Regulations); or • at least 50 percent of its assets for the taxable year (averaged over the year and determined based upon value) produce or are held for the production of passive income. Because the determination whether a foreign corporation is a PFIC is primarily factual and there is little administrative or judicial authority on which to rely to make a determination, the IRS might not agree that Ferrari is not a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that Ferrari would not become a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in Ferrari’s assets, income or operations. If Ferrari were to be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year included in whole or in part in a U.S. holder’s holding period of Ferrari and such U.S. holder is treated as owning shares of Ferrari stock for purposes of the PFIC rules (and regardless of whether Ferrari remains a PFIC for subsequent taxable years), the U.S. holder (i) would be liable to pay U.S. federal income tax at the highest applicable income tax rates on (a) ordinary income upon the receipt of excess distributions (the portion of any distributions received by the U.S. holder on shares of Ferrari stock in a taxable year in excess of 125 percent of the average annual distributions received by the U.S. holder in the three preceding taxable years or, if shorter, the U.S. holder’s holding period for the Ferrari common shares) and (b) on any gain from the disposition of shares of Ferrari stock, plus interest on such amounts, as if such excess distributions or gain had been recognized ratably over the U.S. holder’s holding period of the shares of Ferrari stock, and (ii) may be required to annually file Form 8621 with the IRS reporting information concerning Ferrari. If Ferrari were to be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year and provided that Ferrari common shares are treated as “marketable stock” within the meaning of applicable Treasury Regulations, which Ferrari believes will be the case, a U.S. holder may make a mark-to-market election with respect to such U.S. holder’s common shares. Under a mark-to-market election, any excess of the fair market value of the Ferrari common shares at the close of any taxable year over the U.S. holder’s adjusted tax basis in the Ferrari common shares is included in the U.S. holder’s income as ordinary income. These amounts of ordinary income would not be eligible for the favorable tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income or long-term capital gains. In addition, the excess, if any, of the U.S. holder’s adjusted tax basis at the close of any taxable year over the fair market value of the Ferrari common shares is deductible in an amount equal to the lesser of the amount of the excess or the amount of the net mark-to-market gains that the U.S. holder included in income in prior years. A U.S. holder’s tax basis in Ferrari common shares would be adjusted to reflect any such income or loss. Gain realized on the sale, exchange or other disposition of Ferrari common 133 shares would be treated as ordinary income, and any loss realized on the sale, exchange or other disposition of Ferrari common shares would be treated as ordinary loss to the extent that such loss does not exceed the net mark-to-market gains previously included by the U.S. holder. The adverse consequences of owning stock in a PFIC could also be mitigated if a U.S. holder makes a valid “qualified electing fund” election (“QEF election”), which, among other things, would require a U.S. holder to include currently in income its pro rata share of the PFIC’s net capital gain and ordinary earnings, based on earnings and profits as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Because of the administrative burdens involved, Ferrari does not intend to provide information to its holders that would be required to make such election effective. A U.S. holder that holds shares of Ferrari stock during a period when Ferrari is a PFIC will be subject to the foregoing rules for that taxable year and all subsequent taxable years with respect to that U.S. holder’s holding of Ferrari common shares, even if Ferrari ceases to be a PFIC, subject to certain exceptions for U.S. holders that made a mark-to-market or QEF election. U.S. holders are strongly urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the PFIC rules, and the potential tax consequences to them if Ferrari were determined to be a PFIC. Material Netherlands Tax Consequences This section describes solely the material Dutch tax consequences of the acquisition, ownership and disposal of Ferrari common shares and, if applicable, Ferrari special voting shares by Non-Resident holders of such shares (as defined below). It does not consider every aspect of Dutch taxation that may be relevant to a particular holder of Ferrari common shares and, if applicable, Ferrari special voting shares in special circumstances or who is subject to special treatment under applicable law. Shareholders and any potential investor should consult their own tax advisors regarding the Dutch tax consequences of acquiring, owning and disposing of Ferrari common shares and, if applicable, Ferrari special voting shares in their particular circumstances. Where in this section English terms and expressions are used to refer to Dutch concepts, the meaning to be attributed to such terms and expressions shall be the meaning to be attributed to the equivalent Dutch concepts under Dutch tax law. Where in this section the terms “the Netherlands” and “Dutch” are used, these refer solely to the European part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. This summary also assumes that the board shall control the conduct of the affairs of Ferrari and shall procure that Ferrari is organized such that Ferrari should be treated as solely resident of Italy for the application of the tax treaty as concluded between Italy and The Netherlands. A change in facts and circumstances based upon which Ferrari is no longer considered to be solely resident of Italy for the application of the mentioned treaty may invalidate the contents of this section, which will not be updated to reflect any such change. This description is based on the tax law of the Netherlands (unpublished case law not included) as it stands at the date of this Form. The law upon which this description is based is subject to change, perhaps with retroactive effect. Any such change may invalidate the contents of this description, which will not be updated to reflect such change. Where in this Dutch taxation discussion reference is made to “a holder of Ferrari common shares and, if applicable, Ferrari special voting shares”, that concept includes, without limitation: 1. an owner of one or more Ferrari common shares and/or Ferrari special voting shares who in addition to the title to such Ferrari common shares and/or Ferrari special voting shares, has an economic interest in such Ferrari common shares and/or Ferrari special voting shares; 2. a person who or an entity that holds the entire economic interest in one or more Ferrari common shares and/or Ferrari special voting shares; 3. a person who or an entity that holds an interest in an entity, such as a partnership or a mutual fund, that is transparent for Dutch tax purposes, the assets of which comprise one or more Ferrari common shares and/or Ferrari special voting shares, within the meaning of 1. or 2. above; or 134 4. a person who is deemed to hold an interest in Ferrari common shares and/or Ferrari special voting shares, as referred to under 1. to 3., pursuant to the attribution rules of article 2.14a, of the Dutch Income Tax Act 2001 ( Wet inkomstenbelasting 2001 ), with respect to property that has been segregated, for instance in a trust or a foundation. Scope of the summary. The summary of Dutch taxes set out in this section “Material Dutch tax consequences” only applies to a holder of Ferrari common shares and, if applicable Ferrari special voting shares who is a Non-Resident holder of such shares. For the purpose of this summary a holder of Ferrari common shares and, if applicable Ferrari special voting shares is a Non-Resident holder of such shares if such holder is neither a resident nor deemed to be resident in The Netherlands for purposes of Dutch income tax or corporation tax as the case may be. Please note that this summary does not describe the tax considerations for holders of Ferrari common shares and, if applicable Ferrari special voting shares who are individuals and derive benefits from Ferrari common shares and, if applicable Ferrari special voting shares that are a remuneration or deemed to be a remuneration in connection with past, present or future employment performed in The Netherlands or management activities and functions or membership of a management board ( bestuurder ) or a supervisory board ( commissaris ) of a Netherlands resident entity by such holder or certain individuals related to such holder (as defined in The Dutch Income Tax Act 2001). Taxes on income and capital gains A Non-resident holder (as defined above) of Ferrari common shares and, if applicable, Ferrari special voting shares will not be subject to any Dutch taxes on income or capital gains in respect of any benefits derived or deemed to be derived by such holder from such holder’s Ferrari common shares and, if applicable, Ferrari special voting shares, including any capital gain realized on the disposal thereof, unless: 1. such holder derives profits from an enterprise directly, or pursuant to a co-entitlement to the net value of such enterprise, other than as a holder of securities, which enterprise either is managed in the Netherlands or carried on, in whole or in part, through a permanent establishment or a permanent representative which is taxable in the Netherlands, and such holder’s Ferrari common shares and, if applicable, Ferrari special voting shares are attributable to such enterprise; or 2. such holder is an individual and such holder derives benefits from Ferrari common shares and, if applicable, Ferrari special voting shares that are taxable as benefits from miscellaneous activities ( resultaat uit overige werkzaamheden ) in the Netherlands. Such holder may, inter alia, derive, or be deemed to derive, benefits from Ferrari common shares and, if applicable, Ferrari special voting shares that are taxable as benefits from miscellaneous activities if such holder’s investment activities go beyond the activities of an active portfolio investor, for instance in the case of use of insider knowledge or comparable forms of special knowledge. Benefits derived or deemed to be derived from certain miscellaneous activities by a child or a foster child who is under eighteen years of age are attributed to the parent who exercises, or the parents who exercise, authority over the child, irrespective of the country of residence of the child. Dividend withholding tax Ferrari is generally required to withhold Dutch dividend withholding tax at a rate of 15 percent from dividends distributed by it. As an exception to this rule, Ferrari may not be required to withhold Dutch dividend withholding tax from Non-Resident holders of shares (as defined above) if it is considered to be a tax resident of both the Netherlands and Italy, in accordance with the domestic tax residency provisions applied by each of these jurisdictions, while the double tax treaty between the Netherlands and Italy attributes the tax residency exclusively to Italy. 135 Gift and inheritance taxes If a holder of Ferrari common shares and, if applicable, Ferrari special voting shares disposes of Ferrari common shares and, if applicable, Ferrari special voting shares by way of gift, in form or in substance, or if a holder of Ferrari common shares and, if applicable, Ferrari special voting shares who is an individual dies, no Dutch gift tax or Dutch inheritance tax, as applicable, will be due, unless: i.    the donor is, or the deceased was, resident or deemed to be resident in the Netherlands for purposes of Dutch gift tax or Dutch inheritance tax, as applicable; or ii.    the donor made a gift of Ferrari common shares and, if applicable, Ferrari special voting shares, then became a resident or deemed resident of the Netherlands, and died as a resident or deemed resident of the Netherlands within 180 days of the date of the gift. For purposes of the above, a gift of Ferrari common shares and, if applicable, Ferrari special voting shares made under a condition precedent is deemed to be made at the time the condition precedent is satisfied. Value Added Tax No Dutch value added tax will arise in respect of any payment in consideration for the issue of Ferrari common shares and, if applicable, Ferrari special voting shares. Registration taxes and duties No Dutch registration tax, transfer tax, stamp duty or any other similar documentary tax or duty, other than court fees, is payable in the Netherlands by a holder in respect of or in connection with (i) the subscription, issue, placement or allotment of Ferrari common shares and, if applicable, Ferrari special voting shares, (ii) the enforcement by way of legal proceedings (including the enforcement of any foreign judgment in the courts of the Netherlands) of the documents relating to the issue of Ferrari common shares and, if applicable, Ferrari special voting shares or the performance by Ferrari of Ferrari’s obligations under such documents, or (iii) the transfer of Ferrari common shares and, if applicable, Ferrari special voting shares. Material Italian Income Tax Consequences This section describes solely the material Italian tax consequences of acquiring, holding, and disposing of Ferrari common shares and, if applicable, Ferrari special voting shares. It does not consider every aspect of Italian taxation that may be relevant to a particular holder of Ferrari common shares and, if applicable, Ferrari special voting shares in special circumstances or who is subject to special treatment under applicable law, and it is not intended to be applicable in all respects to all classes of investors. Shareholders and any potential prospective investors should consult their own tax advisors regarding the Italian tax consequences of acquiring, holding, and disposing of Ferrari common shares and, if applicable, Ferrari special voting shares in their particular circumstances and should investigate the nature and the origin of the amounts received as distributions in connection with the Ferrari common shares (dividends or reserves). Where in this section English terms and expressions are used to refer to Italian concepts, the meaning to be given to these terms and expressions shall be the meaning to be given to the equivalent Italian concepts under Italian tax law. This summary assumes that Ferrari common shares will be listed on a regulated market. This summary also assumes that Ferrari is organized, and that the business will be conducted, in the manner outlined in this report. A change to the organizational structure or to the manner in which Ferrari conducts its business may invalidate the contents of this section, which will not be updated to reflect any such change. This summary is based on the tax laws of the Republic of Italy and case law / practice (unpublished case law / practice is not included) as it stands at the date of this report. The law upon which this description is based is subject to change, potentially with retroactive effect. Any such change may invalidate the contents of this description, which will not be updated to reflect this change. 136 Definitions In this section, the following terms have the meaning defined below: • “CITA”: Presidential Decree No. 917 of December 22, 1986 (the Consolidated Income Tax Act); • “EEA State”: a State that is party to the European Economic Area Agreement; • “IRES”: Italian corporate income tax; • • “Italian White List”: the list of countries and territories allowing a satisfactory exchange of information with Italy currently included in the Italian Ministerial Decree of September 3, 1996, as subsequently amended by Ministerial Decree 9 August 2016, published on the Official Gazette n. 195 of 22 August 2016. The list is expected to be updated each six months. Countries can be removed from the list if their tax authorities consistently do not co-operate with the Italian tax authorities on the exchange of tax information; • “Non-Qualified Holdings”: holdings of common shares in Ferrari, including rights or securities through which Ferrari common shares may be acquired, other than Qualified Holdings; • “Qualified Holdings”: holdings of common shares in Ferrari, including rights or securities through which Ferrari common shares may be acquired, that represent, in case of shares listed on regulated markets, either (i) more than two percent of the overall voting rights exercisable at ordinary shareholders’ meetings or (ii) an interest in Ferrari’s issued and outstanding capital in excess of 5 percent; and • “Transfer of Qualified Holdings”: transfers of common shares in Ferrari, including rights or securities through which Ferrari common shares may be acquired, that exceed, over a period of 12 (twelve) months, the threshold for qualifying as Qualified Holdings. The twelve-month period starts from the date when the shares, securities and the rights owned represent a percentage of voting rights or interest in Ferrari’s capital that exceeds the aforesaid thresholds. In case of rights or securities through which Ferrari common shares may be acquired, the percentage of voting rights or interest in Ferrari’s capital potentially attributable to the holding of such rights and securities is taken into account. Law No. 208 of December, 28 2015, the so-called “2016 stability law” (“Finance Act 2016”), has reduced from 27.5 percent to 24 percent the IRES rate(except for banks and other financial intermediaries) and consequently resulted in the reduction from 1.375 percent to 1.2 percent the withholding tax rate on dividends paid to companies and entities that are (a) resident for tax purposes in an EU Member State or in an EEA Member State that is included in the Italian White List and (b) subject to corporate income tax in such State. In both cases the aforesaid reductions apply with effect for fiscal years following the fiscal year that is current on December 31, 2016 (i.e., from 2017 for taxpayers that follow the calendar year). Because of the IRES rate reduction, the income inclusion percentages of 49.72 percent and 77.74 percent referred to in the paragraphs “Taxation of Dividends” and “Taxation of Capital Gains” should be revised upwards by a decree to be issued by the Ministry of Economy and Finance under the authority of Article 1(64) of Finance Act 2016. The decree to be issued by the Ministry of Economy and Finance will also set forth transitional rules applicable to dividends paid out of profits earned in fiscal years when the applicable IRES rate was 27.5 percent. Taxation of Dividends The tax regime summarized in this subsection “Taxation of Dividends” applies only to classes of holders of Ferrari common shares and, if applicable, Ferrari special voting shares that are described here below. Dividends paid by Ferrari are subject to the tax regime generally applicable to dividends paid by companies that are resident for tax purposes in the Republic of Italy. 137 The tax regime may vary as follows. (A) I TALIAN R ESIDENT P ERSONS (i) Individuals not engaged in business activity Under Decree No. 600 of September 29, 1973 (“Decree 600”), dividends paid to Italian resident individuals who hold the Ferrari common shares neither in connection with a business activity nor in the context of the discretionary investment portfolio regime (" risparmio gestito" ) as defined in subparagraph (A)(ii) below are subject to 26 percent tax withheld at source in Italy if the common shares in Ferrari held by such individuals represent Non-Qualified Holdings. In this case, the holders are not required to report the dividends in their income tax returns. Dividends paid to Italian resident individuals who do not hold the Ferrari common shares in connection with a business activity are not subject to any tax withheld at source in Italy if the Ferrari common shares held by such individuals represent Qualified Holdings, provided that, in this case, the holders declare at the time of receipt that the dividends relate to Qualified Holdings. In this case, dividends must be reported in the income tax return, but only 49.72 percent of such dividends are included in the holder’s overall income taxable in Italy. (ii) Individuals not engaged in business activity and holding the Ferrari common shares under the “risparmio gestito” regime Dividends paid to Italian resident individuals who do not hold the Ferrari common shares in connection with a business activity are not subject to any tax withheld at source in Italy if (a) the common shares in Ferrari held by such individuals represent Non-Qualified Holdings, (b) the holder has entrusted the management of the shares to an authorized intermediary under a discretionary asset management contract, and (c) the holder has elected for the discretionary investment portfolio regime (" risparmio gestito" ) under Article 7 of Legislative Decree No. 461 of November 21, 1997 (“Decree 461”). In this case, the dividends are included in the annual accrued management result ( risultato maturato annuo di gestione ), which is subjected to a 26 percent substitute tax. (iii) Sole Proprietors Dividends paid to Italian resident individuals who hold the Ferrari common shares in connection with a business activity (“Sole Proprietors”) are not subject to any tax withheld at source in Italy, provided that, in this case, the holders declare at the time of receipt that the profits collected are from holdings connected with their business activity. In this case, dividends must be reported in the income tax return, but only 49.72 percent of such dividends are included in the holder’s overall business income taxable in Italy. (iv) Partnerships (Italian “società in nome collettivo”, “società in accomandita semplice”, “società semplici ” and similar Italian partnerships as referred to in Article 5 CITA), as well as companies and other business entities referred to in Article 73(1)(a)-(b) CITA No Italian tax is withheld at source on dividends paid to Italian partnerships (such as Italian “ società in nome collettivo ”,  “ società in accomandita semplice”, “società semplici ” and similar partnerships as referred to in Article 5 CITA). Only 49.72 percent of such dividends are included in the overall income to be reported by the partnership. No Italian tax is withheld at source on dividends paid to Italian resident companies and other Italian resident business entities as referred to in Article 73(1)(a)-(b) CITA, including, among others, corporations (" società per azioni" ), partnerships limited by shares (" società in accomandita per azioni" ), limited liability companies (" società a responsabilità limitata" ) and public and private entities whose sole or primary purpose is to carry out business activities. Only 5 percent of the dividends are included in the overall business income subject to IRES, unless the common shares in Ferrari are booked as shares held for trading by holders that apply IAS / IFRS international accounting standards under Regulation No. 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and Council of July 19, 2002. In this latter case, the full amount of the dividends is included in the holder’s overall business income subject to IRES. For some types of companies and under certain conditions, dividends are also partially included in the net value of production, which is subject to the regional tax on productive activities (“IRAP”). 138 (v) Non-business entities referred to in Article 73(1)(c) CITA No Italian tax is withheld at source on dividends paid to Italian resident non-business entities referred to in Article 73(1)(c) CITA (including Italian resident trusts that do not carry out a business activity), except for Italian collective investment vehicles (“OICR”). Only 77.74 percent of the dividends are included in the holder’s overall income subject to IRES. (vi) Persons exempt from IRES and persons outside the scope of IRES Dividends paid to Italian resident persons that are exempt from IRES are generally subject to 26 percent tax withheld at source. No Italian tax is instead withheld at source on dividends paid to persons that are outside the scope of IRES (" esclusi" ) under Article 74(1) CITA. (vii) Pension funds and OICR (other than Real Estate AIF) No Italian tax is withheld at source on dividends paid to (a) Italian pension funds governed by Legislative Decree No. 252 of December 5, 2005 (“Decree 252”) and (b) Italian OICR, other than real estate investment funds and Italian real estate SICAFs (real estate alternative investment funds, “Real Estate AIF”). Dividends received by Italian pension funds are taken into account to compute the pension fund’s net annual accrued yield, which is subject to a 20 percent flat tax (" imposta sostitutiva" ). Under certain conditions and up to certain limits, income received in relation to qualified medium-and long-term financial investments by pension funds may be exempt from income tax in the hands of such pension funds, under Article 1 (94) of Law No. 232 of December 11, 2016, the so called "2017 Italian budget law" ("Budget Act 2017"). Dividends received by OICR that are set up in, and organized under the laws of, Italy and that are subject to regulatory supervision (other than Real Estate AIF) are not subject to taxation at the level of the OICR. (viii) Real Estate AIF No Italian tax is withheld at source on dividends paid to Italian Real Estate AIF. Moreover, dividends are not subject to either IRES or IRAP at the level of the Real Estate AIF. However, income realized by Italian Real Estate AIF is attributed pro rata to Italian resident unitholders / shareholders, irrespective of any actual distribution, on a tax transparency basis if the Italian resident unitholders / shareholders are not institutional investors and hold units / shares in the Real Estate AIF representing more than 5 percent of the Real Estate AIF’s net asset value. (B) N ON -I TALIAN R ESIDENT P ERSONS (i) Non-resident persons holding the common shares in Ferrari through a permanent establishment in Italy No Italian tax is withheld at source on dividends paid to non-resident persons that hold the common shares in Ferrari through a permanent establishment in Italy to which the common shares in Ferrari are effectively connected. Only 5 percent of the dividends are included in the overall income subject to IRES, unless the common shares in Ferrari are booked as shares held for trading by holders that apply IAS / IFRS international accounting standards under Regulation No. 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and the Council of July 19, 2002. In this latter case, the full amount of the dividends is included in the overall business income subject to IRES. For some types of businesses and under certain conditions, dividends are also partially included in the net value of production, which is subject to IRAP. If dividends are paid with respect to common shares in Ferrari that are not connected with a permanent establishment in Italy of a non-resident person, please see subparagraph (B)(ii) below. (ii) Non-resident persons that do not hold the common shares in Ferrari through a permanent establishment in Italy A 26 percent tax withheld at source generally applies on dividends paid to non-resident persons that do not have a permanent establishment in Italy to which the common shares in Ferrari are effectively connected. 139 Subject to a specific application that must be submitted to the Italian tax authorities under the terms and conditions provided by law, non-resident holders are entitled to relief (in the form of a refund), which cannot be greater than 11/26 (eleven twenty-sixths) of the tax levied in Italy, if they can demonstrate that they have paid final tax abroad on the same profits. Holders who may be eligible for the relief should consult with their own independent tax advisors to determine whether they are eligible for, and how to obtain, the tax refund. As an alternative to the relief described above, persons resident in countries that have a double tax treaty in force with Italy may request that the withholding tax on dividends be levied at the (reduced) rate provided under the applicable tax treaty. The domestic withholding tax rate on dividends is 1.2 percent (and not 26 percent) if the recipients and beneficial owners of the dividends on Ferrari common shares are companies or entities that are (a) resident for tax purposes in an EU Member State or in an EEA State that is included in the Italian White List and (b) subject to corporate income tax in such State. These companies and entities are not entitled to the relief described above. As a result of the IRES rate reduction provided for by Finance Act 2016 the withholding tax rate was reduced from 1.375 percent to 1.2 percent with effect for fiscal years following the fiscal year that is current on December 31, 2016 (i.e., from 2017 for taxpayers that follow the calendar year). The domestic withholding tax rate on dividends is 11 percent (and not 26 percent) if the recipients and beneficial owners of the dividends on Ferrari common shares are pension funds that are set up in an EU Member States or an EEA Member State included in the Italian White List. These pension funds are not entitled to the relief described above. Under certain conditions and up to certain limits, the aforesaid 11 percent withholding tax does not apply in relation to dividends deriving from qualified medium-and long-term financial investments if the recipients and beneficial owners are pension funds that are set up in an EU Member States or an EEA Member State included in the Italian White List under Article 1(95) of the Budget Act 2017. Under Article 27- bis of Decree 600, which implemented in Italy Directive 435/90/EEC of July 23, 1990, then recast in EU Directive 2011/96 of November 30, 2011 (the “Parent Subsidiary Directive”), a company is entitled to a full refund of the withholding tax levied on the dividends if it (a) has one of the legal forms provided for in the appendix to the Parent Subsidiary Directive, (b) is resident for tax purposes in an EU Member State without being considered to be resident outside the EU according to a double tax treaty signed with a non-EU country, (c) is subject in the country of residence to one of the taxes indicated in the appendix to the Parent Subsidiary Directive with no possibility of benefiting from optional or exemption regimes that have no territorial or time limitations, and (d) directly holds common shares in Ferrari that represent an interest in the issued and outstanding capital of Ferrari of no less than 10 percent for an uninterrupted period of at least one year. If these conditions are met, and as an alternative to submitting a refund request after the dividend distribution, the non-resident company may request that no tax be levied at the time the dividends are paid, provided that (x) the 1-year holding period under condition (d) above has already run and (y) the non-resident company promptly submits proper documentation. In case of transactions put in place for the sole or main purposes of obtaining a tax advantage that defeats the object or purpose of the Parent Subsidiary Directive, Italian tax authorities may deny the refund or challenge the exemption trough the general anti-avoidance provision set forth by Article 10-bis of Law No. 212 of July 27, 2000. Under the Agreement between the European Community and the Swiss Confederation providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in Council Directive 2003/48/EC on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments, the withholding tax refund / exemption regime described above also applies to dividends paid to a company that (a) is resident for tax purposes in Switzerland without being considered to be resident outside Switzerland according to a double tax treaty signed with a non-EU country, (b) is a limited company, (c) is subject to Swiss corporate tax without being exempted or benefiting from preferential tax regimes, and (d) directly holds common shares in Ferrari that represent an interest in Ferrari’s issued and outstanding capital of no less than 25 percent for an uninterrupted period of at least two years. Dividends distributed to international entities or bodies that benefit from exemption from taxation in Italy pursuant to international rules or treaties entered into force in Italy will not be subject to withholding tax. (iii) U.S. holders (without permanent establishment in Italy) of Ferrari common shares and, if applicable, Ferrari special voting shares If Ferrari is considered to be a tax resident of both Italy and the Netherlands, in accordance with the domestic tax residency provisions applied by each of these jurisdictions, while the double tax treaty between Italy and the Netherlands attributes the tax residency exclusively to Italy, Ferrari will be required to apply Italian dividend withholding tax on dividends distributed to U.S. holders of Ferrari common shares and, if applicable, Ferrari special voting shares. However, certain U.S. holders of Ferrari common shares and, if applicable, Ferrari special voting shares may qualify for full or partial relief from the Italian dividend withholding tax under the Convention between the Government of the United States of America and the Government 140 of the Italian Republic for the avoidance of double taxation with respect to taxes on income and the prevention of fraud or fiscal evasion signed in Washington, D.C. on August 25, 1999 (the “Italy-U.S. Treaty”). On the basis of Article 10 of the Italy-U.S. Treaty, (a) qualifying U.S. holders are entitled to a reduced Italian dividend withholding tax rate (i.e., 15 percent); (b) qualifying U.S. companies are entitled, under certain conditions, to a reduced Italian dividend withholding tax rate (5 percent) and (c) certain qualified U.S. governmental entities are entitled, under certain conditions, to a full exemption from Italian dividend withholding tax. Taxation of distributions of Equity Reserves The tax regime summarized in this subsection “Taxation of distributions of Equity Reserves” applies only to classes of holders of Ferrari common shares and, if applicable, Ferrari special voting shares that are described here below. The information provided in this subsection summarizes the Italian tax regime applicable to the distributions by Ferrari - other than in case of reduction of excess capital, withdrawal, exclusion, redemption or liquidation - of equity reserves as referred to under Article 47(5) CITA, such as, for instance, reserves or other funds formed with share premiums, equalizing interests (" interessi di conguaglio" ) paid in by the subscribers, equity (other than share capital) contributions (" versamenti a fondo perduto" ) or share capital account payments (" versamenti in conto capitale" ) made by shareholders and tax-exempt revaluation reserves (the “Equity Reserves”). (A) I TALIAN R ESIDENT P ERSONS (i) Individuals not engaged in business activity Regardless of what holders have resolved upon in the shareholders’ meeting, the amounts received as distribution out of Equity Reserves of Ferrari by Italian resident individuals who do not hold the Ferrari common shares in connection with a business activity are deemed to be, and treated as, profits for the recipients to the extent that Ferrari has current year profits and retained profits (except for any portion thereof earmarked to a tax-deferred reserve or non-distributable reserves). Amounts treated as profits are subject to the same tax regime described above for dividends. Amounts received as distributions out of Equity Reserves, net of any amount already treated as profits as per the above, reduce the holder’s tax basis in Ferrari common shares correspondingly. Distributions out of Equity Reserves that are in excess of the holders’ tax basis in the Ferrari common shares are treated as dividends for tax purposes. Special rules may apply if the individual holders have elected with regard to the common shares in Ferrari into the discretionary investment portfolio regime (" regime del risparmio gestito" ) described in subparagraph (A)(i) of the subsection “Taxation of Capital Gains” below. (ii) Sole Proprietors, business partnerships (Italian “società in nome collettivo,” “società in accomandita semplice” and similar Italian partnerships as referred to in Article 5 CITA), as well as companies and other business entities referred to in Article 73(1)(a)-(b) CITA Regardless of what holders have resolved upon in the shareholders’ meeting, the amounts received as distribution out of Equity Reserves of Ferrari by Italian Sole Proprietors, Italian business partnerships (Italian “ società in nome collettivo ,” “ società in accomandita semplice ” and similar Italian partnerships as referred to in Article 5 CITA), and Italian resident companies and other business entities referred to in Article 73(1)(a)-(b) CITA are deemed to be, and are treated as, profits for the recipients to the extent that Ferrari has current year profits and retained profits (except for any portion thereof earmarked to a tax-deferred reserve or non-distributable reserves). Amounts treated as profits should be subject to the same tax regime described above for dividends. Amounts received as distributions out of Equity Reserves, net of any amount already treated as profits as per the above, reduce the holder’s tax basis in the Ferrari common shares correspondingly. Distributions out of Equity Reserves that are in excess of the holders’ tax basis in the common shares in Ferrari are treated as capital gains for tax purposes and should be subject to the same regime described in the subsection “Taxation of Capital Gains” below. (iii) Non-business entities referred to in Article 73(1)(c) CITA Amounts received by Italian resident non-business entities referred to in Article 73(1)(c) CITA as distributions out of Equity Reserves, net of any amount already treated as profits as per the rules described in subparagraph (A)(i) above, reduce the holder’s tax basis in the Ferrari common shares correspondingly. Distributions out of Equity Reserves that are in excess of the holders’ tax basis in the common shares in Ferrari not held in connection with a business activity are treated as dividends for tax purposes. (iv) Persons exempt from IRES 141 Amounts received by Italian resident persons exempt from IRES as distributions out of Equity Reserves, net of any amount already treated as profits as per the rules described in subparagraph (A)(i) above, reduce the holder’s tax basis in the Ferrari common shares correspondingly. Distributions out of Equity Reserves that are in excess of the holders’ tax basis in the common shares in Ferrari not held in connection with a business activity are treated as dividends for tax purposes. (v) Pension funds and OICR (other than Real Estate AIF) Based on a systematic interpretation of the statute, amounts received by Italian pension funds governed by Article 17 of Decree 252 as distributions out of Equity Reserves should be taken into account to compute the pension fund’s net annual accrued yield, which is subject to a 20 percent flat tax (" imposta sostitutiva" ). The value of the common shares in Ferrari at the end of the same tax year should also be included in the net annual accrued yield. Conversely, any amounts received by OICR that are set up in, and organized under the laws of, Italy and that are subject to regulatory supervision (other than Real Estate AIF) as distributions out of Equity Reserves are not subject to taxation at the level of the OICR. (vi) Real Estate AIF Amounts received by Italian Real Estate AIF as distributions out of Equity Reserves are not subject to IRES or IRAP at the level of the Real Estate AIF. However, income realized by Italian Real Estate AIF is attributed pro rata to the Italian resident unitholders / shareholders, irrespective of any actual distribution, on a tax transparency basis if the Italian resident unitholders / shareholders are not institutional investors and hold units / shares in the Real Estate AIF representing more than 5 percent of the Real Estate AIF’s net asset value. (B) N ON -I TALIAN R ESIDENT P ERSONS (i) Non-resident persons that do not hold the common shares in Ferrari through a permanent establishment in Italy For non-Italian resident persons (whether individuals or corporations) without a permanent establishment in Italy to which the common shares in Ferrari are effectively connected, the amounts received as distributions out of Equity Reserves are subject to the same tax regime as applicable to Italian resident individuals not engaged in business activity. Therefore, the amounts received as distributions out of Equity Reserves, net of any amount that has already been treated as profits as per the rules described in subparagraph (A)(i) above, reduce the holder’s tax basis in the Ferrari common shares correspondingly. Distributions out of Equity Reserves that are in excess of the holders’ tax basis in the common shares in Ferrari are treated as dividends for tax purposes. (ii) Non-resident persons holding the common shares in Ferrari through a permanent establishment in Italy For non-Italian resident persons that hold the common shares in Ferrari through a permanent establishment in Italy to which the Ferrari common shares are effectively connected, the amounts received as distributions out of Equity Reserves are subject to the same tax regime as applicable to Italian resident companies and other business entities referred to in Article 73(1)(a)-(b) CITA as described in subparagraph (A)(ii) above. If the Equity Reserves distribution relates to common shares in Ferrari that are not connected to a permanent establishment in Italy of the non-resident recipient, reference must be made to subparagraph (B)(i) above. Taxation of Capital Gains The tax regime summarized in this subsection “Taxation of Capital Gains” applies only to classes of holders of Ferrari common shares and, if applicable, Ferrari special voting shares that are described here below. (A) I TALIAN R ESIDENT P ERSONS (i) Italian resident individuals not engaged in business activity The tax regime of capital gains realized by Italian resident individuals upon transfer for consideration of the common shares in Ferrari (as well as of securities or rights whereby common shares in Ferrari may be acquired), other than capital gains realized in connection with a business activity, depends on whether the transfer is a Transfer of Qualified Holdings. 142 T RANSFER O F Q UALIFIED H OLDINGS . 49.72 percent of the capital gains realized upon Transfers of Qualified Holdings must be included in the individual’s overall taxable income and reported in the individual’s annual income tax return. If the Transfer of Qualified Holdings gives rise to a capital loss, 49.72 percent of such loss may be offset against 49.72 percent of any capital gain of the same nature that is realized in the following years up to the fourth, provided that this capital loss is reported in the income tax return for the year when the capital loss is realized. T RANSFER O F N ON - QUALIFIED H OLDINGS . Capital gains on Non-Qualified Holdings are subject to a 26 percent substitute tax (“CGT”). The taxpayer may opt for any of the following three tax regimes: a. Tax return regime (" regime della dichiarazione" ). Under this regime, capital gains and capital losses realized during the tax year must be reported in the income tax return. CGT is computed on capital gains net of capital losses of the same nature and must be paid by the term for paying the balance of the annual income tax. Capital losses in excess of capital gains may be carried forward and offset against capital gains realized in any of the four following tax years. Capital losses may be carried forward and offset against capital gains of the same nature realized after June 30, 2014, but up to the following amount in case of capital losses realized up to June 30, 2014: (i) 48.08 percent of the relevant capital losses realized before January 1, 2012, and (ii) 76.92 percent of the capital losses realized from January 1, 2012 to June 30, 2014. This regime is the default regime if the taxpayer does not elect into any of the two alternative regimes described in (b) and (c) below. b. Nondiscretionary investment portfolio regime (" risparmio amministrato" ) (optional). Under this regime, CGT is applied separately on capital gains realized on each transfer of common shares in Ferrari. This regime is allowed subject to (x) the Ferrari common shares being managed or in custody with Italian banks, broker-dealers (" società di intermediazione mobiliare" ) or certain authorized financial intermediaries; and (y) an express election for the nondiscretionary investment portfolio regime being made in writing in due time by the relevant holder. Under this regime, the financial intermediary is responsible for accounting for and paying (on behalf of the taxpayer) CGT in respect of capital gains realized on each transfer of the common shares in Ferrari (as well as in respect of capital gains realized at revocation of the intermediary’s mandate), net of any relevant capital losses of the same nature. Capital losses may be carried forward and offset against capital gains of the same nature realized within the same relationship of deposit in the same tax year or in the following tax years up to the fourth. Capital losses may be carried forward and offset against capital gains of the same nature realized after June 30, 2014, but up to the following amount in case of capital losses realized up to June 30, 2014: (i) 48.08 percent of the relevant capital losses realized before January 1, 2012, and (ii) 76.92 percent of the capital losses realized from January 1, 2012 to June 30, 2014. Under this regime, the holder is not required to report capital gains in the annual income tax return. c. Discretionary investment portfolio regime (" risparmio gestito" ) (optional). This regime is allowed for holders who have entrusted the management of their financial assets, including the Ferrari common shares, to an authorized intermediary and have elected in writing into this regime. Under this regime, capital gains accrued on the Ferrari common shares are included in the computation of the annual increase in value of the managed assets accrued (even if not realized) at year end, which is subject to CGT. The managing authorized intermediary applies the tax on behalf of the taxpayer. Any decrease in value of the managed assets accrued at year end may be carried forward and offset against any increase in value of the managed assets accrued in any of the four following tax years. Decreases in value of the managed assets may be carried forward and offset against any subsequent increase in value accrued at July 1, 2014, but up to the following amount in case of decreases in value occurred up to June 30, 2014: (i) 48.08 percent of the relevant decreases in value occurred before January 1, 2012; and (ii) 76.92 percent of the decreases in value occurred from January 1, 2012 to June 30, 2014. Under this regime, the holder is not required to report capital gains in the annual income tax return. (ii) Sole Proprietors and business partnerships (Italian “società in nome collettivo,” “società in accomandita semplice” and similar Italian partnerships as referred to in Article 5 CITA) Capital gains realized by Italian Sole Proprietors and Italian business partnerships (Italian “ società in nome collettivo ,” “ società in accomandita semplice ” and similar Italian partnerships as referred to in Article 5 CITA) upon transfer for consideration of the common shares in Ferrari must be fully included in the overall business income and reported in the annual income tax return. Capital losses (or other negative items of income) derived by this class of holders upon transfer for consideration of the common shares in Ferrari would be fully deductible from the holder’s income. 143 However, if the conditions for the participation exemption regime under subparagraph (A)(iii) below are met, only 49.72 percent of the capital gains must be included in the overall business income. Capital losses realized on common shares in Ferrari that meet the conditions under a and b of subparagraph (A)(iii) below are only partially deductible (similarly to what is provided for the taxation of capital gains). For the purpose of determining capital gains and capital losses, the holder’s tax basis in the Ferrari common shares is reduced by any write-down that the holder has deducted in previous tax years. (iii) Companies and other business entities referred to in Article 73(1)(a)-(b) CITA Capital gains realized by Italian resident companies and other business entities as referred to in Article 73(1)(a)-(b) CITA (including partnerships limited by shares and public and private entities whose sole or primary purpose is carrying out business activity) upon transfer for consideration of the common shares in Ferrari must be fully included in the overall taxable business income subject to IRES in the tax year in which the capital gains are realized or, upon election, may be spread in equal installments over a maximum of five tax years (including the tax year when the capital gain is realized). The election for the installment computation is only available if the common shares in Ferrari have been held for no less than three years and booked as fixed financial assets (" immobilizzazioni finanziarie" ) in the last three financial statements. However, under Article 87 CITA (participation exemption), capital gains realized upon transfer of common shares in Ferrari are 95 percent exempt if both the following requirements are met: a. The common shares in Ferrari have been uninterruptedly held as of the first day of the twelfth month prior to the transfer, treating the Ferrari common shares acquired on the most recent date as being transferred first (on a “last in first out” basis); and b. The common shares in Ferrari have been booked as fixed financial assets in the first financial statements closed during the holding period. In case of holders that draft their financial statements according to IAS / IFRS international accounting standards, the common shares in Ferrari are deemed as fixed financial assets if they are not accounted as “held for trading”. The law lays down certain additional conditions for the exemption to be available. Based on the assumption that Ferrari is a holding company, that its shares are listed on a regulated market, and that pursuant to Article 87(5) CITA its assets are predominantly composed of shareholdings in companies which satisfy the additional conditions set forth by Article 87 CITA in order to enjoy the participation exemption regime (i.e., the companies are not resident in a State with a preferential tax system and carry on a business activity), these additional conditions should be met. The transfer of shares booked as fixed financial assets and shares booked as inventory must be considered separately with reference to each class. If the requirements for the participation exemption are met, any capital loss realized on the common shares in Ferrari cannot be deducted. For the purpose of determining capital gains and capital losses, the holder’s tax basis in the Ferrari common shares is reduced by any write-down that the holder has deducted in previous tax years. Capital losses (as well as negative differences between revenues and costs) relating to shares that do not meet the participation exemption requirements are not relevant (and cannot be deducted) to the extent of the non-taxable amount of dividends (or advance dividend) received by the holder in the 36 (thirty-six) months prior to the transfer (dividend washing rule). This anti-avoidance rule applies to shares acquired in the 36-month period preceding the realization of the capital loss (or the negative difference), provided that requirements under Article 87(1)(c)-(d) CITA (i.e., the company is not resident in a State with a preferential tax system and carries on a business activity) are met. The anti-avoidance rule does not apply to holders that draft their financial statements according to IAS / IFRS international accounting standards under Regulation (EC) No. 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and the Council of July 19, 2002. When the amount of the aforesaid capital losses (and negative differences) deriving from a transaction (or a series of transactions) on shares traded on regulated markets is greater than € 50,000.00, the taxpayer must report the data and the information regarding the transaction to the Italian tax authorities. Moreover, in case of capital losses greater than €5,000,000.00 deriving from the transfer (or a series of transfers) of shares booked as fixed financial assets, the holder must report the data and the information to the Italian tax authorities. Holders that draft their financial statements according to IAS / IFRS international accounting standards are under no such obligation. 144 For some types of companies and under certain conditions, capital gains on common shares in Ferrari are also included in the net value of production that is subject to IRAP. (iv) Non-business entities referred to in Article 73(1)(c) CITA and non-business partnerships referred to in Article 5 CITA Capital gains realized, outside the scope of a business activity, by Italian resident non-business entities referred to in Article 73(1)(c) CITA (other than OICR) and Italian non-business partnerships as referred to in Article 5 CITA are subject to tax under the same rules as provided for capital gains realized by Italian resident individuals who do not hold the Ferrari common shares in connection with a business activity. (v) Pension funds and OICR (other than Real Estate AIF) Capital gains on common shares in Ferrari held by Italian pension funds governed by Decree 252 must be taken into account to compute the pension fund’s net annual accrued yield, which is subject to a 20 percent flat tax (" imposta sostitutiva" ). Under certain conditions and up to certain limits, income received in relation to qualified medium-and long-term financial investments by pension funds may be exempt from income tax in the hands of such pension funds under Article 1(94) of the Budget Act 2017. Capital gains on common shares in Ferrari held by OICRs that are set up in, and organized under the laws of, Italy and that are subject to regulatory supervision (other than Real Estate AIF) are not subject to tax at the level of the OICR. (vi) Real Estate AIF Capital gains on common shares in Ferrari held by Italian Real Estate AIF are not subject to IRES or IRAP at the level of the Real Estate AIF. (B) N ON -I TALIAN R ESIDENT P ERSONS (i) Non-resident persons holding the common shares in Ferrari through a permanent establishment in Italy If non-Italian resident persons hold the common shares in Ferrari through a permanent establishment in Italy to which the common shares in Ferrari are effectively connected, capital gains realized upon disposal of the common shares in Ferrari must be included in the permanent establishment’s income taxable in Italy according to the tax regime as provided for the capital gains realized by Italian resident companies and other business entities as referred to in Article 73(1)(a)-(b) CITA, which is summarized under subparagraph (A)(iii) above. If the common shares in Ferrari are not connected to a permanent establishment in Italy of the non-resident person, reference must be made to subparagraph (B)(ii) below. (ii) Non-resident persons that do not hold the common shares in Ferrari through a permanent establishment in Italy a.    Non-Qualified Holdings. Based on the fact that Ferrari common shares are listed on a regulated market, no tax applies in Italy on capital gains realized by non-Italian resident holders without a permanent establishment in Italy upon transfer for consideration of common shares in Ferrari that do not qualify as Transfers of Qualified Holdings, even if the Ferrari common shares are held in Italy and regardless of the provisions set forth in any applicable double tax treaty. In such case, in order to benefit from this exemption, non-Italian resident holders who hold the Ferrari common shares with an Italian authorized financial intermediary and either are subject to the nondiscretionary investment portfolio regime or have elected for the discretionary investment portfolio regime may be required to timely submit to the Italian authorized financial intermediary an affidavit whereby they state that they are not resident in Italy for tax purposes. 145 b. Qualified Holdings. Capital gains realized by non-Italian resident holders without a permanent establishment in Italy upon Transfers of Qualified Holdings are included in the holder’s income taxable in Italy according to the same rules as applicable to Italian resident individuals not engaged in business activity. These capital gains must be reported in the annual income tax return and cannot be subject to the nondiscretionary investment portfolio regime or the discretionary investment portfolio regime. However, the provisions of double tax treaties entered into by Italy may apply if more favorable. Special voting shares No statutory, judicial or administrative authority directly discusses how the receipt, ownership or disposal of special voting shares should be treated for Italian income tax purposes and as a result, the Italian tax consequences are uncertain. Accordingly, we urge Ferrari shareholders to consult their tax advisors as to the tax consequences of the receipt, ownership and disposal of special voting shares. Receipt of special voting shares A shareholder that receives special voting shares issued by Ferrari should in principle not recognize any taxable income upon the receipt of special voting shares. Under a possible interpretation, the issue of special voting shares can be treated as the issue of bonus shares free of charge to the shareholders out of existing available reserves of Ferrari. Such issue should not have any material effect on the allocation of the tax basis of a shareholder between its Ferrari common shares and its Ferrari special voting shares. Because the special voting shares are not transferable and their limited economic rights can be enjoyed only at the time of the liquidation of Ferrari, we believe and intend to take the position that the fair market value of each special voting share is minimal. However, because the determination of the fair market value of the special voting shares is not governed by any guidance that directly addresses such a situation and is unclear, the Italian tax authorities could assert that the value of the special voting shares as determined by us is incorrect. Ownership of special voting shares Shareholders of special voting shares should not have to recognize income in respect of any amount transferred to the special voting shares dividend reserve, but not paid out as dividends, in respect of the special voting shares. Disposition of special voting shares The tax treatment of a Ferrari shareholder that has its special voting shares redeemed for no consideration after removing its shares from the Loyalty Register is unclear. It is possible that a shareholder should recognize a loss to the extent of the shareholder’s tax basis (if any). The deductibility of such loss depends on individual circumstances and conditions generally required by Italian law. It is also possible that a Ferrari shareholder would not be allowed to recognize a loss upon the redemption of its special voting shares and instead should increase its basis in its Ferrari common shares by an amount equal to the tax basis (if any) in its special voting shares. Transfer tax Contracts or other legal instruments relating to the transfer of securities (including the transfer of the Ferrari common shares) are subject to registration tax as follows: (i) notary deeds (" atti pubblici" ) and private deeds with notarized