MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview Open surgery remains the predominant form of surgery and is used in almost every area of the body. However, the large incisions required for open surgery create trauma to patients, typically resulting in longer hospitalization and recovery times, increased hospitalization costs, and additional pain and suffering relative to minimally invasive surgery (“MIS”), where MIS is available. For over three decades, MIS has reduced trauma to patients by allowing selected surgeries to be performed through small ports rather than large incisions. MIS has been widely adopted for certain surgical procedures. Da Vinci Surgical Systems enable surgeons to extend the benefits of MIS to many patients who would otherwise undergo a more invasive surgery by using computational, robotic, and imaging technologies to overcome many of the limitations of traditional open surgery or conventional MIS. Surgeons using a da Vinci Surgical System operate while seated comfortably at a console viewing a 3D, high-definition image of the surgical field. This immersive console connects surgeons to the surgical field and their instruments. While seated at the console, the surgeon manipulates instrument controls in a natural manner, similar to open surgical technique. Our technology is designed to provide surgeons with a range of articulation of the surgical instruments used in the surgical field analogous to the motions of a human wrist, while filtering out the tremor inherent in a surgeon’s hand. In designing our products, we focus on making our technology easy and safe to use. Our da Vinci products fall into five broad categories: da Vinci Surgical Systems, da Vinci instruments and accessories, da Vinci Stapling, da Vinci Energy, and da Vinci Vision, including Firefly Fluorescence imaging systems (“Firefly”) and da Vinci Endoscopes. We also provide a comprehensive suite of services, training, and education programs. Within our integrated ecosystem, our products are designed to decrease variability in surgery by offering dependable, consistent functionality and user experiences for surgeons seeking better outcomes. We take a holistic approach offering intelligent technology and systems designed to work together to make MIS intervention more available and applicable. We have commercialized the following da Vinci Surgical Systems: the da Vinci standard Surgical System in 1999, the da Vinci S Surgical System in 2006, the da Vinci Si Surgical System in 2009, and the fourth generation da Vinci Xi Surgical System in 2014. We have extended our fourth generation platform by adding the da Vinci X Surgical System, commercialized in the second quarter of 2017, and the da Vinci SP Surgical System, commercialized in the third quarter of 2018. We are early in the launch of our da Vinci SP Surgical System, and we have placed 29 da Vinci SP Surgical Systems in 2019 and have an installed base of 44 as of December 31, 2019. Our plans for the rollout of the da Vinci SP Surgical System include putting systems in the hands of experienced da Vinci users first while we optimize training pathways and our supply chain. We received FDA clearances for the da Vinci SP Surgical System for urological and certain transoral procedures. We also received clearance in South Korea where the da Vinci SP Surgical System may be used for a broad set of procedures. We plan to seek FDA clearances for additional indications for da Vinci SP over time. The success of the da Vinci SP Surgical System is dependent on positive experiences and improved clinical outcomes for the procedures for which it has been cleared as well as securing additional clinical clearances. All da Vinci systems include a surgeon’s console (or consoles), imaging electronics, a patient-side cart, and computational hardware and software. We offer over 80 different multi-port da Vinci instruments to provide surgeons with flexibility in choosing the types of tools needed to perform a particular surgery. These multi-port instruments are generally robotically controlled and provide end effectors (tips) that are similar to those used in either open or laparoscopic surgery. We offer advanced instrumentation for the da Vinci Xi and da Vinci X platforms, including the da Vinci Vessel Sealer Extend and da Vinci Stapler products, to provide surgeons with sophisticated, computer-aided tools to precisely and efficiently interact with tissue. Da Vinci X and da Vinci Xi Surgical Systems share the same instruments whereas the da Vinci Si Surgical System uses instruments that are not compatible with X or Xi systems. We currently offer nine core instruments on our da Vinci SP Surgical System. We plan to expand the SP instrument offering over time. Training technologies include our Intuitive Simulation products, our Intuitive Telepresence remote case observation and telementoring tools, and our dual console for use in surgeon proctoring and collaborative surgery. During the first quarter of 2019, the FDA cleared our Ion endoluminal system to enable minimally invasive biopsies in the lung. Our Ion system extends our commercial offering beyond surgery into diagnostic procedures with this first application. We are introducing the Ion system in the U.S. in a measured fashion while we optimize training pathways and our supply chain and collect additional clinical data. We are early in the launch and have placed 10 Ion systems for commercial use through December 31, 2019, which are not included in our da Vinci Surgical System installed base. We have also placed 6 Ion systems with hospitals for gathering clinical data. The success of new product introductions depends on a number of factors including, but not limited to, pricing, competition, market and consumer acceptance, the effective forecasting and management of product demand, inventory levels, the management of manufacturing and supply costs, and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction. 46 Table of Contents Business Model Overview We generate revenue from the placements of da Vinci Surgical Systems, in sales or sales-type lease arrangements where revenue is recognized up-front or in operating lease transactions and usage-based models where revenue is recognized over time. We earn recurring revenue from the sales of instruments, accessories, and services, as well as the revenue from operating leases. The da Vinci Surgical System generally sells for between $0.5 million and $2.5 million, depending upon the model, configuration, and geography, and represents a significant capital equipment investment for our customers when purchased. Our instruments and accessories have limited lives and will either expire or wear out as they are used in surgery, at which point they need to be replaced. We generally earn between $700 and $3,500 of instrument and accessory revenue per surgical procedure performed, depending on the type and complexity of the specific procedures performed and the number and type of instruments used. We typically enter into service contracts at the time systems are sold or leased at an annual fee between $80,000 and $190,000, depending upon the configuration of the underlying system and composition of the services offered under the contract. These service contracts have generally been renewed at the end of the initial contractual service periods. We generate revenue from the placements of the Ion endoluminal system in a business model consistent with the da Vinci Surgical System model described above. We generate revenue from the placement of Ion systems, and we earn recurring revenue from the sales of instruments and accessories used in biopsies and ongoing system service. We are introducing the Ion system in the U.S. in a measured fashion. For the year ended December 31, 2019, the associated impact to revenue and gross margin was not significant. Recurring Revenue Recurring revenue consists of instrument and accessory revenue, service revenue, and operating lease revenue. Recurring revenue increased to $3.2 billion, or 72% of total revenue in 2019, compared with $2.6 billion, or 71% of total revenue in 2018, and $2.2 billion, or 71% of total revenue in 2017. Instrument and accessory revenue has grown at a faster rate than systems revenue over time. Instrument and accessory revenue increased to $2.4 billion in 2019, compared with $2.0 billion in 2018 and $1.6 billion in 2017. The growth of instrument and accessory revenue largely reflects continued procedure adoption. Service revenue growth has been driven by the growth of the base of installed da Vinci Surgical Systems. The installed base of da Vinci Surgical Systems grew 12% to approximately 5,582 at December 31, 2019; 13% to approximately 4,986 at December 31, 2018; and 13% to approximately 4,409 at December 31, 2017. Service revenue increased to $724 million in 2019, compared with $635 million in 2018 and $573 million in 2017. Intuitive System Leasing Since 2013, we have entered into sales-type and operating lease arrangements directly with certain qualified customers as a way to offer customers flexibility in how they acquire systems and expand their robotic-assisted programs while leveraging our balance sheet. These leases generally have commercially competitive terms as compared with other third-party entities that offer equipment leasing. We have also entered into usage-based arrangements with larger customers that have committed da Vinci programs where we charge for the system and service as the systems are utilized. We include operating and sales-type leases, and systems placed under usage-based arrangements, in our system shipment and installed base disclosures. We exclude operating lease-related revenue, usage-based revenue, and Ion system revenue from our da Vinci Surgical System average selling price (“ASP”) computations. In the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, we shipped 425, 272, and 139 systems, respectively, under lease and usage-based arrangements, of which 384, 229, and 108 systems, respectively, were operating lease and usage-based arrangements. Revenue from operating lease arrangements is generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. More recently, we have entered into usage-based arrangements with certain large customers whereby system and service revenue is recognized as the systems are used. We set operating lease and usage-based pricing at a modest premium relative to purchased systems reflecting the time value of money and, in the case of usage-based arrangements, the risk that system utilization may fall short of anticipated levels. The proportion of revenue recognized from usage-based arrangements has not been significant and has been included in our operating lease metrics herein. Operating lease revenue has grown at a faster rate than overall systems revenue and was $106.9 million, $51.4 million, and $25.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. Generally, lease transactions generate similar gross margins as our sale transactions. As of December 31, 2019, a total of 658 da Vinci Surgical Systems were installed at customers under operating lease or usage-based arrangements. Our system leasing and usage-based models provide customers with flexibility regarding how they acquire or obtain access to our systems. We believe that these alternative financing structures have been effective and well-received, and we are willing to expand the proportion of these structures based on customer demand. As revenue for operating leases and usage-based 47 Table of Contents systems is recognized over time, total systems revenue growth is reduced in a period when the number of operating lease and usage-based placements increases as a proportion of total system placements. Our exposure to the credit risks relating to our lease financing arrangements may increase if our customers are adversely affected by changes in healthcare laws, coverage and reimbursement, economic pressures or uncertainty, or other customer-specific factors. Also, usage-based leases generally contain no minimum payments; therefore, customers may exit such arrangements without paying a financial penalty to us. For some operating lease arrangements, our customers are provided with the right to purchase the leased system at certain points during and/or at the end of the lease term. Revenue generated from customer purchases of systems under operating lease arrangements (“Lease Buyouts”) was $92.8 million, $48.8 million, and $39.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. We expect that revenue recognized from customer exercises of the buyout options will fluctuate based on the timing of when, and if, customers choose to exercise their buyout options. Systems Revenue System placements are driven by procedure growth in most markets. In geographies where da Vinci procedure adoption is in an early stage, system sales will precede procedure growth. System placements also vary due to seasonality largely aligned with hospital budgeting cycles. We typically place a higher proportion of annual system placements in the fourth quarter and a lower proportion in the first quarter as customer budgets are reset. Systems revenue grew 19% to $1,346 million in 2019; 21% to $1,127 million in 2018; and 16% to $928 million in 2017. Systems revenue is also affected by the proportion of system placements under operating lease and usage-based arrangements, recurring operating lease and usage-based revenue, operating lease buyouts, product mix, ASPs, trade-in activities, and customer mix. Procedure Mix / Products Our da Vinci Surgical Systems are generally used for soft tissue surgery for areas of the body between the pelvis and the neck, primarily in general surgery, gynecologic surgery, urologic surgery, cardiothoracic surgery, and head and neck surgery. Within these categories, procedures range in complexity from cancer and other highly complex procedures to less complex procedures for benign conditions. Cancer and other highly complex procedures tend to be reimbursed at higher rates than less complex procedures for benign conditions. Thus, hospitals are more sensitive to the costs associated with treating less complex, benign conditions. Our strategy is to provide hospitals with attractive clinical and economic solutions across the spectrum of procedure complexity. Our fully featured da Vinci Xi Surgical System with advanced instruments, including the EndoWrist Vessel Sealer and EndoWrist Stapler products, and our Integrated Table Motion product targets the more complex procedure segment. Our da Vinci X Surgical System is targeted towards price sensitive markets and procedures. Our da Vinci SP Surgical System complements the da Vinci Xi and X Surgical Systems by enabling surgeons to access narrow workspaces. Procedure Seasonality More than half of da Vinci procedures performed are for benign conditions, most notably hernia repairs, hysterectomies, and cholecystectomies. These benign procedures and other short-term elective procedures tend to be more seasonal than cancer operations and surgeries for other life threatening conditions. Seasonality in the U.S. for these procedures for benign conditions typically results in higher fourth quarter procedure volume when more patients have met annual deductibles and lower first quarter procedure volume when deductibles are reset. Seasonality outside the U.S. varies and is more pronounced around local holidays and vacation periods. Distribution Channels We provide our products through direct sales organizations in the U.S., Europe (excluding Spain, Portugal, Italy, Greece, and most Eastern European countries), China, Japan, South Korea, India, and Taiwan. In May and December 2018, we began direct operations in India and Taiwan, respectively. In January 2019, our Intuitive-Fosun joint venture began direct sales for da Vinci products and services in China. In the remainder of our OUS markets, we provide our products through distributors. 48 Table of Contents Regulatory Activities Overview Our products must meet the requirements of a large and growing body of international standards that govern the product safety, efficacy, advertising, labeling, safety reporting design, manufacture, materials content and sourcing, testing, certification, packaging, installation, use, and disposal of our products. Examples of such standards include electrical safety standards, such as those of the International Electrotechnical Commission, and composition standards, such as the Reduction of Hazardous Substances and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directives. Failure to meet these standards could limit our ability to market our products in those regions that require compliance to such standards. Our products and operations are also subject to increasingly stringent medical device, privacy, and other regulations by regional, federal, state, and local authorities. We anticipate that timelines for the introduction of new products and/or indications may be extended relative to past experience as a result of these regulations. Clearances and Approvals We have generally obtained the clearances required to market our products associated with our da Vinci Surgical Multiport Systems (Standard, S, Si, Xi, and X systems) for our targeted surgical specialties within the U.S., South Korea, Japan, and the European markets in which we operate. Between 2017 and 2019, we obtained regulatory clearances for the following products: • In November 2019, we obtained FDA clearance for our SynchroSeal instrument and E-100 generator. • In July 2019, we obtained FDA clearance for our SureForm 45 Curved-Tip stapler and SureForm 45 Gray reload, which round out our SureForm 45 portfolio. • In June 2019, we received CE mark clearance for our da Vinci Endoscope Plus for the da Vinci X/Xi Surgical Systems in Europe. Following the CE mark, in July 2019, we obtained FDA clearance for our da Vinci Endoscope Plus. • In June 2019, we obtained FDA clearance for our da Vinci Handheld Camera. • In February 2019, we obtained FDA clearance for our Ion endoluminal system, our new flexible, robotic-assisted, catheter-based platform, designed to navigate through very small lung airways to reach peripheral nodules for biopsies. We are introducing the Ion endoluminal system in a measured fashion while we optimize training pathways and our supply chain and collect additional clinical data. We have placed 10 Ion systems for commercial use through December 31, 2019. • In February 2019, we obtained FDA clearance for our IRIS augmented reality product. IRIS is a service that delivers a 3D image of the patient anatomy (initially targeting kidneys) to aid surgeons in both pre- and intra-operative settings. We are in the early stages of an IRIS pilot study in the field at a small group of U.S. hospitals to gain initial product experience and insights. • In December 2018, we received regulatory clearance for our da Vinci Xi Surgical System in China. The Xi clearance does not include advanced energy or stapling products that attach to the Xi system. Separate clearances are required for each of these products by China National Medical Products Administration (“NMPA”). • In October 2018, the China National Health Commission published on its official website the quota for major medical equipment to be imported and sold in China through 2020. The government will allow the sale of 154 new surgical robots into China, which could include da Vinci Surgical Systems as well as surgical systems introduced by others. As of December 31, 2019, we have sold 57 da Vinci Surgical Systems under this quota. Future sales of da Vinci Surgical Systems under the quota are uncertain, as they are dependent on hospitals completing a tender process and receiving associated approvals. • In July 2018, we obtained FDA clearance to market SureForm 60, our da Vinci EndoWrist 60mm Stapler. In January 2019, we obtained FDA clearance to market SureForm 45. We have also received regulatory clearance in South Korea and Japan to market SureForm 60 and SureForm 45 and 60. • In May 2018, we obtained FDA clearance for the da Vinci SP Surgical System for urologic surgical procedures that are appropriate for a single port approach. In March 2019, we obtained FDA clearance for the da Vinci SP Surgical System for certain transoral procedures. We also received regulatory clearance for the da Vinci SP Surgical System in South Korea in May 2018. We continue to introduce the da Vinci SP Surgical System in a measured fashion while we optimize training pathways and our supply chain. We have placed 29 da Vinci SP Surgical Systems in 2019 and have an installed base of 44 as of December 31, 2019. • In April 2018, we obtained FDA clearance for our da Vinci Vessel Sealer Extend. • In April 2017, we received CE mark clearance for our da Vinci X Surgical System in Europe. Following the CE mark, in May 2017, we obtained FDA clearance to market our da Vinci X Surgical System in the U.S. We received regulatory clearance for the da Vinci X Surgical System in South Korea and Japan in September 2017 and April 2018, respectively. Regulatory clearances for the da Vinci X Surgical System may be received in other markets over time. 49 Table of Contents Refer to the descriptions of our products that received regulatory clearances in 2019 and 2018 in the New Product Introductions section below. The Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor, and Welfare (“MHLW”) considers reimbursement for procedures in April of even-numbered years. The process for obtaining reimbursement requires Japanese university hospitals and surgical societies, with our support, to seek reimbursement. There are multiple pathways to obtain reimbursement for procedures, including those that require in-country clinical data/economic data. In April 2012 and April 2016, the MHLW granted reimbursement status for da Vinci Prostatectomy (“dVP”) and partial nephrectomy, respectively. Most prostatectomies and partial nephrectomies were open procedures prior to da Vinci reimbursement. Da Vinci procedure reimbursement for dVP and partial nephrectomy procedures are higher than open procedure reimbursements. An additional 12 da Vinci procedures were granted reimbursement effective April 1, 2018, including gastrectomy, low anterior resection, lobectomy, and hysterectomy, for both malignant and benign conditions. These additional 12 reimbursed procedures have varying levels of conventional, laparoscopic penetration and will be reimbursed at rates equal to the conventional, laparoscopic procedures. Given the reimbursement level and laparoscopic penetration for these 12 procedures, there can be no assurance that adoption will occur or that the adoption pace for these procedures will be similar to any other da Vinci procedures. If these procedures are not adopted and we are not successful in obtaining adequate procedure reimbursements for additional procedures, then the demand for our products in Japan could be limited. Recalls and Corrections Medical device companies have regulatory obligations to correct or remove medical devices in the field that could pose a risk to health. The definition of “recalls and corrections” is expansive and includes repair, replacement, inspections, relabeling, and issuance of new or additional instructions for use or reinforcement of existing instructions for use and training when such actions are taken for specific reasons of safety or compliance. These field actions require stringent documentation, reporting, and monitoring worldwide. There are other actions that a medical device manufacturer may take in the field without reporting including, but not limited to, routine servicing and stock rotations. As we determine whether a field action is reportable in any regulatory jurisdiction, we prepare and submit notifications to the appropriate regulatory agency for the particular jurisdiction. Regulators can require the expansion, reclassification, or change in scope and language of the field action. In general, upon submitting required notifications to regulators regarding a field action that is a recall or correction, we will notify customers regarding the field action, provide any additional documentation required in their national language, and arrange, as required, return or replacement of the affected product or a field service visit to perform the correction. Field actions as well as certain outcomes from regulatory activities can result in adverse effects on our business, including damage to our reputation, delays by customers of purchase decisions, reduction or stoppage of the use of installed systems, and reduced revenue as well as increased expenses. Procedures We model patient value as equal to procedure efficacy / invasiveness . In this equation, procedure efficacy is defined as a measure of the success of the surgery in resolving the underlying disease and invasiveness is defined as a measure of patient pain and disruption of regular activities. When the patient value of a da Vinci procedure is greater than that of alternative treatment options, patients may benefit from seeking out surgeons and hospitals that offer da Vinci Surgery, which could potentially result in a local market share shift. Adoption of da Vinci procedures occurs procedure by procedure and market by market and is driven by the relative patient value and total treatment costs of da Vinci procedures as compared to alternative treatment options for the same disease state or condition. Worldwide Procedures Our da Vinci systems and instruments are regulated independently in various countries and regions of the world. The discussion of indications for use and representative or target procedures is intended solely to provide an understanding of the market for da Vinci products and is not intended to promote for sale or use any Intuitive Surgical product outside of its licensed or cleared labeling and indications for use. The adoption of robotic-assisted surgery using the da Vinci Surgical System has the potential to grow for those procedures that offer greater patient value than non-da Vinci alternatives and competitive total economics for healthcare providers. Our da Vinci Surgical Systems are used primarily in general surgery, gynecologic surgery, urologic surgery, cardiothoracic surgery, and head and neck surgery. We focus our organization and investments on developing, marketing, and training products and services for procedures in which da Vinci can bring patient value relative to alternative treatment options and/or economic benefit to healthcare providers. Target procedures in general surgery include hernia repair (both ventral and inguinal) and colorectal procedures. Target procedures in gynecology include da Vinci hysterectomy (“dVH”), for both cancer and benign conditions, and sacrocolpopexy. Target procedures in urology include da Vinci prostatectomy (“dVP”) and da Vinci partial nephrectomy. In cardiothoracic surgery, target procedures include da Vinci lobectomy and da Vinci mitral valve repair. In head 50 Table of Contents and neck surgery, target procedures include certain procedures resecting benign and malignant tumors classified as T1 and T2. Not all the indications, procedures, or products described may be available in a given country or region or on all generations of da Vinci Surgical Systems. Surgeons and their patients need to consult the product labeling in their specific country and for each product in order to determine the cleared uses, as well as important limitations, restrictions, or contraindications. In 2019, approximately 1,229,000 surgical procedures were performed with da Vinci Surgical Systems, compared with approximately 1,038,000 and 877,000 surgical procedures performed with da Vinci Surgical Systems in 2018 and 2017, respectively. The growth in our overall procedure volume in 2019 was driven by growth in U.S. general surgery procedures and worldwide urology procedures. U.S. Procedures Overall U.S. procedure volume with da Vinci Surgical Systems grew to approximately 883,000 in 2019, compared with approximately 753,000 in 2018 and approximately 644,000 in 2017. General surgery was our largest and fastest growing U.S. specialty in 2019 with procedure volume that grew to approximately 421,000 in 2019, compared with approximately 325,000 in 2018 and approximately 246,000 in 2017. Gynecology was our second largest U.S. surgical specialty in 2019 with procedure volume that grew to approximately 282,000 in 2019, compared with approximately 265,000 in 2018 and approximately 252,000 in 2017. Urology was our third largest U.S. surgical specialty in 2019 with procedure volume that grew to approximately 138,000 in 2019, compared with approximately 128,000 in 2018 and approximately 118,000 in 2017. Procedures Outside of the U.S. Overall OUS procedure volume with da Vinci Surgical Systems grew to approximately 346,000 in 2019, compared with approximately 285,000 in 2018 and approximately 233,000 in 2017. Procedure growth in most OUS markets was driven largely by urology procedure volume, which grew to approximately 206,000 in 2019, compared with approximately 175,000 in 2018 and approximately 149,000 in 2017. General surgery and gynecology procedures also contributed to OUS procedure growth. Recent Business Events and Trends Procedures Overall. Total da Vinci procedures grew approximately 18% for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared with approximately 18% for the year ended December 31, 2018. U.S. procedure growth was approximately 17% for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared with approximately 17% for the year ended December 31, 2018. 2019 U.S. procedure growth was largely attributable to growth in general surgery procedures, most notably hernia repair, cholecystectomy, colorectal, and bariatric procedures. U.S. procedure growth was also driven by growth in thoracic procedures, as well as moderate growth in more mature urologic and gynecologic procedure categories. Procedure volume OUS grew approximately 21% for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared with approximately 22% for the year ended December 31, 2018. 2019 OUS procedure growth was driven by continued growth in urologic procedures, including prostatectomies and nephrectomies, and earlier stage growth in general surgery (particularly colorectal), gynecologic, and thoracic procedures. We believe growth in these global markets is being driven by increased acceptance among surgeons and health systems, supported by expanded global evidence validating the clinical and economic value of da Vinci procedures. U.S. General Surgery. In 2019, general surgery was our largest and fastest growing specialty in the U.S. with procedure volume that grew to approximately 421,000 in 2019, compared with approximately 325,000 in 2018 and approximately 246,000 in 2017. Inguinal and ventral hernia repairs contributed the most incremental procedures in 2019, as they did in 2018 and 2017. We believe that growth in da Vinci hernia repair reflects improved clinical outcomes within certain patient populations, as well as potential cost benefits relative to certain alternative treatments. We believe hernia repair procedures represent a significant opportunity with the potential to drive growth in future periods. However, given the differences in surgical complexity associated with treatment of various hernia patient populations and varying surgeon opinion regarding optimal surgical technique, it is difficult to estimate the timing of and to what extent da Vinci hernia repair procedure volume will grow in the future. We expect a large portion of hernia repairs will continue to be performed via different modalities of surgery. Adoption of da Vinci for colorectal procedures, which includes several underlying procedures including low anterior resections for rectal cancers and certain colon procedures for benign and cancerous conditions, has been ongoing for several years and is supported by our recently launched technologies, such as the EndoWrist Staplers and energy devices and Integrated Table Motion. During 2019, we have seen increasing contributions to growth from other U.S. general surgery procedures, including cholecystectomy and bariatric procedures. Given the already very high level of laparoscopic techniques used in cholecystectomy, it is unclear whether growth is sustainable and to what extent da Vinci cholecystectomy may be adopted. Our third quarter 2018 introduction of the SureForm 60mm stapler product provides surgeons a better optimized robotic tool set for bariatric procedures. 51 Table of Contents U.S. Gynecology . In 2019, growth in gynecology procedures in the U.S. increased modestly compared to 2018. Procedure volume was approximately 282,000 in 2019, compared with approximately 265,000 in 2018 and approximately 252,000 in 2017, driven by growth in benign hysterectomy procedures and, to a lesser extent, growth in hysterectomy for cancer. Combining robotic, laparoscopic, and vaginal approaches, MIS represents about 80% of the U.S. hysterectomy market for benign conditions. We believe that our growth in gynecologic procedures over the past several years has primarily been driven by consolidation of gynecologic procedures into higher volume surgeons that focus on cancer and complex surgeries. Global Urology. Along with U.S. general surgery, global urology procedures have also been a strong contributor to our overall procedure growth. In the U.S., dVP is the standard of care for the surgical treatment of prostate cancer, and we believe growth is largely aligned with surgical volumes of prostate cancer. 2019 growth in U.S. dVP procedures was consistent with growth in 2018. For OUS, dVP is at varying states of adoption in different areas of the world but is the largest overall da Vinci procedure. 2019 growth in OUS dVP procedures was consistent with growth in 2018. Kidney cancer procedures have also been a strong contributor to our recent global urology procedure growth. Clinical publications have demonstrated that the use of a da Vinci system increases the likelihood that a patient will receive nephron sparing surgery through a partial nephrectomy, which is typically the surgical society guideline recommended therapy. OUS Procedures . The 2019 OUS procedure growth rate reflects continued da Vinci adoption in European and Asian markets. In 2018 and the first quarter of 2019, procedure growth in China moderated, as the previous systems quota expired at the end of 2015 and the systems installed in China are highly utilized. In October 2018, the China National Health Commission announced a new quota to allow the sale of 154 new surgical robots into China through 2020, which could include da Vinci Surgical Systems. This quota applies to the da Vinci Si and recently approved da Vinci Xi Surgical Systems (refer to the previous discussion in the “Clearances and Approvals” section), as well as competitors’ products when and if cleared by NMPA. Sales of da Vinci Surgical Systems under the quota are uncertain, as they are dependent on provincial allocation processes and hospitals completing a tender process and receiving associated approvals. In the last three quarters of 2019, procedure growth in China accelerated, as initial systems placed during these quarters provided additional capacity in the field. In Japan, we experienced strong procedure growth after receiving the national reimbursements for dVP and partial nephrectomy in 2012 and 2016, respectively. However, as adoption for these procedures has progressed towards higher levels of penetration, growth in these two urologic procedures has moderated. A total of 12 additional da Vinci procedures were granted national reimbursement status effective April 1, 2018, including gastrectomy, low anterior resection, lobectomy, and hysterectomy, for both malignant and benign conditions. Procedure growth in Japan has accelerated since the new procedures were granted reimbursement status. However, these additional 12 reimbursed procedures have varying levels of conventional laparoscopic penetration and are reimbursed at rates equal to the conventional laparoscopic procedures. Given the reimbursement level and laparoscopic penetration for these procedures, there can be no assurance that adoption will occur or that the adoption pace for these procedures will be similar to any other da Vinci procedures. If these procedures are not adopted and we are not successful in obtaining adequate procedure reimbursement for additional procedures, then the demand for our products in Japan could be limited. System Demand Future demand for da Vinci Surgical Systems will be impacted by factors including hospital response to the evolving healthcare environment under the current U.S. administration, procedure growth rates, hospital consolidation trends, evolving system utilization and point of care dynamics, capital replacement trends, additional reimbursements in various global markets, including Japan, the timing around governmental tenders and authorizations, including China, the timing of when we receive regulatory clearance in our other OUS markets for our da Vinci Xi Surgical System, da Vinci X Surgical System, and da Vinci SP Surgical System, and related instruments, market response as well as other economic and geopolitical factors. Market acceptance of our recently launched da Vinci SP Surgical System and the nature and timing of additional da Vinci SP regulatory indications may also impact future system placements. Demand may also be impacted by robotic surgery competition, including from companies that have introduced products in the field of robotic surgery or have made explicit statements about their efforts to enter the field including, but not limited to, the following companies: Avatera Medical GmbH; CMR Surgical Limited; Johnson & Johnson (including their wholly-owned subsidiaries Auris Health, Inc. and Verb Surgical Inc.); Medicaroid Inc.; MedRobotics Corp.; Medtronic plc; meerecompany Inc.;  Olympus Corp.; Samsung Corporation; Smart Robot Technology Group Co. Ltd.; Titan Medical, Inc.; TransEnterix, Inc.; and Wego Holding Co., Ltd. Many of the above factors will also impact future demand for our recently cleared Ion system, as we extend our commercial offering into diagnostics, along with additional factors associated with a new product introduction, including, but not limited to, our ability to optimize manufacturing and our supply chain, competition, clinical data to demonstrate value, and market acceptance. New Product Introductions SynchroSeal and E-100 Generator. In November 2019, we obtained FDA clearance for our SynchroSeal instrument and E-100 generator. SynchroSeal is a single-use, bipolar, electrosurgical instrument intended for grasping, dissection, sealing, and transection of tissue. With its wristed articulation, rapid sealing cycle, and refined curved jaw, SynchroSeal offers enhanced 52 Table of Contents versatility to the da Vinci Energy portfolio. The E-100 generator is an electrosurgical generator developed to power two key instruments – Vessel Sealer Extend and SynchroSeal – on the da Vinci X and Xi Surgical Systems. The generator delivers high frequency energy for cutting, coagulation, and vessel sealing of tissues. SureForm 45 Curved-Tip and Gray Reload. In July 2019, we obtained FDA clearance for the SureForm 45 Curved-Tip stapler and SureForm 45 Gray reload. SureForm 45 Curved-Tip is a single-use, fully wristed stapling instrument with a curved tip intended for resection, transection, and/or creation of anastomoses. SureForm 45 Gray reload is a new, single-use cartridge that contains multiple staggered rows of implantable staples and a stainless steel knife. The SureForm 45 Curved-Tip stapler and Gray reload have particular utility in thoracic procedures and round out our SureForm 45 portfolio. Not all reloads or staplers are available for use on all systems or in all countries. Da Vinci Endoscope Plus. In June 2019, we received CE mark clearance in Europe for our da Vinci Endoscope Plus, an enhanced 3D endoscope for use with our da Vinci X and Xi Surgical Systems. Following the CE mark, in July 2019, we obtained FDA clearance for our da Vinci Endoscope Plus. The da Vinci Endoscope Plus leverages new sensor technology to allow for increased sharpness and color accuracy. The da Vinci Endoscope Plus is currently available in Europe and is expected to launch in the U.S. later in 2019. Da Vinci Handheld Camera. In June 2019, we obtained FDA clearance for our da Vinci Handheld Camera, a lightweight, 2D camera head, which can be connected to third-party laparoscopes. This allows the laparoscopic image to be displayed on the da Vinci X/Xi vision cart to address aspects of da Vinci procedures that may require use of a laparoscope, thus eliminating the need for redundant equipment in the operating room and increasing procedure efficiency. We are introducing the da Vinci Handheld Camera in a measured fashion in 2019 with a broad launch expected in early 2020. Ion endoluminal system. In February 2019, we obtained FDA clearance for the Ion endoluminal system, our new flexible, robotic-assisted, catheter-based platform designed to navigate through very small lung airways to reach peripheral nodules for biopsies. The Ion system uses an ultra-thin articulating robotic catheter that can move 180 degrees in all directions. The outer diameter of the catheter is 3.5mm, which allows physicians to navigate through small and tortuous airways to reach nodules in most airway segments within the lung. The Ion system’s flexible biopsy needle can also pass through very tight bends via Ion’s catheter to collect tissue in the peripheral lung. The catheter’s 2mm working channel can also accommodate other biopsy tools, such as biopsy forceps or cytology brushes, if necessary. We are introducing Ion in a measured fashion while we optimize training pathways and our supply chain and collect additional clinical data. We have placed 10 Ion systems for commercial use as of December 31, 2019. IRIS. In February 2019, we obtained FDA clearance for our IRIS augmented reality product. IRIS is a service that delivers a 3D image of the patient anatomy (initially targeting kidneys) to aid surgeons in both the pre- and intra-operative settings. We are now in the early stages of an IRIS pilot study in the field at a small group of U.S. hospitals to gain initial product experience and insights. SureForm 60 and SureForm 45 Staplers. In July 2018, we obtained FDA clearance for the SureForm 60 instrument with White, Blue, Green, and Black 60mm reloads. In January 2019, we obtained FDA clearance for the SureForm 45 instrument with White, Blue, Green, and Black 45mm reloads. Additionally, we received regulatory clearance in South Korea for the SureForm 60 instrument and 60mm reloads in June 2018 and July 2018, respectively, and for the SureForm 45 instrument and 45mm reloads in June 2019 and September 2019, respectively. Also, we received regulatory clearance in Japan for the SureForm 60 instrument and 60mm reloads in June 2018 and November 2018, respectively, and for the SureForm 45 instrument and 45mm reloads in September 2019. The SureForm 60 and SureForm 45 Staplers are single-use, fully wristed stapling instruments intended for resection, transection, and/or creation of anastomoses. The SureForm 60 instrument has particular utility in bariatric procedures, while the SureForm 45 instrument has particular utility in colorectal procedures. SureForm 60 and SureForm 45 Staplers broaden our existing stapler product line, which also includes EndoWrist Stapler 45 with White, Blue, and Green 45mm reloads and EndoWrist Stapler 30 with White, Blue, Green, and Gray 30mm reloads. Not all reloads or staplers are available for use on all systems or in all countries. Da Vinci SP Surgical System. In May 2018, we obtained FDA clearance for the da Vinci SP Surgical System for urologic surgical procedures that are appropriate for a single port approach. In March 2019, we obtained FDA clearance for the da Vinci SP Surgical System for certain transoral procedures. The da Vinci SP Surgical System includes three, multi-jointed, wristed instruments and the first da Vinci fully wristed, 3DHD camera. The instruments and the camera all emerge through a single cannula and are triangulated around the target anatomy to avoid external instrument collisions that can occur in narrow surgical workspaces. The system enables flexible port placement and broad internal and external range of motion (e.g., 360 degrees of anatomical access) through the single SP arm. Surgeons control the fully articulating instruments and the camera on the da Vinci SP Surgical System, which uses the same fourth generation surgeon console as the da Vinci X and Xi Surgical Systems. The da Vinci SP Surgical System provides surgeons with robotic-assisted technology designed for deep and narrow access to tissue in the body. We anticipate pursuing further regulatory clearances for the da Vinci SP Surgical System, including colorectal applications, broadening the applicability of the SP platform over time. We continue to introduce the da Vinci SP 53 Table of Contents Surgical System in a measured fashion while we optimize training pathways and our supply chain. We have placed 29 da Vinci SP Surgical Systems in 2019 and have an installed base of 44 as of December 31, 2019. Da Vinci Vessel Sealer Extend. In April 2018, we obtained FDA clearance for da Vinci Vessel Sealer Extend, our newest instrument in the Vessel Sealing family of products. Da Vinci Vessel Sealer Extend is a single-use, fully wristed bipolar electrosurgical instrument compatible with our fourth generation multiport systems. It is intended for grasping and blunt dissection of tissue and for bipolar coagulation and mechanical transection of vessels up to 7mm in diameter and tissue bundles that fit in the jaws of the instrument. Da Vinci X Surgical System. In May 2017, we launched a new da Vinci model, the da Vinci X, in the U.S. The da Vinci X system provides surgeons and hospitals with access to some of the most advanced fourth generation da Vinci surgery technology at a lower cost. The da Vinci X system uses the same vision cart and surgeon console that are found on our flagship product, the da Vinci Xi system. For new customers, the da Vinci X system provides a cost effective capital entry point while providing a pathway for upgrading to other fourth generation systems. Existing customers may negotiate to trade in their older da Vinci systems in order to standardize their robotics programs onto the fourth generation platform, choosing which system model by considering clinical and economic factors. The da Vinci X system enables optimized, focused-quadrant surgery, including procedures like prostatectomy, hernia repair, and benign hysterectomy, among others. The system features flexible port placement and 3D digital optics, while incorporating the same advanced instruments and accessories as the da Vinci Xi. The da Vinci X system drives operational efficiencies through set-up technology that uses voice and laser guidance, drape design that simplifies surgery preparations, and a lightweight, fully integrated endoscope. Acquisition of Certain Assets from Schölly Fiberoptic In July 2019, we entered into an agreement to acquire certain assets and operations from Schölly Fiberoptic GmbH (“Schölly”), a supplier of endoscopes and other visualization equipment (the "Schölly Acquisition"). On August 31, 2019, upon the satisfaction of closing conditions, we acquired control of these assets and operations, which collectively met the definition of a business. Total purchase consideration of $101.4 million, as of the acquisition date, consisted of an initial cash payment of $34.4 million and deferred cash payments totaling approximately $67.0 million, of which $37.3 million continues to be deferred as of December 31, 2019. The timing of the future payments is based upon achieving certain integration steps, which are expected to be completed around the end of 2020. The process to manufacture endoscopes is complex, and there can be no assurance that we can successfully integrate or operate the endoscope manufacturing operations of the acquired business. For example, we may be unable to retain the employees of Schölly or its current suppliers. The integration process will be complex and involves the integration of manufacturing operations across multiple sites globally. The integration may require expenses and time in excess of expectations. Integrating the Schölly Acquisition will also involve getting certain regulatory approvals and re-certification of manufacturing sites. If we cannot successfully integrate or manufacture endoscopes subsequent to the Schölly Acquisition, it may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 2019 Operational and Financial Highlights • Total revenue increased by 20% to $4.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared with $3.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018. • Approximately 1,229,000 da Vinci procedures were performed during the year ended December 31, 2019, an increase of 18% compared with approximately 1,038,000 da Vinci procedures for the year ended December 31, 2018. • Instruments and accessories revenue increased by 23% to $2.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared with $2.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018. • Systems revenue increased by 19% to $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared with $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018. • A total of 1,119 da Vinci Surgical Systems were shipped during the year ended December 31, 2019, an increase of 21% compared with 926 systems during the year ended December 31, 2018. • As of December 31, 2019, we had a da Vinci Surgical System installed base of approximately 5,582 systems, an increase of 12% compared with the installed base of approximately 4,986 systems as of December 31, 2018. • During the year ended December 31, 2019, we began commercial sales of the Ion system and shipped the first 10 commercial systems. • Gross profit as a percentage of revenue was 69.4% for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared with 69.9% for the year ended December 31, 2018. • Operating income increased by 15% to $1.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared with $1.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018. Operating income included $338 million and $263 million of share-based 54 Table of Contents compensation expense related to employee stock plans and $67.2 million and $31.6 million of intangible asset charges for the years ended December 31, 2019, and 2018, respectively. • As of December 31, 2019, we had $5.8 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and investments. Cash, cash equivalents, and investments increased by $1.0 billion compared with December 31, 2018. Results of Operations This section of the Form 10-K generally discusses 2019 and 2018 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2019 and 2018. Discussions of 2017 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2018 and 2017 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in "