Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—COVID-19 Pandemic” below, including the past and potential future recommendations of authorities to defer elective procedures, historical procedure patterns have been and may continue to be disrupted. Customer Support We have a network of field service and technical support engineers across the U.S., Canada, Europe, and Asia and maintain relationships with various distributors around the globe. This infrastructure of service and support specialists, along with advanced service tools and solutions, offers a full complement of services for our customers, including installation, repair, maintenance, 24/7 technical support, and proactive system health monitoring. We generate service revenue by providing these services to our customers through comprehensive service contracts and time and material programs. Research and Development We focus our research and development efforts on innovation and improvement for products and services that align with our mission: We believe that minimally invasive care is life-enhancing care. Through ingenuity and intelligent technology, we believe that we can expand the potential of physicians to heal without constraints. We employ engineering and research and development staff to focus on delivering future innovations and sustaining improvements that advance our mission. In certain instances, we complement our research and development effort through collaborations with other companies, such as our Integrated Table Motion product offering developed with Hillrom (now a part of Baxter International Inc.). Manufacturing We manufacture our systems at our facilities in Sunnyvale, California, and Peachtree Corners, Georgia, as well as at our Joint Venture’s facility in Shanghai, China. Our instruments and accessories are produced at our facilities in Sunnyvale, California, and Mexicali, Mexico. Additionally, we have Ion-related manufacturing in Blacksburg, Virginia, and Shanghai, China, and endoscope-related manufacturing at multiple sites in Germany. We are also planning to open a new manufacturing facility in Bulgaria. We purchase both custom and off-the-shelf components from a large number of suppliers and subject them to stringent quality specifications and processes. Some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole-sourced suppliers (the only recognized supply source available to us) or single-sourced suppliers (the only approved supply source for us among other sources). We purchase the majority of our components and major assemblies through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of finished goods relative to our anticipated demand. Competition We face competition in the forms of existing open surgery, conventional MIS, drug therapies, radiation treatment, and other emerging diagnostic and interventional surgical approaches. Some of these procedures are widely accepted in the medical community and, in many cases, have a long history of use. Our success depends on continued clinical and technical innovation, quality, and reliability, as well as educating hospitals, surgeons, and patients on the demonstrated results associated with robotic-assisted medical procedures using da Vinci surgical systems or Ion endoluminal systems and their value relative to other techniques. We also face competition from several companies that have introduced or are developing new approaches and products for the MIS market. We believe that the entrance or emergence of competition validates MIS and robotic-assisted surgery or robotic-assisted bronchoscopy. Moreover, as we add new robotically controlled products (e.g., da Vinci stapling and da Vinci energy products) that compete with product offerings traditionally within the domains of open surgery and/or conventional MIS, we face greater competition from larger and well-established companies, such as Johnson & Johnson and Medtronic plc. Additionally, we currently face, or anticipate facing, competition from companies with products used in open or MIS surgeries, including laparoscopy and alternative multi-port, single-port, or endoluminal systems. We also compete with companies providing other therapeutic approaches for addressing target clinical conditions, as well as companies developing diagnostic solutions that could serve as alternatives to current or planned Intuitive offerings. Companies that have introduced products in the field of robotic-assisted medical procedures, or have made explicit statements about their efforts to enter the field, include, but are not limited to, the following: Beijing Surgerii Robotics Company Limited; CMR Surgical Ltd.; Distalmotion SA; Harbin Sizhe Rui Intelligent Medical Equipment Co., Ltd.; Johnson & Johnson; Karl Storz SE & Co. KG; Medicaroid Corporation; Medtronic plc; meerecompany Inc.; Noah Medical; Shandong Weigao Group Medical Polymer Company Ltd.; Shanghai Microport Medbot (Group) Co., Ltd.; Shenzhen Edge Medical Co., Ltd.; and SS Innovations International, Inc. Other companies with substantial experience in industrial robotics could potentially expand into the field of medical robotics and become a competitor. In addition, research efforts utilizing computers and robotics for medical procedures 14 Table of Contents are underway at various companies and research institutions. Our revenues may be adversely impacted as our competitors announce their intent to enter our markets and as our customers anticipate the availability of competing products. We may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position against current or potential competitors, especially those with greater resources. Intellectual Property We place considerable importance on obtaining and maintaining patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products, and processes. We generally rely upon a combination of intellectual property laws, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology. For example, we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that provide distinctive identification of our products in the marketplace. We also have exclusive and non-exclusive patent licenses with various third parties to supplement our own robust patent portfolio. As of December 31, 2024, we owned more than 5,300 patents granted and still in force and more than 2,400 patents pending worldwide. We intend to continue filing new patent applications in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions to seek protection for our technology. Patents have finite terms. The expiration of a patent ends the exclusive rights accorded by the patent for the invention claimed. Government Regulation Our products and operations are subject to regulation in the U.S. by the FDA and the State of California as well as by other countries and regions in which we market and promote our products. In addition, our products must meet the requirements of a large and growing body of international regulations and standards, which govern the design, manufacture, materials content and sourcing, testing, certification, packaging, installation, use, and disposal of our products. We must continually keep abreast of these regulations, standards, and requirements and integrate our compliance into the development and regulatory documentation for our products. Failure to meet these requirements could limit our ability to market our products in those regions that require compliance with such regulations and standards. Examples of standards to which we are subject include electrical safety standards, such as those of the International Electrotechnical Commission (e.g., IEC 60601-ss series of standards), and composition regulations, such as the Reduction of Hazardous Substances (“RoHS”) and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) Directives applicable in the European Union (“EU”). U.S. Regulation FDA Our products are subject to regulation as medical devices in the United States under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (“FFDCA”), as implemented and enforced by the FDA. The FDA regulates the development, design, non-clinical and clinical research, manufacturing, safety, efficacy, labeling, packaging, storage, installation, recordkeeping, complaint and adverse event reporting, clearance, approval, certification, promotion, marketing, export, import distribution, and service of medical devices in the U.S. to ensure that medical devices distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. Under the FFDCA, medical devices are classified into one of three classes—Class I, Class II, or Class III—depending on the degree of risk associated with each medical device and the extent of control needed to ensure safety and effectiveness. Our current products are Class II medical devices. Class II medical devices are those that are subject to general controls, and most require premarket demonstration of adherence to certain performance standards or other special controls, as specified by the FDA, and special controls as deemed necessary by the FDA to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the device. These special controls can include performance standards, post-market surveillance, patient registries, and FDA guidance documents. Manufacturers of most Class II devices are required to submit to the FDA a premarket notification under Section 510(k) of the FFDCA requesting authorization to commercially distribute the device. The FDA’s authorization to commercially distribute a device subject to a 510(k) premarket notification is generally known as 510(k) clearance. Our current products are subject to premarket notification and clearance under section 510(k) of the FFDCA. To obtain 510(k) clearance, we must submit to the FDA a premarket notification submission demonstrating that the proposed device is “substantially equivalent” to a legally marketed predicate device. The FDA may require additional information, including clinical data, to make a determination regarding substantial equivalence. In addition, the FDA collects user fees for certain medical device submissions and annual fees for medical device establishments. If the FDA agrees that the device is substantially equivalent to a predicate device, it will grant clearance to commercially market the device in the U.S. The FDA has a statutory 90-day period to respond to a 510(k) submission; however, as a practical 15 Table of Contents matter, clearance often takes longer. The FDA may require further information, including clinical data, to make a determination regarding substantial equivalence. If the FDA determines that the device, or its intended use, is not “substantially equivalent,” the device may be designated as a Class III device. The device sponsor must then fulfill more rigorous PMA requirements or can request a risk-based classification determination for the device in accordance with the de novo classification pathway, which is a route to market for novel medical devices that are low to moderate risk and are not substantially equivalent to a predicate device. The PMA process is more demanding than the 510(k) premarket notification process. In a PMA application, the manufacturer must demonstrate that the device is safe and effective, and the PMA application must be supported by extensive data, including data from preclinical studies and human clinical trials. The FDA, by statute and regulation, has 180 days to review a PMA application, although the review more often occurs over a significantly longer period of time and can take up to several years. In approving a PMA application or clearing a 510(k) submission, the FDA may also require some additional manufacturing controls, design control activities and approvals, as well as specific post-market surveillance requirements when necessary to protect the public health or to provide additional safety and effectiveness data for the device. In such cases, the manufacturer might be required to follow certain patient groups for a number of years and make periodic reports to the FDA on the clinical status of those patients. Clinical trials are almost always required to support a PMA or de novo request and are sometimes required to support a 510(k) submission. All clinical investigations designed to determine the safety and effectiveness of a medical device must be conducted in accordance with the FDA’s investigational device exemption (“IDE”) regulations, which govern investigational device labeling, prohibit the promotion of the investigational device, and specify an array of recordkeeping, reporting and monitoring responsibilities of study sponsors and study investigators. Regardless of the degree of risk presented by the medical device, clinical studies must be approved by, and conducted under the oversight of, an Institutional Review Board (“IRB”) for each clinical site. During a study, the sponsor is required to comply with the applicable FDA requirements, including, for example, trial monitoring, selecting clinical investigators and providing them with the investigational plan, ensuring IRB review, adverse event reporting, record keeping, and prohibitions on the promotion of investigational devices or on making safety or effectiveness claims for them. The clinical investigators in the clinical study are also subject to the FDA’s regulations and must obtain patient informed consent, rigorously follow the investigational plan and study protocol, control the disposition of the investigational device, and comply with all reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Additionally, after a trial begins, we, the FDA, or the IRB could suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time for various reasons, including a belief that the risks to study subjects outweigh the anticipated benefits. After a device receives 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change or modification in its intended use, will require a new 510(k) clearance or, depending on the modification, PMA approval or de novo classification. The FDA requires each manufacturer to determine whether a proposed change requires submission of a 510(k), de novo classification, or a PMA or PMA supplement in the first instance, but the FDA can review any such decision and disagree with a manufacturer’s determination. If the FDA disagrees with a manufacturer’s determination, the FDA can require the manufacturer to cease marketing and/or request the recall of the modified device until it receives the appropriate marketing authorization. Also, in these circumstances, the manufacturer may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. In addition, the FDA may place significant limitations upon the intended use of our products as a condition of granting marketing authorization. Moreover, after a device is placed on the market, numerous FDA and other regulatory requirements continue to apply. These requirements include establishment registration and device listing with the FDA; compliance with medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA if their device caused or contributed, or may have caused or contributed, to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur; compliance with corrections and removal reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA field corrections and product recalls or removals if undertaken to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the FFDCA that may present a risk to health; the FDA’s recall authority, whereby the agency can order device manufacturers to recall from the market a product that is in violation of governing laws and regulations; and post-market surveillance activities and regulations, which apply when deemed by the FDA to be necessary to protect the public health or to provide additional safety and effectiveness data for the device. In addition, the FDA and the Federal Trade Commission also regulate the advertising and promotion of our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, that there is scientific data to substantiate the claims, and that our advertising is neither false nor misleading. In general, we may not promote or advertise our products for uses not within the scope of our intended use statement in our clearances or make unsupported safety and effectiveness claims. Our manufacturing processes are required to comply with the Quality System Regulation (“QSR”). The QSR covers, among other things, the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, testing, controlling, documenting, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, installation, and servicing of all medical devices intended for human use. The QSR also requires maintenance of extensive records, which demonstrate compliance with the FDA regulation, the manufacturer’s 16 Table of Contents own procedures, specifications, and testing, as well as distribution and post-market experience. Compliance with the QSR is necessary for a manufacturer to be able to continue to market cleared or approved product offerings in the U.S. A company’s facilities, records, and manufacturing processes are subject to periodic scheduled or unscheduled inspections by the FDA. Failure to maintain compliance with applicable QSR requirements could result in the shut-down of, or restrictions on, manufacturing operations and the recall or seizure of marketed products. If the FDA determines that a manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, it can take a variety of compliance or enforcement actions, which may result in any of the following sanctions: • warning letters, untitled letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees, administrative penalties, and civil or criminal penalties; • recalls, withdrawals, or administrative detention or seizure of our products; • operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • refusing or delaying requests for 510(k) marketing clearance or PMA approvals of new products or modified products; • withdrawing 510(k) clearances or PMA approvals that have already been granted; • refusal to grant export approvals for our products; or • criminal prosecution. In addition, the discovery of previously unknown problems with any marketed products, including unanticipated adverse events or adverse events of increasing severity or frequency, whether resulting from the use of the device within the scope of its clearance or off-label by a physician in the practice of medicine, could result in restrictions on the device, including the removal of the product from the market or voluntary or mandatory device recalls. Products manufactured outside of the U.S. by or for us are subject to U.S. Customs and FDA inspection upon entry into the U.S. We must demonstrate compliance of such products with U.S. regulations and carefully document the eventual distribution or re-exportation of such products. Failure to comply with all applicable regulations could prevent us from having access to products or components critical to the manufacture of finished products and lead to shortages and delays. Other Healthcare Regulatory Laws We are subject to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we research, market, sell and distribute our products. Restrictions under applicable federal and state healthcare laws and regulations, include the following: • the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, individuals and entities from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward, or in return for, either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, under a federal and state healthcare program such as Medicare and Medicaid. A person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation; • the federal criminal and civil false claims laws, including the federal False Claims Act, which can be enforced through civil whistleblower or qui tam actions against individuals or entities, and the Federal Civil Monetary Penalties Laws, which prohibit, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment that are false or fraudulent, knowingly making, using or causing to be made or used, a false record or statement material to a false or fraudulent claim, or from knowingly making a false statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government. In addition, certain marketing practices, including off-label promotion, may also violate false claims laws. Moreover, the government may assert that a claim including items and services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal False Claims Act; • the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (“HIPAA”), which imposes criminal and civil liability, prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, or knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services; similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation; 17 Table of Contents • the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which requires certain manufacturers of covered drugs, devices, biologics, and medical supplies that are reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid, or the Children’s Health Insurance Program, with certain exceptions, to report annually to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) information on certain payments and other transfers of value to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists, and chiropractors), teaching hospitals, and certain other health care providers (such as physician assistants and nurse practitioners), as well as ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members; • analogous state and foreign laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, which may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including private insurers; and • certain state laws that require medical device manufacturers to comply with the industry’s voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government in addition to requiring such manufacturers to report information related to payments to clinicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures. Violations of any of these laws may result in significant penalties, including but not limited to the following: civil, criminal, and administrative penalties; damages; fines; disgorgement; imprisonment; the curtailment or restructuring of operations; loss of eligibility to obtain approvals from the FDA; exclusion from participation in government contracting, healthcare reimbursement, or other government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid; integrity oversight and reporting obligations; or reputational harm. Foreign Regulation In order for us to market our products in countries outside the United States, we must obtain regulatory approvals or certifications and comply with extensive product quality system and composition regulations in other countries. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals, clearance, or certifications and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. Some countries have regulatory review processes that are substantially longer than U.S. processes. Failure to obtain regulatory approval or certification in a timely manner and meet all of the local requirements, including language and specific safety standards, in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products could prevent us from marketing products in such countries or subject us to sanctions and fines. China China has its own regulatory agency, the National Medical Products Administration (“NMPA”). They require regulatory approvals and compliance with extensive safety and quality system regulations. Failure to obtain regulatory approval or failure to comply with any regulation may negatively impact our ability to generate revenue and harm our business. In addition to product registration approvals, our system sales into China are also dependent on obtaining importation authorizations and provincial approvals, as well as hospitals completing a tender and hospital listing process under the authorization. In June 2023, the China National Health Commission published the 14 th five-year plan quota for major medical equipment to be sold in China on its official website (the “2023 Quota”). Under the 2023 Quota, the government will allow for the sale of 559 new surgical robots into China, which could include da Vinci surgical systems as well as surgical systems introduced by others. Sales of da Vinci surgical systems under the quota are uncertain, as they are dependent on hospitals completing a tender process and receiving associated approvals. Japan Most medical devices must undergo thorough safety examinations and demonstrate medical efficacy before they receive regulatory approval to be sold in Japan. We obtained approval from the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor, and Welfare (“MHLW”) for our da Vinci Si surgical system in October 2012, for our da Vinci Xi surgical system in March 2015, and for our da Vinci X surgical system in April 2018. In September 2022, we received regulatory clearance for the da Vinci SP surgical system in Japan for the same set of procedures as can be performed on the da Vinci Xi surgical system in Japan. We have received national reimbursement status in Japan for a number of procedures since the approval of our first da Vinci surgical system in 2012. An additional eight da Vinci procedures were granted reimbursement in April 2022, including colon resection, and an additional five da Vinci procedures were granted reimbursement in April 2024, including lobectomy for benign conditions. In addition, we received higher reimbursement for da Vinci gastrectomy procedures, as compared to open and conventional laparoscopic procedure reimbursements, and higher reimbursement for certain da Vinci rectal resection procedures, as compared to open procedure reimbursements. The additional reimbursed procedures have varying levels of conventional laparoscopic penetration and will generally be reimbursed at rates equal to the conventional laparoscopic procedures. Given the reimbursement level and laparoscopic penetration for these additional procedures, there can be no assurance that the adoption pace for these procedures will be similar to prostatectomy or partial nephrectomy, given their higher reimbursement, or any other da Vinci procedure. If these procedures are not adopted and we are not successful in obtaining adequate procedure reimbursements for additional procedures, then the demand for our products in Japan could be limited. The 18 Table of Contents process of reimbursement for new da Vinci surgical procedures in Japan is led by the surgical societies. The societies submit for reimbursement or incremental reimbursement to the MHLW for their evaluation. The decision to reimburse requires in-country clinical data and is fixed in April of even-numbered years. European Union The EU has adopted specific directives and regulations regulating the design, manufacture, clinical investigation, conformity assessment, labeling, and adverse event reporting for medical devices. Until and including May 25, 2021, medical devices were regulated by Council Directive 93/42/EEC (the “EU Medical Devices Directive” or “MDD”), which has been repealed and replaced by Regulation (EU) No 2017/745 (the “EU Medical Devices Regulation” or “MDR”). Some of our current certificates have been granted under the MDD. However, as of May 26, 2021, some of the MDR requirements apply in place of the corresponding requirements of the MDD with regard to the registration of economic operators and of devices, post-market surveillance, and vigilance. Medical Devices Directive Under the EU Medical Devices Directive, all medical devices placed on the market in the EU must meet the essential requirements laid down in Annex I to the EU Medical Devices Directive, including the requirement that a medical device must be designed and manufactured in such a way that it will not compromise the clinical condition or safety of patients or the safety and health of users and others. In addition, the device must achieve the performance intended by the manufacturer and be designed, manufactured, and packaged in a suitable manner. The European Commission has adopted various standards applicable to medical devices. These include standards governing common requirements, such as the sterilization and safety of medical electrical equipment and product standards for certain types of medical devices. There are also harmonized standards relating to design and manufacture. While not mandatory, compliance with these standards is viewed as the easiest way to satisfy the essential requirements as a practical matter, as it creates a rebuttable presumption that the device satisfies the essential requirements. Except for low-risk medical devices (Class I non-sterile, non-measuring devices), where the manufacturer can self-assess the conformity of its products with the essential requirements (except for any parts that relate to sterility or metrology), a conformity assessment procedure requires the intervention of a notified body. Notified bodies are independent organizations designated by EU member states to assess the conformity of devices before being placed on the market. A notified body would typically audit and examine a product’s technical dossiers and the manufacturer’s quality system (the notified body must presume that quality systems that implement the relevant harmonized standards, which is ISO 13485:2016 for Medical Devices Quality Management Systems, conform to these requirements). If satisfied that the relevant product conforms to the relevant essential requirements, the notified body issues a certificate of conformity, which the manufacturer uses as a basis for its own declaration of conformity. The manufacturer may then apply the European Conformity mark (“CE mark”) to the device, which allows the device to be placed on the market throughout the EU. Throughout the term of the certificate of conformity, the manufacturer will be subject to periodic surveillance audits to verify continued compliance with the applicable requirements. In particular, there will be a new audit by the notified body before it will renew the relevant certificate(s). Medical Devices Regulation On April 5, 2017, the MDR was adopted with the aim of ensuring better protection of public health and patient safety. The MDR establishes a uniform, transparent, predictable, and sustainable regulatory framework across the EU for medical devices and ensures a high level of safety and health while supporting innovation. Unlike directives, regulations are directly applicable in EU member states without the need for member states to implement into national law. This aims at increasing harmonization across the EU. The MDR became effective on May 26, 2021. In accordance with its recently extended transitional provisions, both (i) devices lawfully placed on the market pursuant to the MDD prior to May 26, 2021, and (ii) legacy devices lawfully placed on the EU market from May 26, 2021, in accordance with the MDR transitional provisions may generally continue to be made available on the market or put into service, provided that the requirements of the transitional provisions are fulfilled. However, even in this case, manufacturers must comply with a number of new or reinforced requirements set forth in the MDR, in particular the obligations described below. The MDR requires that, before placing a device on the market, other than a custom-made device, manufacturers (as well as other economic operators, such as authorized representatives and importers) must register by submitting identification information to the European database on medical devices (EUDAMED), unless they have already registered. The information to be submitted by manufacturers (and authorized representatives) also includes the name, address, and contact details of the person or persons responsible for regulatory compliance. The MDR also requires that, before placing a device on the market, other than a custom-made device, manufacturers must assign a unique identifier to the device and provide it along with other core data to the unique device identifier (“UDI”) database. These new requirements aim at ensuring better identification and 19 Table of Contents traceability of the devices. Each device – and as applicable, each package – will have a UDI composed of two parts: a device identifier (“UDI-DI”), specific to a device, and a production identifier (“UDI-PI”) to identify the unit producing the device. Manufacturers are also notably responsible for entering the necessary data on EUDAMED, which includes the UDI database, and for keeping it up to date. The obligations for registration in EUDAMED are expected to become applicable in the first fiscal quarter of 2026 (as EUDAMED is not yet fully functional). Until EUDAMED is fully functional, the corresponding provisions of the MDD continue to apply for the purpose of meeting the obligations laid down in the provisions regarding exchange of information, including, and in particular, information regarding registration of devices and economic operators. All manufacturers placing medical devices on the market in the EU must comply with the EU medical device vigilance system, which has been reinforced by the MDR. Under this system, serious incidents and Field Safety Corrective Actions (“FSCAs”) must be reported to the relevant authorities of the EU member states. These reports will have to be submitted through EUDAMED (once functional) and aim to ensure that, in addition to reporting to the relevant authorities of the EU member states, other actors, such as the economic operators in the supply chain, will also be informed. Until EUDAMED is fully functional, the corresponding provisions of the MDD continue to apply. Manufacturers are required to take FSCAs, which are defined as any corrective action for technical or medical reasons to prevent or reduce a risk of a serious incident associated with the use of a medical device that is made available on the market. A serious incident is any malfunction or deterioration in the characteristics or performance of a device on the market (e.g., inadequacy in the information supplied by the manufacturer, undesirable side-effect, etc.), which, directly or indirectly, might lead to either the death or serious deterioration of the health of a patient, user, or other persons, or to a serious public health threat. The EU has multiple laws and regulations related to composition of materials, their procurement practices, manufacturing, and disposal, such as the RoHS and WEEE Directives. These laws and regulations broadly cover requirements and risk related to health, safety, and the environment. The laws and regulations can impose restrictions on the use of certain substances (such as, in totality or by composition, percentage weight limits or parts per million limits) and have required reporting to the respective EU authorities, requirements around importations into the EU, requirements around recovery and disposal, as well as disclosure requirements. The advertising and promotion of medical devices are subject to some general principles set forth in EU legislation. According to the MDR, only devices that are CE marked may be marketed and advertised in the EU in accordance with their intended purpose. Directive 2006/114/EC concerning misleading and comparative advertising and Directive 2005/29/EC on unfair commercial practices, while not specific to the advertising of medical devices, also apply to the advertising thereof and contain general rules, for example, requiring that advertisements are evidenced, balanced, and not misleading. Specific requirements are defined at a national level. EU member states’ laws related to the advertising and promotion of medical devices, which vary between jurisdictions, may limit or restrict the advertising and promotion of products to the general public and may impose limitations on promotional activities with healthcare professionals. Many EU member states have adopted specific anti-gift statutes that further limit commercial practices for medical devices, in particular vis-à-vis healthcare professionals and organizations. Additionally, there has been a recent trend of increased regulation of payments and transfers of value provided to healthcare professionals or entities and many EU member states have adopted national “Sunshine Acts,” which impose reporting and transparency requirements (often on an annual basis), similar to the requirements in the United States, on medical device manufacturers. Certain countries also mandate implementation of commercial compliance programs. In the EU, regulatory authorities have the power to carry out announced and, if necessary, unannounced inspections of companies, as well as suppliers and/or sub-contractors and, where necessary, the facilities of professional users. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements (as applicable) could require time and resources to respond to the regulatory authorities’ observations and to implement corrective and preventive actions, as appropriate. Regulatory authorities have broad compliance and enforcement powers and, if such issues cannot be resolved to their satisfaction, can take a variety of actions, including untitled or warning letters, fines, consent decrees, injunctions, or civil or criminal penalties. The aforementioned EU rules are generally applicable in the EEA, which consists of the 27 EU Member States as well as Iceland, Liechtenstein, and Norway. Brexit and the UK Regulatory Framework Since January 1, 2021, the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (“MHRA”) has been the sovereign regulatory authority responsible for the Great Britain (i.e., England, Wales, and Scotland) medical device market. Following the end of the Brexit transitional period on January 1, 2021, new regulations require all medical devices to be registered with the MHRA before being placed on the Great Britain market. From January 1, 2022, non-UK manufacturers were required to appoint a UK Responsible Person for the purposes of registering devices placed on the Great Britain market. Under the terms of the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland, the MDR applies to medical devices placed on the Northern Ireland market in the same way as it applies to medical devices marketed in the EU. In addition, the Trade Deal between the UK and the EU generally provides for cooperation and exchange of information between the parties in the areas of product safety and 20 Table of Contents compliance, including market surveillance, enforcement activities and measures, standardization-related activities, exchanges of officials, and coordinated product recalls. As such, processes for compliance and reporting should reflect requirements from regulatory authorities. On June 26, 2022, the MHRA published its response to a 10-week consultation on the future regulation of medical devices in the UK, and the MHRA has stated that it remains its intention to implement the proposals from such consultation through secondary legislation. In addition, on November 14, 2024, the MHRA launched a new consultation on proposals to update the regulatory framework for medical devices in Great Britain, covering four topics, namely (1) a new international reliance scheme to enable swifter market access for certain devices that have already been approved in a comparable regulator country; (2) the new UK Conformity Assessed (“UKCA”) mark and, in particular, proposals to remove the requirement to place such UKCA marking on devices; (3) conformity assessment procedures for in vitro diagnostic devices; and (4) maintaining in UK law certain pieces of “assimilated” EU law, which are due to sunset in 2025. The MHRA consultation is open until January 5, 2025, and it is expected that secondary legislation implementing the proposals will be introduced later in 2025. Other countries Regulations in other countries, including the requirements for approvals, certification, or clearance and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. Certain countries, such as South Korea, Brazil, Australia, India, and Canada, have their own regulatory agencies. These countries typically require regulatory approvals and compliance with extensive safety and quality system regulations included in the MDSAP (Medical Device Single Audit Program) that we comply with every year as part of our annual audit program. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, or failure to comply with any regulation in any foreign country in which we market our products may negatively impact our ability to generate revenue and harm our business. In addition, local regulations may apply, which govern the use of our products and which could have an adverse effect on our product utilization if they are unfavorable. All such regulations are revised from time to time and, in general, are increasing in complexity and in the scope and degree of documentation and testing required. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from such documentation and testing will be acceptable to any particular regulatory agency or will continue to be acceptable over time. There are further regulations governing the importation, marketing, sale, distribution, use, and service as well as the removal and disposal of medical devices in the regions in which we operate and market our products. Failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in sanctions or fines and could prevent us from marketing our products in these regions. Data Privacy and Security Laws Numerous state, federal, and foreign laws, regulations, and standards govern the collection, use, access to, confidentiality, and security of health-related and other personal information and could apply now or in the future to our operations or the operations of our partners. In the U.S., numerous federal and state laws and regulations, including data breach notification laws, health information privacy and security laws, and consumer protection laws and regulations govern the collection, use, disclosure, and protection of health-related and other personal information. In addition, certain foreign laws govern the privacy and security of personal data, including health-related data. Privacy and security laws, regulations, and other obligations are constantly evolving, may conflict with each other to complicate compliance efforts, and can result in investigations, proceedings, or actions that lead to significant civil and/or criminal penalties and restrictions on data processing. We collect, process, share, disclose, transfer, and otherwise use data, some of which contains personal information about identifiable individuals including, but not limited to, our employees, clinical trial participants, partners, and vendors. Therefore, we are subject to U.S. (federal, state, local) and international laws and regulations, including those in the European Economic Area (“EEA”) and the United Kingdom (“UK”) regarding data privacy and security and our use of such data. We are subject to the European Union General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679 and applicable national supplementing laws (collectively, the “EU GDPR”) and to the United Kingdom General Data Protection Regulation and Data Protection Act 2018 (collectively, the “UK GDPR”) (the EU GDPR and UK GDPR together referred to as the “GDPR”). The GDPR imposes comprehensive data privacy compliance obligations in relation to our collection, processing, sharing, disclosure, transfer, and other use of data relating to an identifiable living individual or “personal data,” including a principle of accountability and the obligation to demonstrate compliance through policies, procedures, training, and audit. The EU GDPR and UK GDPR also regulate cross-border transfers of personal data out of the EEA and the UK. Recent legal developments in Europe have created complexity and uncertainty regarding such transfers, in particular in relation to transfers to the United States. 21 Table of Contents Third-Party Coverage and Payment Our customers, including physicians, hospitals, and outpatient facilities, typically bill third-party payors for the costs and fees associated with the procedures in which our products are used. In the U.S., in order to receive payment for the procedures performed using our products, our customers must report codes that describe the services or products furnished and determine the medical necessity of the service or whether the service is included in the payors’ policy. In the U.S. and most markets globally where we sell our products, payment for medical services and surgical procedures to hospitals, outpatient facilities, and surgeons (collectively “providers”) is determined by the government, commercial payors (insurers), or both. In the U.S., the CMS and its fiscal intermediaries (Medicare Administrative Contractors) and state Medicaid programs establish reimbursement policies for medical and surgical services at the state and federal level for the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Third-party payors often rely upon Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own coverage and payment policies but also have their own methods and approval processes. Commercial payors in non-capitated contracts commonly establish payment to providers based on a percentage of the Medicare payment rate. Physicians and outpatient facilities bill for medical and surgical services by reporting a combination of billing codes. Current Procedural Terminology (“CPT”) codes are created by the American Medical Association (“AMA”) with input from CMS and commercial payors to describe medical and surgical procedures. CPT codes currently exist for minimally invasive surgical procedures, which may involve the da Vinci surgical system, as well as for robotic-assisted bronchoscopy, which may involve the Ion endoluminal system. In general, the majority of payors, including Medicare, consider robotic assistance as a tool used to perform the procedure and do not pay providers more for a procedure that involves robotic assistance using the da Vinci, Ion, or any other robotic system. Because there is often no separate payment for the use of our products, the additional cost associated with the use of our products can affect the profit margin of the hospital or surgery center where the procedure is performed. If hospitals do not obtain sufficient payment from third-party payors for procedures performed with our products or if governmental and private payors’ policies do not cover surgical procedures performed using our products, hospital adoption or utilization of our products could be negatively impacted, and we may not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. Hospitals bill for inpatient services by reporting ICD-10-PCS codes. CMS is primarily responsible for overseeing changes and modifications to ICD-10-PCS codes. Medicare payments to hospitals for services provided during an inpatient stay are based on the Inpatient Prospective Payment System (“IPPS”). Under the IPPS, each patient discharge is categorized into a Medicare Severity Adjusted Diagnosis-Related Group (“MS-DRG” or “DRG”). Each DRG has an assigned payment weight based on the average resources used for Medicare patients in that DRG, taking into account the patient’s principal diagnosis, surgical procedures, age, discharge status, and additional or secondary diagnoses, among other things. The DRG is a single, bundled payment intended to cover all costs associated with the inpatient admission. The use of robotic technology does not influence the MS-DRG assignment or payment for an inpatient admission related to a surgical procedure. CMS annually updates hospital inpatient and outpatient payments based on hospitals’ charge data. Hospital inpatient and outpatient payments are also adjusted based on whether the hospital is a teaching hospital, its geographic location, and any failures to meet certain quality metrics, among other factors. Commercial payors commonly establish inpatient facility payment for providers using published Medicare DRG rates as a benchmark. In some uncommon cases, commercial payors pay for inpatient hospital admissions on a per diem basis. Commercial payment to providers varies depending on the procedure performed, geographic location, contractual allowances, and other factors. Medicare and commercial payor payments to facilities for medical and surgical services may not always fully reimburse providers for all costs associated with furnishing these procedures. If payment is insufficient for procedures involving our technology, hospitals and physicians may decide not to use our products. In countries outside of the U.S., payment for surgical services to physicians and facilities differs considerably and varies by country. In some markets, there is a single public payor who provides a global annual budget to hospitals to provide all care to the population served in a designated geographic area. In other markets, private insurance can be purchased or is provided by employers to supplement public health insurance. In some countries, patients may be permitted to pay directly for surgical services; however, such “co-pay” practices are not common (or allowed) in many countries. Further, in many global markets, access to procedures and technology is governed or heavily influenced by Health Technology Assessment (“HTA”) organizations, which conduct periodic and extensive evidence-based reviews of the clinical value and cost effectiveness of a new technology. To effectively conduct our business, we may need to seek OUS reimbursement approvals, and we do not know if these required approvals will be obtained in a timely manner or at all. In addition, in some markets, HTA organizations may publish reports with mixed conclusions about the clinical and economic value of our products to the population. Such reviews could negatively impact hospital adoption of our technology. 22 Table of Contents Healthcare Reform In the U.S., there have been, and continue to be, legislative initiatives designed to contain healthcare costs. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively, the “ACA”), was enacted. The ACA made changes that have significantly impacted healthcare providers, insurers, pharmaceutical companies, and medical device manufacturers. The ACA contained provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund health insurance coverage expansion and appropriated funding to research the comparative effectiveness of healthcare treatments and strategies. To date, this research has had a negligible effect on Medicare coverage and reimbursement decisions as well as influence on other third-party payor coverage and reimbursement policies. Since its enactment, there have been judicial, executive, and Congressional challenges to certain aspects of the ACA. On June 17, 2021, the U.S. Supreme Court dismissed the most recent judicial challenge to the ACA brought by several states without specifically ruling on the constitutionality of the ACA. Thus, the ACA remained in effect in its current form. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the ACA became law. These changes included an aggregate reduction in Medicare payments, which went into effect on April 1, 2013, and will remain in effect through 2032, unless additional Congressional action is taken, with the exception of a temporary suspension due to the COVID-19 pandemic from May 1, 2020, through March 31, 2022. Individual states in the U.S. have also become increasingly aggressive in passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints and discounts, and require marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures. In the U.S. and abroad, reimbursement is dynamic and subject to change annually by public and private payors. Congress and government agencies may also intervene and pass legislation that is intended to reduce healthcare spending, which could impact market access. Such legislative interventions can vacillate significantly based on government leadership. Other federal or state healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any regulatory or legislative developments in domestic or foreign markets that eliminate or reduce reimbursement rates for procedures performed with our products could harm our ability to sell our products or cause downward pressure on the prices of our products, either of which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of business operations. Similar reform measures may be adopted in foreign jurisdictions. For instance, on December 13, 2021, the EU Regulation No 2021/2282 on HTA, amending Directive 2011/24/EU, was adopted. While the Regulation entered into force in January 2022, it will only begin to apply from January 2025 onwards, with preparatory and implementation-related steps to take place in the interim. Once applicable, it will have a phased implementation depending on the concerned products. This Regulation intends to boost cooperation among EU member states in assessing health technologies, including certain high-risk medical devices, and provide the basis for cooperation at the EU level for joint clinical assessments in these areas. It will permit EU member states to use common HTA tools, methodologies, and procedures across the EU, working together in four main areas, including joint clinical assessment of the innovative health technologies with the highest potential impact for patients, joint scientific consultations whereby developers can seek advice from HTA authorities, identification of emerging health technologies to identify promising technologies early, and continuing voluntary cooperation in other areas. Individual EU member states will continue to be responsible for assessing non-clinical (e.g., economic, social, and ethical) aspects of health technology and making decisions on pricing and reimbursement. Human Capital Delivering on our mission depends on our ability to attract, engage, retain, and further develop top talent around the globe. We strive to enable this by making Intuitive an inclusive, diverse, and safe workplace with opportunities for our employees to grow and develop in their careers. Intuitive provides competitive compensation, benefits, and programs that encourage employee health and wellness as well as foster connections between our employees, the communities, and the customers we serve. As of December 31, 2024, we had approximately 15,638 full-time employees, with approximately 2,076 in research and development, 7,057 in manufacturing operations, 4,413 in commercial and service operations, and 2,092 in administrative activities. During 2024, the number of employees increased by approximately 1,962. Our employees are based in 29 different countries around the world. Our global workforce consists of a diverse range of highly skilled talent. During 2024, our turnover rate was approximately 8.9%. Inclusion and Diversity Intuitive’s inclusion and diversity (“I&D”) mission is to work to build an environment where every individual can belong and flourish – in our company and the communities we serve. We believe that everyone should feel included and fairly treated, and we embrace the unique qualities that make people who they are. This includes all genders and gender identities, races, ethnicities, ages, national origins, native languages, 23 Table of Contents disabilities, sexual orientations, body sizes, military backgrounds, cognitive styles, socioeconomic backgrounds, religions, and family structures. We believe in seeking the difference to propel innovation and creativity forward. We have a four-part strategy to guide our I&D efforts: ensuring an inclusive experience, where employees from all backgrounds feel welcome, supported, and valued; building a diverse workforce to fuel innovation and better mirror the customers and patients we serve; continuously investing in and enhancing the fairness of our people practices and sharing progress; and strengthening industry engagement through collaboration with our customers, the broader healthcare community, and shareholders. We aim to pursue this strategy through various initiatives, including assessing our efforts through a compliance lens; our policies prohibit unlawful discrimination against individuals on the basis of any protected characteristic. Details of our employee workforce composition, including a link to our Employer Information Report (“EEO-1”) submission to the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (“EEOC”), are available on our website. Although we reference the availability of our EEO-1 on our website in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our EEO-1 and any other materials on our website are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any of our other filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act. While matters discussed in such EEO-1 and other website materials may be significant, any significance should not be read as necessarily rising to the level of materiality used for the purposes of our compliance with the U.S. federal securities laws, even if we use the word “material” or “materiality” in such materials. From a governance perspective, maintaining a mix of backgrounds and experience in our Board composition is essential to being able to understand, represent, and reflect the needs of our diverse stakeholders. Currently, five of our 12 Board members (42%) are women, and five of our 12 board members (42%) self-identify as individuals from underrepresented communities (defined as an individual who self-identifies as Black, African American, Hispanic, Latino, Asian, Pacific Islander, Native American, Native Hawaiian, or Alaska Native, or LGBTQ+). Health, Safety, and Wellness The health, safety, and wellness of our employees is a priority in which we continue to invest and expand. We provide our employees and their families with access to a variety of innovative, flexible, and convenient health and wellness programs. Program benefits are intended to provide protection, peace of mind, and security, including workplace health and safety best practices integrated into everyday activities and programs that support employee time away from work, family care, mental health, or financial well-being. We continue to evolve our programs in an effort to respond to the interests of our changing workforce, as well as the communities in which we operate, in compliance with government regulations. Each Intuitive location manages overall safety with guidance based on regional, country, and local regulations and best practices. Compensation and Benefits We provide compensation and benefits programs to help meet the needs of our employees. In addition to base compensation, these programs, which vary by country and region, include short-term incentives in the form of annual bonuses and commissions, long-term incentives in the form of stock or cash-based awards, an Employee Stock Purchase Plan, retirement savings plans, healthcare, income protection benefits, paid time off, family leave, family care resources, and flexible work schedules, among many others. We aim to support fair and equitable pay for our employees. Our executive team and Board strongly support this effort. We regularly review pay for internal equity, including with regard to race/ethnicity and gender, and to assess the appropriateness of our compensation structure. We also engage outside counsel to assess compliance with pay equity laws. When we identify potential differences in pay, we research those differences and take actions to resolve them if we deem appropriate. In 2024, we conducted a full pay equity audit for our full-time U.S. workforce, adjusting for job role and location among other factors. Evaluating total target cash compensation, our audit found that our adjusted pay gap relative to self-identified gender was women earn 99.5% of men and our adjusted pay gap relative to U.S. self-identified race/ethnicity was employees of color earn 100.0% of white employees. We are proud to have strong pay practices and policies in place that have helped us to achieve this level of pay equity. Employees are encouraged to share any pay equity concerns with management, Human Resources, or confidentially through our reporting hotline, including anonymously. Intuitive has a non-retaliation policy for raising any workplace concerns in good faith, including around pay. Talent Development At Intuitive, we believe that all employees have the potential to grow. To support this growth, we offer a diverse range of development opportunities designed to help employees acquire and apply new technical, functional, and leadership skills. 24 Table of Contents Employee development at Intuitive commences from the first day and includes comprehensive onboarding programs that teach about our business, our culture, and the skills needed to successfully perform at Intuitive. Subsequently, employees have access to a variety of online learning courses, as well as classroom and cohort-based programs. For people leaders, we provide a 12-month, blended learning curriculum, called the Manager Acceleration Program (“MAP”). MAP is delivered globally and aims to teach our people leaders what it takes to successfully lead and manage at Intuitive. The program covers key leadership expectations as well as fundamental leadership skills. Additional virtual, instructor-led workshops provide timely classes aimed at assisting leaders with important employee processes, such as performance and compensation conversations. Furthermore, our talent development initiatives include various team effectiveness assessments and solutions tailored to meet the needs of our growing global teams. These solutions range from cross-cultural dexterity programs to assessing and leveraging individual and team strengths. We gather feedback from our teams annually through our Employee Experience survey, holding leaders accountable for taking action based on the feedback received. In 2024, Intuitive achieved a 92% employee engagement score, signaling a strong employee commitment to our mission and the work we do each day. Community Programs We believe that building connections between our employees, their families, and our communities creates a more meaningful, fulfilling, and enjoyable workplace. Through our engagement programs, our employees can pursue their interests and hobbies, connect to volunteering and giving opportunities, and enjoy unique recreational experiences with family members. The Intuitive Foundation is a nonprofit organization established in 2018 and funded by Intuitive. Since its founding, the Intuitive Foundation has been dedicated to promoting health, advancing education, and reducing human suffering. The Foundation supports outreach programs financially while we provide the volunteers and mentors from within our company. Since its inception, we have contributed $170 million to the Intuitive Foundation to fulfill its mission. We encourage you to review our 2024 Environmental, Social, and Governance (“ESG”) Report (to be made available in the “About Us — Investors” section of our website at https://isrg.intuitive.com) for more detailed information regarding our Human Capital programs and initiatives. Although we reference our ESG Report in this report, the ESG report and any other materials on our corporate website are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report or any other filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act. While matters discussed in such ESG Report and website materials may be significant, any significance should not be read as necessarily rising to the level of materiality used for the purposes of our compliance with the U.S. federal securities laws, even if we use the word “material” or “materiality” in such materials. General We make our periodic and current reports, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge on our website as soon as practicable after such material is electronically filed or furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Our website address is www.intuitive.com , and the reports are filed under “SEC Filings” on the Company — Investor Relations portion of our website. Periodically, we webcast Company announcements, product launch events, and executive presentations, which can be viewed via our Investor Relations page on our website. In addition, we provide notifications of our material news, including SEC filings, investor events, and press releases as part of our Investor Relations page on our website. The contents of our website are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or in any other report or document we file, and any references to our website are intended to be inactive textual references only. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov . The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. We operate our business as one segment, as defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Our financial results for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023, and 2022 are discussed in “