MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview Open surgery remains the predominant form of surgery and is used in almost every area of the body. However, the large incisions required for open surgery create trauma to patients, typically resulting in longer hospitalization and recovery times, increased hospitalization costs, and additional pain and suffering relative to minimally invasive surgery, where MIS is available. For over three decades, MIS has reduced trauma to patients by allowing selected surgeries to be performed through small ports rather than large incisions. MIS has been widely adopted for certain surgical procedures. Da Vinci surgical systems enable surgeons to extend the benefits of MIS to many patients who would otherwise undergo a more invasive surgery by using computational, robotic, and imaging technologies to overcome many of the limitations of traditional open surgery or conventional MIS. Surgeons using a da Vinci surgical system operate while seated comfortably at a console viewing a 3D, high-definition image of the surgical field. This immersive console connects surgeons to the surgical field and their instruments. While seated at the console, the surgeon manipulates instrument controls in a natural manner, similar to open surgical technique. Our technology is designed to provide surgeons with a range of articulation of the surgical instruments used in the surgical field analogous to the motions of a human wrist, while filtering out the tremor inherent in a surgeon’s hand. In designing our products, we focus on making our technology easy and safe to use. Our da Vinci products fall into five broad categories: da Vinci surgical systems, da Vinci instruments and accessories, da Vinci Stapling, da Vinci Energy, and da Vinci Vision, including Firefly Fluorescence imaging systems and da Vinci Endoscopes. We also provide a comprehensive suite of systems, learning, and services offerings. Digitally-enabled for nearly three decades, these three offerings aim to decrease variability by providing dependable, consistent functionality and an integrated user experience. Our systems category includes robotic platforms, software, vision, energy, and instruments and accessories. Our learning category includes educational technology, such as simulation and telepresence, as well as technical training programs and personalized peer-to-peer learning opportunities. Our services category assists and optimizes minimally invasive programs through readiness, on-demand support, consultation for minimally invasive program optimization, and hospitals customized analytics. Within our integrated ecosystem, our focus is to decrease variability in surgery by offering actionable insights, with digital solutions, to take action with the potential to improve outcomes, personalize learning, and optimize efficiency. We take a holistic approach, offering intelligent technology and systems designed to work together to make MIS intervention more available and applicable. We have commercialized the following da Vinci surgical systems: the da Vinci standard surgical system in 1999, the da Vinci S surgical system in 2006, the da Vinci Si surgical system in 2009, and the fourth generation da Vinci Xi surgical system in 2014. We extended our fourth-generation platform by adding the da Vinci X surgical system, commercialized in 2017, and the da Vinci SP surgical system, commercialized in 2018. The da Vinci SP surgical system accesses the body through a single incision, while the other da Vinci surgical systems access the body through multiple incisions. All da Vinci systems include a surgeon’s console (or consoles), imaging electronics, a patient-side cart, and computational hardware and software. We are in the early stages of launching our da Vinci SP surgical system, and we have an installed base of 177 da Vinci SP surgical systems as of December 31, 2023. We have received FDA clearance for the da Vinci SP surgical system for urologic and certain transoral procedures, and we have received regulatory clearance in South Korea, where the da Vinci SP surgical system may be used for a broad set of procedures. In September 2022, we received regulatory clearance for the da Vinci SP surgical system in Japan for the same set of procedures as can be performed on the da Vinci Xi surgical system in Japan. In January 2024, we obtained the European certification in accordance with 2017/745 EU MDR (Medical Devices Regulation) for our da Vinci SP surgical system for use in endoscopic abdominopelvic, thoracoscopic, transoral otolaryngology, transanal colorectal, and breast surgical procedures. We plan to commercialize the da Vinci SP surgical system in select major European countries throughout 2024 as part of a measured rollout strategy. We plan to seek FDA clearances for additional indications for the da Vinci SP surgical system over time. We also plan to seek clearances (including for additional indications) in other OUS markets over time. The success of the da Vinci SP surgical system is dependent on positive experiences and improved clinical outcomes for the procedures for which it has been cleared as well as securing additional clinical clearances. In addition, we have submitted regulatory filings in the U.S., Japan, and South Korea for our fifth-generation multi-port platform, da Vinci 5. If we obtain the required regulatory clearances, we plan a phased launch over several quarters after clearance, giving us time to mature our supply and manufacturing processes for the new system. We offer approximately 70 different multi-port da Vinci instruments to provide surgeons with flexibility in choosing the types of tools needed to perform a particular surgery. These multi-port instruments are generally robotically controlled and provide end effectors (tips) that are similar to those used in either open or laparoscopic surgery. We offer advanced instrumentation for the da Vinci X and da Vinci Xi platforms, including da Vinci Energy and da Vinci Stapler products, to provide surgeons with sophisticated, computer-aided tools to precisely and efficiently interact with tissue. The da Vinci X and da Vinci Xi surgical systems share the same instruments, whereas the da Vinci Si surgical system uses instruments that are not 62 Table of Contents compatible with the da Vinci X or da Vinci Xi systems. We currently offer nine core instruments on our da Vinci SP surgical system. We plan to expand the da Vinci SP instrument offering over time. Training technologies include our Intuitive Simulation products, our Intuitive Telepresence remote case observation and telementoring tools, and our dual console for use in surgeon proctoring and collaborative surgery. In 2019, the FDA cleared our Ion endoluminal system, which is a flexible, robotic-assisted, catheter-based platform that utilizes instruments and accessories for which the first cleared indication is minimally invasive biopsies in the lung. Our Ion system extends our commercial offering beyond surgery into diagnostic endoluminal procedures. The system features an ultra-thin, ultra-maneuverable catheter that can articulate 180 degrees in all directions and allows navigation far into the peripheral lung and provides the stability necessary for precision in a biopsy. Many suspicious lesions found in the lung may be small and difficult to access, which can make diagnosis challenging, and Ion helps physicians obtain tissue samples from deep within the lung, which could help enable earlier diagnosis. In March 2023, we obtained the European certification in accordance with 2017/745 EU MDR (Medical Devices Regulation) for our Ion endoluminal system and, in September 2023, we received regulatory clearance for our Ion endoluminal system in South Korea. We plan to seek additional clearances, approvals, and certifications for the Ion endoluminal system in OUS markets over time. The success of new product introductions depends on a number of factors including, but not limited to, pricing, competition, market and consumer acceptance, the effective forecasting and management of product demand, inventory levels, the management of manufacturing and supply costs, and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction. Macroeconomic Environment Uncertainty surrounding macroeconomic and geopolitical factors in the U.S. and globally characterized by the supply chain environment, inflationary pressure, higher interest rates, instability in the global financial markets, significant disruptions in the commodities’ markets as a result of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the conflict between Israel and Hamas, labor shortages, and the introduction of or changes in tariffs or trade barriers may result in a recession, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Supply chain constraints continued to show improvement as 2023 progressed, relative to 2022, based on fewer market constraints. Notably, supply of semiconductor materials rebounded, while certain residual stresses remain. Additionally, prices of such materials remain elevated due to either market demand or production-related cost inflation. With higher interest rates, access to credit may become more difficult and any insolvency of certain suppliers, including sole- and single-sourced suppliers, may have heightened continuity risks. We are actively engaged in activities to seek to mitigate the impact of any supply chain disruptions on our operations. Global shortages in important components have resulted in, and will continue to cause, inflationary cost pressure in our supply chain. To date, these supply chain challenges have not materially impacted our results of operations or ability to deliver products and services to our customers. However, supply constraints with certain materials, which may be unavoidable, could delay the timing of finished product deliveries, which could result in deferred or canceled procedures. Additionally, if inflationary pressures in component costs persist, we may not be able to quickly or easily adjust pricing, reduce costs, or implement countermeasures. Also, there is continued uncertainty surrounding the impact of any monetary policy changes taken by the U.S. Federal Reserve and other central banks to address the structural risks associated with inflation. Fluctuations in labor availability globally, including labor shortages and staff burnout and attrition, could also impact our ability to hire and retain personnel critical to our manufacturing, logistics, and commercial operations. We are also highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. The loss of critical members of our team, or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel, could significantly harm our operations, business, and ability to compete. A number of hospitals continue to experience challenges with staffing and cost pressures that could affect their ability to provide patient care; however, the staffing challenges have shown signs of improvement during the second half of 2023, relative to the first half of 2023 and to the prior year. Additionally, hospitals are facing significant financial pressure as supply chain constraints and inflation drive up operating costs, higher interest rates make access to credit more expensive, unrealized losses decrease available cash reserves, and fiscal stimulus programs enacted during the COVID-19 pandemic wind down. Hospitals may also be adversely affected by the liquidity concerns in the broader financial services industry that could result in delayed access or loss of access to uninsured deposits or loss of their ability to draw on existing credit facilities involving a troubled or failed financial institution. As a consequence of the financial pressures and decreased profitability, some hospitals have indicated that they are lowering their capital investment plans and tightening their operational budgets. We believe that these factors have contributed to a softening in our U.S. capital pipeline, and we expect that demand for capital, particularly in the U.S., will continue to be impacted while macroeconomic conditions remain challenging. In addition, as overall competition for medical technologies, including robotic-assisted devices and treatment options, progresses in various markets, we will likely experience longer selling cycles and pricing pressures. Any or all of these factors could negatively impact the number of da 63 Table of Contents Vinci procedures performed or the number of system placements and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations resulting in the failure to achieve our anticipated financial results. We maintain the majority of our cash and cash equivalents in accounts with major U.S. and multi-national financial institutions, and our deposits exceed insured limits. Market conditions could impact the viability of these institutions. To date, these market conditions and liquidity concerns have not impacted our results of operations. However, in the event of the failure of any of the financial institutions where we maintain our cash and cash equivalents, there can be no assurance that we would be able to access uninsured funds in a timely manner or at all. Any inability to access or delay in accessing these funds could adversely affect our business and financial position. COVID-19 Pandemic In 2021, resurgences of the outbreak of a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) affected da Vinci procedure volumes at various times throughout the year in most of the markets that we operate in. After each resurgence, as COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations subsided, we saw procedure volumes recover. In the U.S., the impact of high COVID-related hospitalization rates on procedure volumes was exacerbated by staffing shortages. Although hospitals were better equipped to handle COVID patients as compared to the outset of the pandemic, COVID-19 resurgences challenged hospital resources and negatively impacted da Vinci procedure volumes. In addition, delays in diagnosis and treatment of underlying conditions had a negative impact on da Vinci procedure volumes. Volumes associated with benign procedures were generally impacted to a higher degree when COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations increased, reflecting the deferability of certain elective surgeries. In early 2022, a resurgence of COVID-19 resulted in a significant increase in infections and hospitalization rates in the U.S. and certain countries in Europe, which, in turn, negatively impacted procedure volumes in January and February. As infections and hospitalizations started to decrease in February in the U.S. and Europe, we saw a recovery of procedure volumes. In March and during the second quarter of 2022, we also saw a resurgence in COVID-19 cases and increased hospitalizations and government interventions impacting parts of Asia, particularly China, which negatively impacted procedure volumes. During the third quarter of 2022, we did not experience significant disruptions from COVID-19. In the fourth quarter of 2022, we saw a resurgence in COVID-19 cases in China, which had a significant negative impact on our procedure volumes in the region. In 2023, COVID-19 resurgences in China continued to negatively impact our procedure volumes in January. However, in February and March, as infections and hospitalization started to decrease, we saw a recovery of procedure volumes. During the remainder of 2023, we did not experience significant disruptions from COVID-19. We expect the depth and extent to which COVID-19 impacts individual markets to vary based on the availability of vaccinations, personal protective equipment, intensive care units and operating rooms, and medical staff, as well as other government interventions. Additionally, COVID-19 has, and may continue to, contribute to hospital staffing shortages, which impacts hospitals’ ability to provide patient care and, in some cases, results in the deferral of elective surgeries. When COVID-19 infection rates have spiked in a particular region in the past, procedure volumes were often negatively impacted and the diagnoses of new conditions and their related treatments were sometimes deferred. While we believe that there has been a backlog of patients that remains to be treated, and that such a backlog has positively contributed to 2023 procedure volumes, it is difficult to determine if and when any remaining backlog of patients will ultimately seek diagnosis and treatment and whether they will be treated through surgery. Business Model Overview We generate revenue from the placement of da Vinci surgical systems, in sales or sales-type lease arrangements where revenue is recognized up-front or in fixed-payment or usage-based operating lease arrangements where revenue is recognized over time. We earn recurring revenue from the sales of instruments, accessories, and services, as well as revenue from operating leases. The da Vinci surgical system generally sells for between $0.7 million and $2.5 million, depending on the model, configuration, and geography, and represents a significant capital equipment investment for our customers when purchased. Our instruments and accessories have limited lives and will either expire or wear out as they are used in surgery, at which point they need to be replaced. We generally earn between $700 and $3,600 of instruments and accessories revenue per surgical procedure performed, depending on the type and complexity of the specific procedures performed and the number and type of instruments used. We typically enter into service contracts at the time systems are sold or leased at an annual fee between $80,000 and $200,000, depending on the configuration of the underlying system and the composition of the services offered under the contract. Our system sale arrangements generally include a five-year period of service, with the first year of service provided for free. These service contracts have generally been renewed at the end of the initial contractual service periods. We generate revenue from our Ion endoluminal system in a business model consistent with the da Vinci surgical system model described above. We generate revenue from the placement of Ion systems, in sales or sales-type lease arrangements where revenue is recognized up-front or in fixed-payment or usage-based operating lease arrangements where revenue is 64 Table of Contents recognized over time. We earn recurring revenue from the sales of instruments, accessories, and services, as well as revenue from operating leases. The Ion system generally sells for between $500,000 and $650,000. Our instruments and accessories have limited lives and will either expire or wear out as they are used in procedures, at which point they need to be replaced. We typically enter into service contracts at the time systems are sold or leased at an annual fee between $55,000 and $65,000. Additionally, as part of our ecosystem of products and services, we provide a portfolio of learning offerings and digital solutions. We do not currently generate material revenue from these offerings. Recurring Revenue Recurring revenue consists of instruments and accessories revenue, service revenue, and operating lease revenue. Recurring revenue increased to $5.94 billion, or 83% of total revenue in 2023, compared to $4.92 billion, or 79% of total revenue in 2022, and $4.29 billion, or 75% of total revenue in 2021. Instruments and accessories revenue has grown at a faster rate than systems revenue over time. Instruments and accessories revenue increased to $4.28 billion in 2023, compared to $3.52 billion in 2022 and $3.10 billion in 2021. The increase in instruments and accessories revenue largely reflects continued procedure adoption. Service revenue was $1.17 billion in 2023, compared to $1.02 billion in 2022 and $0.92 billion in 2021. The increase in service revenue was primarily driven by the growth of the base of installed da Vinci surgical systems producing service revenue. The installed base of da Vinci surgical systems grew 14% to approximately 8,606 as of December 31, 2023; 12% to approximately 7,544 as of December 31, 2022; and 12% to approximately 6,730 as of December 31, 2021. We use the installed base, number of placements, and utilization of systems as metrics for financial and operational decision-making and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. Management believes that the installed base, number of placements, and utilization of systems provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance, as management believes that the installed base, number of placements, and utilization of systems are an indicator of the rate of adoption of our robotic-assisted medical procedures as well as an indicator of future recurring revenue. Management believes that both it and investors benefit from referring to the installed base, number of placements, and utilization of systems in assessing our performance and when planning, forecasting, and analyzing future periods. The installed base, number of placements, and utilization of systems also facilitate management’s internal comparisons of our historical performance. We believe that the installed base, number of placements, and utilization of systems are useful to investors as metrics because (1) they allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in its financial and operational decision-making, and (2) they are used by institutional investors and the analyst community to help them analyze the performance of our business. The vast majority of installed systems are connected via the internet. System logs can also be accessed by field engineers for systems that are not connected to the internet. We utilize this information as well as other information from agreements and discussions with our customers that involve estimates and judgments, which are, by their nature, subject to substantial uncertainties and assumptions. Estimates and judgments for determining the installed base, number of placements, and utilization of systems may be impacted over time by various factors, including system internet connectivity, hospital and distributor reporting behavior, and inherent complexities in new agreements. Such estimates and judgments are also susceptible to technical errors. In addition, the relationship between the installed base, number of placements, and utilization of systems and our revenues may fluctuate from period to period, and growth in the installed base, number of placements, and utilization of systems may not correspond to an increase in revenue. The installed base, number of placements, and utilization of systems are not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, revenue or other financial information prepared and presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Intuitive System Leasing Since 2013, we have entered into sales-type and fixed-payment operating lease arrangements directly with certain qualified customers as a way to offer customers flexibility in how they acquire systems and expand their robotic-assisted programs while leveraging our balance sheet. These leases generally have commercially competitive terms as compared to other third-party entities that offer equipment leasing. We have also entered into usage-based operating lease arrangements with qualified customers that have committed da Vinci programs where we charge for the system and service as the systems are utilized. We believe that these alternative financing structures have been effective and well-received, and we are willing to expand the proportion of these structures based on customer demand. We include systems placed under fixed-payment and usage-based operating lease arrangements, as well as sales-type lease arrangements, in our system placement and installed base disclosures. We exclude operating lease-related revenue, including usage-based revenue, and Ion system revenue from our da Vinci surgical system average selling price (“ASP”) computations. 65 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our system placements under leasing arrangements for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021: Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 Da Vinci System Placements Under Leasing Arrangements Fixed-payment operating lease arrangements 304 276 333 Usage-based operating lease arrangements 355 216 184 Total da Vinci system placements under operating lease arrangements 659 492 517 % of Total da Vinci system placements 48 % 39 % 38 % Sales-type lease arrangements 45 99 151 Total da Vinci system placements under leasing arrangements 704 591 668 Ion System Placements Under Leasing Arrangements Fixed-payment operating lease arrangements 63 61 43 Usage-based operating lease arrangements 54 40 7 Total Ion system placements under operating lease arrangements 117 101 50 % of Total Ion system placements 55 % 53 % 54 % Sales-type lease arrangements 5 11 7 Total Ion system placements under leasing arrangements 122 112 57 Revenue from fixed-payment operating lease arrangements is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term, and revenue from usage-based operating lease arrangements is recognized as the systems are used. We generally set fixed-payment and usage-based operating lease arrangements’ pricing at a modest premium relative to purchased systems reflecting the time value of money and, in the case of usage-based operating lease arrangements, the risk that system utilization may fall short of anticipated levels. Variable lease revenue recognized from usage-based operating lease arrangements has been included in our operating lease metrics herein. Operating lease revenue has grown at a faster rate than overall systems revenue and was $501 million, $377 million, and $277 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively, of which $217 million, $133 million, and $78 million, respectively, was variable lease revenue related to our usage-based operating lease arrangements. As revenue for fixed-payment and usage-based operating lease arrangements is recognized over time, total systems revenue growth is reduced in a period when the number of operating lease placements increases as a proportion of total system placements. Generally, lease transactions generate similar gross margins as our sale transactions. The following table summarizes our systems installed at customers under operating leasing arrangements for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021: Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 Da Vinci System Installed Base under Operating Leasing Arrangements Fixed-payment operating lease arrangements 1,204 1,018 841 Usage-based operating lease arrangements 1,023 665 453 Total da Vinci system installed base under operating lease arrangements 2,227 1,683 1,294 Ion System Installed Base under Operating Leasing Arrangements Fixed-payment operating lease arrangements 96 72 50 Usage-based operating lease arrangements 118 60 11 Total Ion system installed base under operating lease arrangements 214 132 61 Our exposure to the credit risks relating to our lease financing arrangements may increase if our customers are adversely affected by economic pressures or uncertainty, changes in healthcare laws, coverage and reimbursement, or other customer-specific factors. As a result of these macroeconomic factors impacting our customers, we may be exposed to defaults under our lease financing arrangements. Moreover, usage-based operating lease arrangements generally contain no minimum payments; therefore, customers may exit such arrangements without paying a financial penalty to us. 66 Table of Contents For some operating lease arrangements, our customers are provided with the right to purchase the leased system at certain points during and/or at the end of the lease term. Revenue generated from customer purchases of systems under operating lease arrangements (“Lease Buyouts”) was $74 million, $72 million, and $96 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. We expect that revenue recognized from customer exercises of buyout options will fluctuate based on the timing of when, and if, customers choose to exercise their buyout options. Systems Revenue System placements are driven by procedure growth in most markets. In some markets, system placements are constrained by regulation. In geographies where da Vinci procedure adoption is in an early stage or system placements are constrained by regulation, system sales will precede procedure growth. System placements also vary due to seasonality largely aligned with hospital budgeting cycles. On an annual basis, we typically place a higher proportion of systems in the fourth quarter and a lower proportion in the first quarter as customer budgets are reset. Systems revenue is also affected by the proportion of system placements under operating lease arrangements, recurring fixed-payment and usage-based operating lease revenue, Lease Buyouts, product mix, ASPs, trade-in activities, customer mix, and specified-price trade-in rights. We generally do not provide specified-price trade-in rights or upgrade rights at the time of a system purchase. However, we expect that the number of arrangements that may contain these specified-price trade-in rights will increase when we launch our fifth-generation multi-port platform, da Vinci 5. Systems revenue remained flat at $1.68 billion in 2023. Systems revenue declined 1% to $1.68 billion in 2022. Systems revenue grew 44% to $1.69 billion in 2021. Procedure Mix / Products Our da Vinci surgical systems are generally used for soft tissue surgery for areas of the body between the pelvis and the neck, primarily in general, gynecologic, urologic, cardiothoracic, and head and neck surgeries. Within these categories, procedures range in complexity from cancer and other highly complex procedures to less complex procedures for benign conditions. Cancer and other highly complex procedures tend to be reimbursed at higher rates than less complex procedures for benign conditions. Thus, hospitals are more sensitive to the costs associated with treating less complex, benign conditions. Our strategy is to provide hospitals with attractive clinical and economical solutions across the spectrum of procedure complexity. Our fully featured da Vinci Xi surgical system with advanced instruments (including da Vinci Energy and EndoWrist and SureForm Stapler products) and our Integrated Table Motion product targets the more complex procedure segment. Our da Vinci X surgical system is targeted toward price-sensitive markets and procedures. Our da Vinci SP surgical system complements the da Vinci Xi and X surgical systems by enabling surgeons to access narrow workspaces. Procedure Seasonality More than half of the da Vinci procedures performed are for benign conditions, most notably hernia repairs, hysterectomies, and cholecystectomies. These benign procedures and other short-term elective procedures tend to be more seasonal than cancer operations and surgeries for other life-threatening conditions. Seasonality in the U.S. for procedures for benign conditions typically results in higher fourth quarter procedure volume when more patients have met annual deductibles and lower first quarter procedure volume when deductibles are reset. Seasonality outside of the U.S. varies and is more pronounced around local holidays and vacation periods, which have lower procedure volume. As a result of the factors outlined in the COVID-19 Pandemic section above, including past and potentially future recommendations of authorities to defer elective procedures, historical procedure patterns may be disrupted. Distribution Channels We provide our products through direct sales organizations in the U.S., Europe (excluding Italy, Spain, Portugal, Greece, and Eastern European countries), China (through our Intuitive-Fosun Pharma Joint Venture), Japan, South Korea, India, Taiwan, and Canada. In the remainder of our OUS markets, we provide our products through distributors. Regulatory Activities Overview Our products must meet the requirements of a large and growing body of international standards that govern the product safety, efficacy, advertising, labeling, safety reporting design, manufacture, materials content and sourcing, testing, certification, packaging, installation, use, and disposal of our products. Examples of such standards include electrical safety standards, such as those of the International Electrotechnical Commission, and composition standards, such as the Reduction of Hazardous Substances and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directives in the EU. Failure to meet these standards could limit our ability to market our products in those regions that require compliance with such standards. Our products and operations are also subject to increasingly stringent medical device, privacy, and other regulations by regional, federal, state, and local authorities. After a device is placed on the market, numerous FDA and comparable foreign regulatory requirements continue to apply. These requirements include establishment registration and device listing with the 67 Table of Contents FDA or other foreign regulatory authorities and compliance with medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA or other foreign regulatory authorities if their device caused or contributed, or may have caused or contributed, to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur. We anticipate that timelines for the introduction of new products and/or indications may be extended relative to past experience as a result of these regulations. For example, we have seen elongated regulatory approval timelines in the U.S. and Europe. Clearances, Approvals, and Certifications We have generally obtained the regulatory clearances, approvals, and certifications required to market our products associated with our da Vinci multi-port surgical systems (S, Si, Xi, and X systems) for our targeted surgical specialties within the U.S., South Korea, Japan, and the European markets in which we operate. Since 2021, we have obtained regulatory clearances, approvals, and certifications for the following products: • In January 2024, we obtained the European certification in accordance with 2017/745 EU MDR (Medical Devices Regulation) for our da Vinci SP surgical system for use in endoscopic abdominopelvic, thoracoscopic, transoral otolaryngology, transanal colorectal, and breast surgical procedures. We plan to commercialize the da Vinci SP surgical system in select major European countries throughout 2024 as part of a measured rollout strategy. In September 2022, we obtained regulatory clearance for our da Vinci SP surgical system in Japan for use in general surgeries, thoracic surgeries (excluding cardiac procedures and intercostal approaches), urologic surgeries, gynecologic surgeries, and transoral head and neck surgeries. • In September 2023, we received regulatory clearance in South Korea for our Ion endoluminal system. We expect the introduction of the Ion system in South Korea to follow the refinement of our training pathways in the region and the gathering of local clinical and economic data. In March 2023, we obtained the European certification in accordance with 2017/745 EU MDR (Medical Devices Regulation) for our Ion endoluminal system. In Europe, we plan to initially focus on the United Kingdom (“UK”) market and on the collection of clinical data in support of our European reimbursement strategy. Our Ion system previously received FDA clearance in the U.S. in 2019. • Following approval in June 2023 by China’s National Medical Products Administration (“NMPA”) for a local version of our da Vinci Xi surgical system, in August 2023, our Intuitive-Fosun Pharma Joint Venture received a manufacturing license that permits the Joint Venture to manufacture our da Vinci Xi surgical system for sale to customers in China. • In July 2023, we received regulatory clearance for our E-200 generator in Japan and South Korea. In November 2022, we obtained FDA clearance for our E-200 generator. The E-200 generator can be used in da Vinci robotic procedures, as well as non-robotic open and laparoscopic procedures, to deliver high-frequency energy for cutting, coagulation, and vessel sealing of tissues. The E-200 generator includes the same advanced energy capability as the E-100 generator and supports the same vessel sealing instruments. • In April 2023, we obtained FDA clearance for the use of our da Vinci SP surgical system in simple prostatectomy procedures. We also obtained FDA clearance for the use of our da Vinci SP surgical system in transvesical approaches to simple and radical prostatectomy. • In October 2022, we received regulatory clearance in Japan to market our 8 mm SureForm 30 Curved-Tip and Straight-Tip Stapler instruments and reloads for use in general, thoracic (except for cardiac), gynecologic, and urologic surgery. In December 2021, we obtained FDA clearance for our 8 mm SureForm 30 Curved-Tip Stapler and reloads for use in general, thoracic, gynecologic, urologic, and pediatric surgery. We completed initial evaluations of the 8 mm SureForm 30 stapler with certain customers in the U.S. in 2022. After the initial feedback, we are completing design changes and are targeting another submission in 2024. • In March 2022, we received regulatory clearance in China to market our da Vinci Endoscope Plus. We have also received regulatory clearances in South Korea and Japan to market our da Vinci Endoscope Plus in December 2019 and May 2020, respectively. In June 2019, we obtained European certification for our da Vinci Endoscope Plus for the da Vinci Xi and da Vinci X surgical systems. Following the European certification, in July 2019, we obtained FDA clearance for our da Vinci Endoscope Plus. • In February 2022, we received regulatory clearance in China to market both our 12 mm SureForm 45 Stapler and SureForm 60 Stapler and corresponding reloads. • In January 2022, we received regulatory clearance in China to market our da Vinci Vessel Sealer Extend with up to 7 mm vascular indications. 68 Table of Contents • In June 2021 and July 2021, we received regulatory clearance in South Korea to market our SureForm 45 Curved-Tip Stapler and SureForm 45 Gray reload, respectively. In September 2019, we received regulatory clearance in Japan to market both our SureForm 45 Curved-Tip Stapler and SureForm 45 Gray reload. In February 2019, we obtained European certification for our SureForm 45 Curved-Tip Stapler and SureForm 45 Gray reload and, in July 2019, we obtained FDA clearance for our SureForm 45 Curved-Tip Stapler and SureForm 45 Gray reload, which round out our SureForm 45 portfolio. • In late 2020 and early 2021, we obtained FDA clearance, European certification, and other regulatory clearances in most of our significant markets to market our Extended Use Instruments. Refer to the descriptions of our new products that received regulatory clearances, approvals, or certifications in 2023, 2022, and 2021 in the Recent Product Introductions section below. In June 2023, the China National Health Commission published the 14th five-year plan quota for major medical equipment to be sold in China on its official website. Under the 2023 Quota, the government will allow for the sale of 559 new surgical robots into China, which could include da Vinci surgical systems as well as surgical systems introduced by others. As of December 31, 2023, including systems that were sold in prior quarters, we have placed 76 da Vinci surgical systems under the 2023 Quota. Future sales of da Vinci surgical systems under this and any previously published open quotas are uncertain, as they are open to other medical device companies that have introduced robotic-assisted surgical systems and are dependent on hospitals completing a tender process and receiving associated approvals. Also, our ability to track the number of systems that could be sold under these quotas in the future will be limited by provincial and national agencies making such information publicly available. Since 2022, several provinces, including the Hunan Provincial Healthcare Security Administration, have implemented significant limits on what hospitals can charge patients for surgeries using robotic surgical technology, including soft tissue surgery and orthopedics. These limits have significantly impacted the number of procedures performed and have impacted our instruments and accessories revenue in those provinces. As of the date of this report, these limits have not had a material impact on our business, financial condition, or results of operations, as only a small portion of our installed base in China is currently located in the impacted provinces. Companies providing robotic surgical technology, including our Joint Venture in China, have been meeting with Chinese government healthcare agencies to discuss these developments and to provide feedback. We cannot assure you that additional provincial or national healthcare agencies and administrations will not impose similar limits, and we expect to continue to face increased pricing pressure, both of which could further impact the number of procedures performed and our instruments and accessories revenue in China. The Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor, and Welfare considers reimbursement for procedures in April of even-numbered years. The process for obtaining reimbursement requires Japanese university hospitals and surgical societies, with our support, to seek reimbursement. There are multiple pathways to obtain reimbursement for procedures, including those that require in-country clinical and economic data. In April 2012 and April 2016, the MHLW granted reimbursement status for prostatectomy and partial nephrectomy, respectively. Most prostatectomies and partial nephrectomies were open procedures prior to da Vinci reimbursement. Da Vinci procedure reimbursement for prostatectomy and partial nephrectomy procedures are higher than open and conventional laparoscopic procedure reimbursements. An additional 12 da Vinci procedures were granted reimbursement in April, 2018, including gastrectomy, low anterior resection, lobectomy, and hysterectomy, for both malignant and benign conditions, and an additional seven da Vinci procedures were granted reimbursement in April, 2020. An additional eight da Vinci procedures were granted reimbursement in April, 2022, including colon resection. In addition, we received higher reimbursement for da Vinci gastrectomy procedures, as compared to open and conventional laparoscopic procedure reimbursements. The additional reimbursed procedures have varying levels of conventional laparoscopic penetration and will generally be reimbursed at rates equal to the conventional laparoscopic procedures. Given the reimbursement level and laparoscopic penetration for these additional procedures, there can be no assurance that the adoption pace for these procedures will be similar to prostatectomy or partial nephrectomy, given their higher reimbursement, or any other da Vinci procedure. Recalls and Corrections Medical device companies have regulatory obligations to correct or remove medical devices in the field that could pose a risk to health. The definition of “recalls and corrections” is expansive and includes repair, replacement, inspections, relabeling, and issuance of new or additional instructions for use or reinforcement of existing instructions for use and training when such actions are taken for specific reasons of safety or compliance. These field actions require stringent documentation, reporting, and monitoring worldwide. There are other actions that a medical device manufacturer may take in the field without reporting including, but not limited to, routine servicing and stock rotations. As we determine whether a field action is reportable in any regulatory jurisdiction, we prepare and submit notifications to the appropriate regulatory agency for the particular jurisdiction. Regulators can require the expansion, reclassification, or change in scope and language of the field action. In general, upon submitting required notifications to regulators regarding a field action that is a recall or correction, we will notify customers regarding the field action, provide any additional 69 Table of Contents documentation required in their national language, and arrange, as required, the return or replacement of the affected product or a field service visit to perform the correction. Field actions, as well as certain outcomes from regulatory activities, can result in adverse effects on our business, including damage to our reputation, delays by customers of purchase decisions, reduction or stoppage of the use of installed systems, and reduced revenue as well as increased expenses. Procedures We model patient value as equal to procedure efficacy / invasiveness . In this equation, procedure efficacy is defined as a measure of the success of the procedure in resolving the underlying disease, and invasiveness is defined as a measure of patient pain and disruption of regular activities. When the patient value of a robotic-assisted procedure is greater than that of alternative treatment options, patients may benefit from seeking out surgeons or physicians and hospitals that offer robotic-assisted medical procedures, which could potentially result in a local market share shift. Adoption of robotic-assisted procedures occurs by procedure and by market and is driven by the relative patient value and total treatment costs of robotic-assisted procedures as compared to alternative treatment options for the same disease state or condition. We use the number and type of procedures as metrics for financial and operational decision-making and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. Management believes that the number and type of procedures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance, as management believes procedure volume is an indicator of the rate of adoption of our robotic-assisted medical procedures as well as an indicator of future revenue (including revenue from usage-based operating lease arrangements). Management believes that both it and investors benefit from referring to the number and type of procedures in assessing our performance and when planning, forecasting, and analyzing future periods. The number and type of procedures also facilitate management’s internal comparisons of our historical performance. We believe that the number and type of procedures are useful to investors as metrics, because (1) they allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in its financial and operational decision-making, and (2) they are used by institutional investors and the analyst community to help them analyze the performance of our business. The vast majority of our installed systems are connected via the internet. System logs can also be accessed by field engineers for systems that are not connected to the internet. We utilize certain methods that rely on information collected from the installed systems for determining the number and type of procedures performed that involve estimates and judgments, which are, by their nature, subject to substantial uncertainties and assumptions. Estimates and judgments for determining the number and type of procedures may be impacted over time by various factors, including changes in treatment modalities, hospital and distributor reporting behavior, and system internet connectivity. Such estimates and judgments are also susceptible to algorithmic or other technical errors. In addition, the relationship between the number and type of procedures and our revenues may fluctuate from period to period, and procedure volume growth may not correspond to an increase in revenue. The number and type of procedures are not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, revenue or other financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. Our systems and instruments are regulated independently in various countries and regions of the world. The discussion of indications for use and representative or target procedures is intended solely to provide an understanding of the market for our products and is not intended to promote for sale or use any Intuitive product outside of its licensed or cleared labeling and indications for use. Da Vinci Procedures The adoption of robotic-assisted surgery using the da Vinci surgical system has the potential to grow for those procedures that offer greater patient value than to non-da Vinci alternatives and competitive total economics for healthcare providers. Our da Vinci surgical systems are used primarily in general, urologic, gynecologic, cardiothoracic, and head and neck surgeries. We focus our organization and investments on developing, marketing, and training products and services for procedures in which da Vinci can bring patient value relative to alternative treatment options and/or economic benefit to healthcare providers. Target procedures in general surgery include hernia repair (both ventral and inguinal), colorectal, cholecystectomy, and bariatric procedures. Target procedures in urology include prostatectomy and partial nephrectomy. Target procedures in gynecology include hysterectomy for both cancer and benign conditions and sacrocolpopexy. In cardiothoracic surgery, target procedures include lung resection. In head and neck surgery, target procedures include transoral surgery. Not all indications, procedures, or products described may be available in a given country or region or on all generations of da Vinci surgical systems. Surgeons and their patients need to consult the product labeling in their specific country and for each product in order to determine the cleared uses, as well as important limitations, restrictions, or contraindications. In 2023, approximately 2,286,000 surgical procedures were performed with da Vinci surgical systems, compared to approximately 1,875,000 and 1,594,000 surgical procedures performed with da Vinci surgical systems in 2022 and 2021, respectively. The increase in our overall procedure volume in 2023 was largely attributable to growth in U.S. general surgery, OUS urologic surgery, OUS general surgery (particularly cancer), and U.S. gynecologic surgery procedures. The overall 70 Table of Contents procedure volumes in the comparative 2022 and 2021 years reflect the disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, as noted in the COVID-19 Pandemic section above. U.S. da Vinci Procedures Overall U.S. procedure volume with da Vinci surgical systems grew to approximately 1,532,000 in 2023, compared to approximately 1,282,000 in 2022 and approximately 1,109,000 in 2021. General surgery was our largest and fastest growing U.S. specialty in 2023 with procedure volume that grew to approximately 896,000 in 2023, compared to approximately 720,000 in 2022 and approximately 588,000 in 2021. Gynecology was our second largest U.S. surgical specialty in 2023 with procedure volume that grew to approximately 390,000 in 2023, compared to approximately 341,000 in 2022 and approximately 316,000 in 2021. Urology was our third largest U.S. surgical specialty in 2023 with procedure volume that grew to approximately 173,000 in 2023, compared to approximately 162,000 in 2022 and approximately 153,000 in 2021. OUS da Vinci Procedures Overall OUS procedure volume with da Vinci surgical systems grew to approximately 754,000 in 2023, compared to approximately 593,000 in 2022 and approximately 485,000 in 2021. Urology was our largest OUS specialty in 2023 with procedure volume that grew to approximately 381,000 in 2023, compared to approximately 316,000 in 2022 and approximately 264,000 in 2021. General surgery was our second largest and fastest growing OUS specialty in 2023 with procedure volume that grew to approximately 188,000 in 2023, compared to approximately 133,000 in 2022 and approximately 101,000 in 2021. Gynecology was our third largest OUS specialty in 2023 with procedure volume that grew to approximately 110,000 in 2023, compared to approximately 86,000 in 2022 and approximately 70,000 in 2021. Ion Procedures The adoption of robotic-assisted bronchoscopy using the Ion endoluminal system has the potential to grow if it can offer greater patient value than non-Ion alternatives and competitive total economics for healthcare providers. In 2023, approximately 54,000 biopsy procedures were performed with Ion systems, compared to approximately 23,500 in 2022 and approximately 7,400 in 2021. The increase in our overall procedure volume in 2023 reflects a larger installed base of approximately 534 systems, an increase of 66% compared to the installed base of approximately 321 systems as of 2022. Currently, the vast majority of Ion biopsy procedures are performed in the U.S. Recent Business Events and Trends Procedures Overall. Total da Vinci procedures performed by our customers grew approximately 22% for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to approximately 18% for the year ended December 31, 2022. The growth in the comparative 2022 procedure results partially reflected disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic in both the 2022 and comparative 2021 procedure results, as noted in the COVID-19 Pandemic section above. The 2023 procedure growth was largely attributable to growth in U.S. general surgery, OUS urologic surgery, OUS general surgery (particularly cancer), and U.S. gynecologic surgery procedures. Delays in both the diagnosis and treatments of diseases reflecting disruptions caused by COVID-19 have previously, and may continue to, adversely impact procedure volumes in periods with disruption. Such delays may also create treatment backlogs that could have a beneficial impact on future period procedure volumes. U.S. Procedures. U.S. da Vinci procedures grew approximately 19% for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to approximately 16% for the year ended December 31, 2022. The 2022 procedure results (and comparative 2021 procedures results) reflected disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, as noted in the COVID-19 Pandemic section above. The 2023 U.S. procedure growth was largely attributable to growth in general surgery procedures, most notably cholecystectomy, hernia repair, and colorectal procedures. Growth in bariatric procedures decelerated in 2023. Growth in the more mature gynecologic procedure category accelerated in 2023, while growth in the more mature urologic procedure category was more moderate. U.S. General Surgery. General surgery procedures in the U.S. grew to approximately 896,000 in 2023, compared to approximately 720,000 in 2022 and approximately 588,000 in 2021. Cholecystectomy, inguinal and ventral hernia repair, and colorectal procedures contributed the most incremental procedures in 2023, while inguinal and ventral hernia repair, cholecystectomy, and bariatric procedures contributed the most incremental procedures in 2022 and 2021. Given the already very high level of laparoscopic techniques used in cholecystectomy, it is unclear to what extent robotic-assisted surgery using da Vinci may continue to be adopted. We believe that growth in hernia repair using da Vinci reflects improved clinical outcomes within certain patient populations, as well as potential cost benefits relative to certain alternative treatments. We believe that hernia repair procedures represent a significant opportunity with the potential to drive growth in future periods. However, given the differences in surgical complexity associated with the treatment of various hernia patient populations and varying surgeon opinions regarding 71 Table of Contents optimal surgical technique, it is difficult to estimate the timing of and to what extent hernia repair procedure volume will grow in the future. We expect a large portion of hernia repairs will continue to be performed via different modalities of surgery. The adoption of da Vinci for colorectal procedures, which includes several underlying procedures, such as low anterior resections for rectal cancers and certain colon procedures for benign and cancerous conditions, has been ongoing for several years and is supported by certain technologies, such as the EndoWrist and SureForm Staplers, energy devices, and Integrated Table Motion. Bariatric procedures have been an increased area of focus and may have benefited from certain patients prioritizing weight loss, as obesity is a significant COVID-19 risk factor. In addition, our SureForm 60mm Stapler provides surgeons with a more optimized robotic tool set for bariatric procedures using da Vinci. While bariatric procedures have grown significantly over the last three years, the pace of this growth has slowed during 2023. It is unclear whether the slowing growth is a temporary pause as patients evaluate new drug therapies or if growth in U.S. bariatric procedures will continue to slow in future periods. The diagnosis and treatment pathways for bariatric patients are long, and we cannot provide any assurance that we will continue to see significant growth in bariatric procedures in future periods. U.S. Gynecology .  Gynecology procedures in the U.S. grew to approximately 390,000 in 2023, compared to approximately 341,000 in 2022 and approximately 316,000 in 2021. Benign hysterectomy procedures contributed the most incremental procedures in 2023, 2022, and 2021. The growth in benign hysterectomy procedures has been driven largely by new surgeon training. OUS Procedures. OUS da Vinci procedures grew approximately 27% for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to approximately 22% for the year ended December 31, 2022. The 2022 procedure results (and comparative 2021 procedures results) reflected disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, as noted in the COVID-19 Pandemic section above. The 2023 OUS procedure growth was driven by continued growth in urologic procedures, including prostatectomies and partial nephrectomies, and earlier stage growth in general surgery (particularly colorectal) and gynecologic procedures. The 2023 OUS procedure growth rate reflects continued da Vinci adoption in European and Asian markets. We saw strong procedure growth in China, Japan, Germany, and the UK during 2023. In China, the strong procedure growth rate was partially attributable to the disruption caused by COVID-19 in the comparative 2022 procedure results. We believe that growth in these global markets is being driven by increased acceptance among surgeons and health systems, supported by expanded global evidence validating the clinical and economic value of da Vinci procedures as well as increased surgeon training. OUS Urology. OUS urology procedures have been a strong contributor to our overall procedure growth. OUS urology procedures grew to approximately 381,000 in 2023, compared to approximately 316,000 in 2022 and approximately 264,000 in 2021. In the U.S., da Vinci is the standard of care for the surgical treatment of prostate cancer, and we believe that the growth is largely aligned with surgical volumes of prostate cancer. Outside of the U.S., prostatectomy is at varying states of adoption in different areas of the world but is the largest overall da Vinci procedure. In 2023, we saw more moderate growth in OUS prostatectomy procedures compared to higher growth in 2022, as we are further up the adoption curve. Kidney cancer procedures have also been a strong contributor to our recent global urology procedure growth. Clinical publications have demonstrated that the use of a da Vinci system increases the likelihood that a patient will receive nephron sparing surgery through a partial nephrectomy, which is typically the surgical society guideline recommended therapy. OUS General Surgery. OUS general surgery procedures grew to approximately 188,000 in 2023, compared to approximately 133,000 in 2022 and approximately 101,000 in 2021. Colorectal procedures contributed the most incremental procedures in 2023, 2022, and 2021, aided by improved clinical outcomes relative to open and laparoscopic techniques within certain patient populations, along with enabling technologies, such as EndoWrist and SureForm staplers, energy devices, and Integrated Table Motion. System Demand We placed 1,370 da Vinci surgical systems in 2023, compared to 1,264 systems in 2022. The increase in system placements reflects an increase in demand for additional capacity by our customers as a result of procedure growth. This increase was partially offset by the impacts of a smaller number of third generation da Vinci systems available for trade-in and the macroeconomic challenges impacting our customers. We continue to see our customers challenged by staffing shortages, inflation, debt servicing costs, and other financial pressures, particularly in the U.S. As a result, we expect our customers to continue to be cautious in their overall capital spending. In addition, in July 2023, the Chinese government launched a one-year anti-corruption campaign targeting the healthcare sector. As a result of this anti-corruption campaign, the medical institutions have heightened their scrutiny with respect to initiating tenders. Therefore, some tenders were cancelled or delayed without a timeline. In 2023, the effect of this anti-corruption campaign contributed to fewer systems being placed in China. Currently, the extent of the impact of this anti-corruption campaign on our business remains uncertain. 72 Table of Contents We expect that future placements of da Vinci surgical systems will be impacted by a number of factors: supply chain risks; economic and geopolitical factors; inflationary pressures; high interest rates; hospital staffing shortages; procedure growth rates; evolving system utilization and point-of-care dynamics; capital replacement trends, including a declining number of older generation systems available for trade-in transactions; additional reimbursements in various global markets, such as in Japan; the timing around governmental tenders and authorizations, as well as governmental actions impacting the tender process, such as the anti-corruption campaign in China; the impact of COVID-19, as noted in the COVID-19 Pandemic section above; the hospital response to the evolving healthcare environment; the timing of when we receive regulatory clearance in our other OUS markets for our da Vinci Xi, X, and SP surgical systems and related instruments; and the market response. Market acceptance of our da Vinci SP surgical system and the nature and timing of additional da Vinci SP regulatory indications may also impact future system placements. Demand may also be impacted by competition, including from companies that have introduced products in the field of robotic-assisted medical procedures or have made explicit statements about their efforts to enter the field including, but not limited to, the following companies: Asensus Surgical, Inc.; Beijing Surgerii Robotics Company Limited; CMR Surgical Ltd.; Johnson & Johnson; Medicaroid Corporation; Medtronic plc; meerecompany Inc.; Noah Medical; Shandong Weigao Group Medical Polymer Company Ltd.; Shanghai Microport Medbot (Group) Co., Ltd.; and Shenzhen Edge Medical Co., Ltd. Many of the above factors will also impact future demand for our Ion endoluminal system, as we extend our commercial offering into diagnostics, along with additional factors associated with a new product introduction, including, but not limited to, our ability to optimize manufacturing and our supply chain, competition, clinical data to demonstrate value, and market acceptance. Recent Product Introductions E-200 Generator. In November 2022, we obtained FDA clearance for the E-200 generator. In July 2023, we received regulatory clearance for our E-200 generator in Japan and South Korea. The E-200 generator is an advanced electrosurgical generator designed to provide high-frequency energy for cutting, coagulation, and vessel sealing of tissues. The E-200 generator is compatible with the da Vinci Xi and X surgical systems and can also function as a standalone electrosurgical generator. When connected to a da Vinci system, the E-200 delivers high-frequency energy to da Vinci instruments, with control and status messages communicated through an Ethernet cable. The E-200 generator is also compatible with third-party handheld monopolar and bipolar instruments, as well as fingerswitch-equipped instruments and Intuitive-provided auxiliary footswitches. The E-200 generator includes the same advanced energy capability as the E-100 generator and supports the same vessel sealing instruments. SureForm 30 Curved-Tip Stapler and Reloads. In December 2021, we obtained initial FDA clearance for our 8 mm SureForm 30 Curved-Tip Stapler and reloads (gray, white, and blue) for use in general, thoracic, gynecologic, urologic, and pediatric surgery. We designed this instrument to help surgeons better visualize and reach anatomy through a combination of the 8 mm diameter instrument shaft and jaws, 120-degree cone of wristed articulation, and the curved tip. As it fits through the 8 mm da Vinci surgical system instrument cannula, the stapler allows different angles for surgeons to approach patient anatomy. Consistent with our other SureForm staplers, the 8 mm SureForm 30 Curved-Tip Stapler integrates SmartFire technology, which makes automatic adjustments to the firing process as staples are formed and the transection is made. The technology makes more than 1,000 measurements per second, helping achieve a consistent staple line. We completed initial evaluations of the 8 mm SureForm 30 stapler with certain customers in the U.S. in 2022. After the initial feedback, we are completing design changes and are targeting another submission in 2024. In October 2022, we received regulatory clearance in Japan to market our 8 mm SureForm 30 Curved-Tip and Straight-Tip Stapler instruments and reloads for use in general, thoracic (except for cardiac), gynecologic, and urologic surgery. Intuitive Ventures In 2020, we launched Intuitive Ventures Fund I, an inaugural $100 million fund focused on investment opportunities in companies that share Intuitive’s commitment to advancing positive outcomes in healthcare. As of December 31, 2023, we have invested $50 million of the $100 million. In late 2023, we launched Intuitive Ventures Fund II, a $150 million fund focused on investment opportunities in companies reimagining the future of minimally invasive care. 73 Table of Contents 2023 Operational and Financial Highlights • Total revenue increased by 14% to $7.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $6.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022. • Approximately 2,286,000 da Vinci procedures were performed during the year ended December 31, 2023, an increase of 22% compared to approximately 1,875,000 da Vinci procedures for the year ended December 31, 2022. • Approximately 54,000 Ion procedures were performed during the year ended December 31, 2023, an increase of 129% compared to approximately 23,500 Ion procedures for the year ended December 31, 2022. • Instruments and accessories revenue increased by 22% to $4.28 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $3.52 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022. • Systems revenue remained flat at $1.68 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $1.68 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022. • 1,370 da Vinci surgical systems were placed during the year ended December 31, 2023, an increase of 8% compared to 1,264 systems during the year ended December 31, 2022. • As of December 31, 2023, we had a da Vinci surgical system installed base of approximately 8,606 systems, an increase of 14% compared to the installed base of approximately 7,544 systems as of December 31, 2022. • Utilization of da Vinci surgical systems, measured in terms of procedures per system per year, increased 9% relative to 2022. • 213 Ion systems were placed during the year ended December 31, 2023, an increase of 11% compared to 192 systems during the year ended December 31, 2022. • As of December 31, 2023, we had an Ion system installed base of approximately 534 systems, an increase of 66% compared to the installed base of approximately 321 systems as of December 31, 2022. • Gross profit as a percentage of revenue was 66.4% for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to 67.4% for the year ended December 31, 2022. • Operating income increased by 12% to $1.77 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $1.58 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022. Operating income included $598 million and $517 million of share-based compensation expense related to employee stock plans and $31.2 million and $45.4 million of intangible asset-related charges for the years ended December 31, 2023, and 2022, respectively. • As of December 31, 2023, we had $7.34 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and investments. Cash, cash equivalents, and investments increased by $0.60 billion, compared to $6.74 billion as of December 31, 2022, primarily as a result of cash provided by operating activities, proceeds from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases, and unrealized gains on interest-bearing debt securities classified as available for sale, partially offset by cash used for capital expenditures and share repurchases. 74 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. This section of the Annual Report on Form 10-K generally discusses 2023 and 2022 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2023 and 2022. Discussions of 2021 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2022 and 2021 that are not included in this report on Form 10-K can be found in “