MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview Open surgery remains the predominant form of surgery and is used in almost every area of the body.  However, the large incisions required for open surgery create trauma to patients, typically resulting in longer hospitalization and recovery times, increased hospitalization costs, and additional pain and suffering relative to minimally invasive surgery (“MIS”), where MIS is available. For over two and a half decades, MIS has reduced trauma to patients by allowing selected surgeries to be performed through small ports rather than large incisions. MIS has been widely adopted for certain surgical procedures, but has not yet been widely adopted for reconstructive surgeries. da Vinci Surgical Systems enable surgeons to extend the benefits of MIS to many patients who would otherwise undergo a more invasive surgery by using computational, robotic and imaging technologies to overcome many of the limitations of conventional MIS.  Surgeons using a da Vinci Surgical System operate while seated comfortably at a console viewing a Three Dimensional (“3-D”) representation of a High Definition (“HD”) image of the surgical field.  This immersive visualization connects surgeons to the surgical field and their instruments. While seated at the console, the surgeon manipulates instrument controls in a natural manner, similar to the open surgery technique. Our technology is designed to provide surgeons with a range of motion of MIS instruments in the surgical field analogous to the motions of a human wrist, while filtering out the tremor inherent in a surgeon’s hand.  In designing our products, we focus on making our technology easy and safe to use. Our products fall into four broad categories - the da Vinci Surgical Systems, InSite and Firefly Fluorescence imaging systems (“ Firefly ”), instruments and accessories (e.g., EndoWrist, EndoWrist One Vessel Sealer, da Vinci Single-Site and EndoWrist Stapler), and training technologies. We have commercialized four generations of da Vinci Surgical Systems: the first is our da Vinci standard Surgical System, commercialized in 1999, the second is our da Vinci S Surgical System, commercialized in 2006, the third is our da Vinci Si Surgical System, commercialized in 2009, and the fourth is our da Vinci Xi Surgical System, commercialized in the second quarter of 2014. Systems include a surgeon’s console (or consoles), imaging electronics, a patient-side cart, and computational hardware and software. We offer over 65 different multiport da Vinci instruments enabling surgeons’ flexibility in choosing the types of tools needed in a particular surgery.  These multiport instruments are generally robotically controlled versions of surgical tools that surgeons would use in either open or laparoscopic surgery. We offer Single-Site instruments for use with the da Vinci Si Surgical System in cholecystectomy, benign hysterectomy, and salpingo-oophorectomy procedures. Single-Site instruments enable surgeons to also perform surgery through a single port via the patient’s belly button, resulting in the potential for virtually scarless results. For the da Vinci Si and da Vinci Xi platforms, we offer advanced energy instrumentation, including the EndoWrist One Vessel Sealer, and EndoWrist Stapler 45, to provide surgeons with sophisticated, computer-aided tools to precisely and efficiently interact with tissue. Training technologies include our da Vinci Skills Simulator, da Vinci Connect remote case observation and mentoring tool, and our dual console for use in surgeon proctoring and collaborative surgery. Procedures We model patient value as equal to procedure efficacy / invasiveness . In this equation procedure efficacy is defined as a measure of the success of the surgery in resolving the underlying disease and invasiveness is defined as a measure of patient pain and disruption of regular activities. When the patient value of a da Vinci procedure is greater than that of alternative treatment options, patients may benefit from seeking out surgeons and hospitals that offer da Vinci Surgery, which could potentially result in a local market share shift. da Vinci procedure adoption occurs procedure by procedure, market by market, and is driven by the relative patient value and total treatment costs of da Vinci procedures as compared to alternative treatment options for the same disease state or condition. Worldwide Procedures da Vinci systems and instruments are regulated independently in various countries and regions of the world. The discussion of indications for use and representative or target procedures is intended solely to provide an understanding of the market for da Vinci products but is not intended to promote for sale or use any Intuitive Surgical product outside of its licensed or cleared labeling and indications for use. The adoption of da Vinci Surgery has the potential to grow for those procedures that offer greater patient value than non- da Vinci alternatives, within the prevailing economics of healthcare providers. da Vinci Surgical Systems are used primarily in gynecologic surgery, general surgery, urologic surgery, cardiothoracic surgery, and head and neck surgery. We focus our organization and investments on developing, marketing, and training for those products and procedures where da Vinci can bring greater patient value relative to alternative treatment options and/or economic benefit to health care providers. Target procedures in gynecology include da Vinci Hysterectomy (“dVH”), for both cancer and benign procedures, and sacrocolpopexy. Target procedures in general surgery include hernia repair (both ventral and inguinal), colorectal procedures, and cholecystectomy. Target procedures in urology 37 Table of Contents include da Vinci Prostatectomy (“dVP”) and partial nephrectomy. In cardiothoracic surgery, target procedures include da Vinci Lobectomy and da Vinci Mitral Valve Repair. In head and neck surgery, target procedures include certain procedures resecting benign and malignant tumors classified as T1 and T2. Not all the indications, procedures, or products described may be available in a given country or region or on all generations of da Vinci Surgical Systems. Patients need to consult the product labeling in a specific country and for each product in order to determine the actual authorized uses, as well as important limitations, restrictions, or contraindications. In 2015 , approximately 652,000 surgical procedures were performed with the da Vinci Surgical System, compared with approximately 570,000 and 523,000 procedures performed in 2014 and 2013 , respectively. The growth in our overall procedure volume in 2015 was driven by growth in U.S. general surgery procedures and worldwide urologic procedures. U.S. Procedures Overall U.S. procedure volume grew to approximately 499,000 in 2015 , compared with approximately 449,000 in 2014 , and approximately 422,000 in 2013 . Gynecology is our largest U.S. surgical specialty and the procedure volume was approximately 238,000 in 2015 , compared with 235,000 in 2014 and 240,000 in 2013 . General surgery is our second largest and fastest growing specialty in the U.S. with procedure volume that grew to approximately 140,000 in 2015 , compared with approximately 107,000 in 2014 and 81,000 in 2013 . U.S. urology procedure volume was approximately 102,000 in 2015 , compared with approximately 91,000 in 2014 , and 85,000 in 2013 . Procedures Outside of the U.S. Overall procedures outside of the U.S. (“OUS”) grew to approximately 153,000 in 2015 , compared with approximately 121,000 in 2014 and approximately 101,000 in 2013 . OUS procedure growth accelerated in 2015, reflecting higher Asian procedure volumes, most notably in China, Japan, and South Korea. Procedure volume grew at a similar rate in 2015 as compared with 2014. Procedure growth in most OUS markets was driven largely by dVP volume, which grew to approximately 79,000 in 2015 , compared with approximately 65,000 in 2014 , and approximately 56,000 in 2013 . Partial nephrectomy, general surgery, and gynecologic oncology procedures also contributed to OUS procedure growth. See Recent Business Events and Trends for further discussion on U.S. and OUS procedures. Business Model We generate revenue from both the initial capital sales of da Vinci Surgical Systems and from subsequent sales of instruments, accessories and service, as recurring revenue. The da Vinci Surgical System generally sells for approximately between $0.6 million and $2.5 million, depending upon configuration and geography, and represents a significant capital equipment investment for our customers. We generate recurring revenue as our customers purchase our EndoWrist and Single-Site instrument and accessory products used in performing procedures with the da Vinci Surgical System. Our instruments and accessories have a limited life and will either expire or wear out as they are used in surgery, at which point they are replaced.  Also, we generate recurring revenue from ongoing system service.  We typically enter into service contracts at the time systems are sold at an annual rate of approximately $100,000 to $170,000 per year, depending upon the configuration of the underlying system and composition of the services offered under the contract. These service contracts have generally been renewed at the end of the initial contractual service periods. Recurring revenue has generally grown at a faster rate than system revenue in the last few fiscal years. Recurring revenue increased to $1.7 billion , or 70% of total revenue in 2015 , compared with $1.5 billion , or 70% of total revenue in 2014 and $1.4 billion , or 63% of total revenue in 2013 .  The growth of recurring revenue and its increasing proportion of total revenue largely reflect continued procedure adoption on a growing base of installed da Vinci Surgical Systems. The installed base of da Vinci Surgical Systems has grown to approximately 3,597 at December 31, 2015 , compared with 3,266 at December 31, 2014 , and 2,966 at December 31, 2013 . We provide our products through direct sales organizations in the U.S., Japan, South Korea, and Europe, excluding Spain, Portugal, Italy, Greece, and Eastern European countries.  In the remainder of our OUS markets, we provide our products through distributors. In June 2014, we terminated our distribution relationship with and reacquired the distribution rights from Adachi Co., Ltd., our former Japanese distributor, and now market, sell, and service our products directly to end customers in Japan. Intuitive Surgical da Vinci System Leasing Since 2013, we have entered into sales-type and operating lease arrangements directly with certain qualified customers as a way to offer customers flexibility in how they acquire da Vinci systems and expand da Vinci surgery availability while leveraging our balance sheet. The leases generally have commercially competitive terms as compared with other third party entities that offer equipment leasing. We include both operating and sales-type leases in our system shipment and installed base disclosures. We exclude operating leases from our system average selling prices computations. In the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, we shipped 63 , 41 , and 6 systems under lease arrangements, respectively, of which 43 , 14 , and 0 were classified as operating leases, respectively. Generally, our operating leases provide our 38 Table of Contents customers with the right to purchase the leased systems sometime during or at the end of the lease term. We believe this has been an effective program and has been well received by our customers and we plan to continue with our system leasing program in the future. Operating lease revenue for the years ended December 31, 2015, and 2014, was $7.0 million and $1.3 million , respectively. No operating lease revenue was recognized for the year ended December 31, 2013. As of December 31, 2015, 49 da Vinci systems were installed at customers under operating lease arrangements. Regulatory Activities Clearances and Approvals We have obtained the clearances required to market our multiport products associated with the first three generations of our da Vinci Surgical Systems (Standard, S , and Si systems) for our targeted surgical specialties within the U.S. and most of Europe. In February 2013, we received FDA clearance to market our Single-Site instruments for benign hysterectomy and salpingo-oophorectomy procedures.  In September 2014, we received FDA clearance to market the wristed version of our Single-Site needle driver product for use in benign hysterectomy, cholecystectomy, and salpingo-oophorectomy procedures. In March 2014, we received FDA clearance to market our da Vinci Xi Surgical System in the U.S., our fourth generation da Vinci Surgical System (see the complete description of the da Vinci Xi Surgical System in the New Product Introductions Section). In June 2014, we received CE mark clearance for our da Vinci Xi Surgical System in Europe. In October 2014, we received regulatory clearance for our da Vinci Xi Surgical System in South Korea. In March 2015, we received regulatory clearance for the da Vinci Xi Surgical System in Japan. The regulatory status of the da Vinci Xi Surgical System in other OUS markets varies by country. We also received FDA clearance on an initial set of instruments for the Xi Surgical system with the initial launch of the system in April 2014.  Later in 2014, we received FDA clearances for Xi versions of our EndoWrist One Vessel Sealer, Firefly , and EndoWrist Stapler 45.  In the second quarter of 2015, we received FDA clearance for an additional set of da Vinci Xi instruments.  In June 2015, we received CE mark clearance for our integrated table motion product in Europe (see the complete description of the da Vinci Xi Integrated Table Motion in the New Product Introductions Section). We received FDA clearance for the integrated table motion product in January 2016. We filed for FDA 510(k) clearances in the U.S. for the Single-Site instruments and the 30mm EndoWrist stapler products for the da Vinci Xi Surgical System in August 2015 (see the complete description of the EndoWrist Stapler 30 in the New Product Introductions Section). In the future, we plan to apply for additional clearances to expand the da Vinci Xi platform product and feature set, including the da Vinci Single Port Surgical System, as described below. In April 2014, we received FDA clearance to market our da Vinci Single Port Surgical System in the U.S. for single-port urologic surgeries. We are in the process of modifying the da Vinci Single Port Surgical System to be compatible with the da Vinci Xi Surgical system. We plan to seek additional FDA clearance(s) for the da Vinci Single Port Surgical System for procedure(s) in which a single small entry point to the body and parallel delivery of instruments is important. Such surgeries could include those performed through a natural orifice like the mouth for head and neck procedures or those performed through a single skin incision. We anticipate increased clinical evaluation of da Vinci Single Port Surgical System in 2016, particularly in transoral and transabdominal applications. We obtained approval from the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor, and Welfare (“MHLW”) for our da Vinci Si Surgical System in October 2012 and for our da Vinci Xi Surgical System in March 2015. Effective April 2012, we obtained national reimbursement for dVP procedures in Japan, our only broadly reimbursed procedure to date. We are currently seeking reimbursement for additional procedures through the MHLW's Senshin Iryo processes as well as alternative reimbursement processes. Our Senshin Iryo approvals require in-country clinical data and are considered for reimbursed status in April of even numbered years. Japanese surgeons have submitted clinical data for consideration of partial nephrectomy reimbursement in the April 2016 cycle. There can be no assurance that we will gain additional Senshin Iryo reimbursements for the procedures or at the times we have targeted. We are continuing our discussions with stakeholders concerning the reimbursement for several other procedures; however inclusion of other procedures in reimbursement guidelines in 2016 is unlikely. If we are not successful in obtaining additional regulatory clearances, importation licenses, and adequate procedure reimbursements for future products and procedures, then the demand for our products in Japan could be limited. FDA Inspections During October 2015, the FDA conducted a routine inspection at our Sunnyvale facilities. The scope of the inspection included general surveillance in the form of a quality system inspection technique (“QSIT”) and follow-up on previous observations identified in the Form FDA 483 that was issued in 2014. No observations were communicated to us at the close of the October audit or in the final establishment inspection report (“EIR”) received from the FDA in December of 2015. 39 Table of Contents Recalls and Corrections Medical device companies have regulatory obligations to correct or remove medical devices in the field that could pose a risk to health. The definition of “recalls and corrections” is expansive and includes repair, replacement, inspections, re-labeling and issuance of new, added or reinforcement of instructions for use and training when such actions are taken for specific reasons of safety or compliance. These field actions require stringent documentation, reporting and monitoring worldwide. There are other actions which a medical device manufacturer may take in the field without reporting, including routine servicing, the introduction of new products, and new indications for use and stock rotations. As we determine whether a field action is reportable in any regulatory jurisdiction, we prepare and submit notifications to the appropriate regulatory agency for the particular jurisdiction. In general, upon submitting required notifications to regulators regarding a field action which is a recall or correction, we will notify customers regarding the field action, provide any additional documentation required in their national language, and arrange, as required, return or replacement of the affected product or a field service visit to perform the correction. In addition, regulators can require the expansion, reclassification, or change in scope and language of the field action. Field actions can result in adverse effects on our business, including damage to reputation, delays by customers of purchase decisions, reduction or stoppage of use of installed systems, and reduced revenue as well as increased expenses to complete field actions. In September 2014, we stopped shipping the EndoWrist Stapler 45 for the da Vinci Si Surgical System and advised our customers to suspend use. While the observed failure rate in the field was low at 0.023%, based on the total number of staple fires, we believe that immediately suspending use was the best course of action in the interest of patients. Our investigation of the three failed EndoWrist Staplers uncovered two separate failure modes in the clamp mechanism: 1) a component failure in two instruments and 2) an assembly error in one instrument. Based on these findings, in December 2014, we voluntarily initiated a field recall related to the EndoWrist Stapler 45 instrument for the da Vinci Si Surgical System. We have refined the relevant design elements and manufacturing processes to address these failure modes and began shipping replacement instruments in early 2015. In March 2015, we issued a safety notice regarding certain equipment drapes that are used to cover a variety of surgical and non-surgical equipment in the clinical setting, advising our customers to inspect the drapes for cloudy or waxy appearances and for potential tears prior to use, and to return affected drapes. We are now shipping the replacement version of the drape products. Certain outcomes from any of the above regulatory activities may have a material adverse effect on our business, including damage to reputation, delays by customers of purchase decisions, reduction or stoppage of the use of our installed systems, and reduced revenue as well as increased expenses. 40 Table of Contents Recent Business Events and Trends Procedures Overall. During the year ended December 31, 2015 , total da Vinci procedures grew approximately 14% compared with 9% for the year ended December 31, 2014 . U.S. procedure growth during the year ended December 31, 2015 was approximately 11% , compared with approximately 6% for the year ended December 31, 2014 . The higher 2015 U.S. procedure growth was largely attributable to growth in general surgery procedures, most notably hernia repair and colorectal procedures, growth in dVP, and in contrast to the unfavorable impact of transitional issues associated with the implementation of the Affordable Care Act had on our procedure growth in early 2014. Procedure volume OUS for the year ended December 31, 2015 , grew approximately 26% compared with approximately 20% growth for the year ended December 31, 2014 , driven by continued growth in dVP and earlier stage growth in kidney cancer, colorectal, and gynecologic oncology procedures. The higher 2015 OUS procedure growth rate reflects increased da Vinci adoption in Asian markets, including China, Japan, and South Korea. While we are encouraged by procedure adoption in China, future system placements and our ability to sustain procedure growth are dependent on obtaining importation authorizations and hospitals completing the central purchasing tender under the authorization, the most recent of which expired at the end of 2015. The timing and magnitude of future authorizations, which may enable system placements in 2016 and beyond, is not certain. In Japan, procedure growth rates are likely to be paced by the timing of procedure reimbursement approvals for procedures in addition to dVP. U.S. Gynecology . Gynecology is our largest U.S. surgical specialty and the procedure volume was approximately 238,000 in 2015 , compared with 235,000 in 2014 and 240,000 in 2013 . Our growth until 2013 was driven by adoption of dVH, our highest volume procedure, and other gynecologic procedures, including sacrocolpopexy and myomectomy largely resulting from capturing market share from open surgery techniques for these procedures. U.S. gynecologic procedure growth slowed significantly in 2013 and declined by approximately 2% in 2014 compared with 2013. We believe that U.S. benign gynecologic procedure volume was pressured by a number of macro factors including, but not limited to, larger patient deductibles and co-pays associated with the Affordable Care Act, a trend by payers toward encouraging conservative disease management, and FDA actions regarding the use of power morcellation in uterine surgeries, which mostly impacted da Vinci myomectomy procedures (see more detailed description of the FDA Actions Concerning Morcellation below). U.S. gynecologic procedures grew approximately 1% in 2015, as compared with 2014. Minimally invasive surgery is presently approaching 80% penetration of the U.S. benign hysterectomy market, causing the rate of migration from open surgeries to minimally invasive surgeries to slow. Combined with the dispersion of the remaining open procedures among hospitals and surgeons, we believe the number of da Vinci hysterectomies over the past two years has moved roughly in-line with the overall surgical market. We believe that an increasing portion of dVH procedures with uncertain oncologic characteristics are being referred to gynecologic oncologists making it increasingly difficult to distinguish between dVH for cancer and dVH for benign conditions.  A high proportion of gynecologic oncologists utilize the da Vinci surgical systems to perform procedures which may account for the slight increase in total dVH procedures in 2015. Based on reporting by our customers, dVH procedure volumes were approximately 196,000, 191,000, and 191,000 in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. U.S. General Surgery. General surgery is our second largest and fastest growing specialty in the U.S. with procedure volume that grew to approximately 140,000 in 2015 , compared with approximately 107,000 in 2014 , and 81,000 in 2013 . Growth through 2013 was driven by rapid adoption of da Vinci Cholecystectomies, the first procedure to be FDA-cleared for Single-Site Surgery, and earlier stage growth in low anterior resections, colon procedures, and several other general surgery procedures. For the year ended 2014, U.S. general surgery procedures grew by approximately 32%, with growth shifting from cholecystectomy to hernia repair, colorectal resections, and other general surgery procedures. This trend has continued in 2015 with overall general surgery growth of approximately 31% . Ventral and inguinal hernia, combined, contributed the most to 2015 general surgery growth, although other categories like colorectal, bariatric, foregut, and other procedures also contributed to the procedure growth. We believe that growth in da Vinci hernia repair reflects improved clinical outcomes within certain patient populations, as well as potential cost benefits relative to certain alternative treatments. While we believe hernia repair procedures represent a significant opportunity with the potential to drive growth in future periods, given the differences in complexity among hernia patient populations, it is difficult to estimate the timing of and to what degree da Vinci hernia repair procedure volume will grow in the future. We expect a large portion of hernia repairs will continue to be performed in different modalities of surgery. In December 2011, we received FDA clearance for Single-Site Cholecystectomy, our first procedure cleared for Single-Site instruments. da Vinci cholecystectomies are performed with either Single-Site instruments or multiport instruments. While we believe da Vinci cholecystectomies provide meaningful value for a segment of the patient and surgeon population, it is a lower complexity procedure which can generally be executed in a minimally invasive manner via multiport laparoscopy and has lower reimbursement rates than more complex procedures. For these reasons, it is difficult to estimate to what degree or timing that we 41 Table of Contents may capture these procedures. During 2014, total U.S. cholecystectomies grew at a lower rate than in previous years, and modestly declined in 2015. Declines in Single-Site cholecystectomy were partially offset by higher multiport cholecystectomy volumes. Adoption of colorectal procedures, which includes several underlying procedures including low anterior resections for rectal cancers and certain colon procedures for benign and cancer conditions, has been ongoing for several years, and is supported by recently launched technologies such as the da Vinci Xi Surgical System, EndoWrist Stapler, and EndoWrist Vessel Sealer. dVP. U.S. dVP is the largest urology procedure in the U.S. with 66,000 dVPs performed in 2015, compared with 60,000 in 2014, and 58,000 in 2013. We believe the 2011 U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (“USPTF”) recommendation against Prostate-Specific Antigen ((“PSA”) screening has impacted our U.S. dVP procedure volumes, as well as caused changes in treatment patterns for low risk prostate cancer away from definitive treatment, and contributed to an approximate 6% decline in our dVP business in 2013. After continuing to decline during the first half of 2014, U.S. dVP returned to growth during the second half of 2014 and accelerated to approximately 11% growth in 2015. As the U.S. standard of care for the surgical treatment of prostate cancer, we expect that the number of dVP procedures performed in the U.S. will fluctuate with the overall prostatectomy market. We believe the return to growth in dVP reflects surgical procedures being performed for men who may have previously deferred PSA testing or definitive treatment. dVP adoption in our markets outside of the U.S. is at earlier stages, with lower market penetration, and has continued to grow since the USPTF recommendation and despite shifting patient treatment trends that have negatively impacted the overall prostatectomy volumes in certain countries. Procedure Seasonality. More than half of da Vinci procedures performed are for benign conditions, most notably benign hysterectomies, hernia repairs, and cholecystectomies. The proportion of these benign procedures has grown over time in relation to the total number of procedures performed. Hysterectomies for benign conditions, hernia repairs, cholecystectomies, and other short-term elective procedures tend to be more seasonal than cancer operations and surgeries for other life threatening conditions.  Seasonality for these benign procedures results in higher fourth quarter procedure volume when more patients have met annual deductibles and lower first quarter procedure volume when deductibles are reset. Seasonality for 2015 was similar to years prior to 2014, with higher procedure volumes in the fourth quarter, and less pronounced than in early 2014, when we believe procedure volume was negatively impacted by transitional issues associated with the implementation of the Affordable Care Act. Procedure Mix. Our procedure business is primarily comprised of: (1) cancer and other highly complex procedures and (2) less complex benign procedures. Cancer and other highly complex procedures tend to be reimbursed at higher rates than less complex benign procedures.  Thus, hospitals are more sensitive to the costs associated with treating less complex benign conditions. Our strategy is to provide hospitals with attractive clinical and economic solutions in each of these procedure categories. More fully featured products, including 4-arm, dual console, Firefly enabled systems, and advanced instruments including vessel sealing and stapler are targeted towards more complex procedures. Lower priced products, including three-arm da Vinci Si-e Systems, refurbished da Vinci Si , and lower priced Single-Site instruments are targeted towards less complex procedures. FDA Actions Concerning Morcellation .  In April 2014, the FDA announced that it discourages the use of power morcellators in the surgical removal of assumed benign fibroids. This statement was followed in July 2014 by an FDA panel discussion on the topic.  In November 2014, the FDA issued specific contraindications for the use of laparoscopic power morcellation and required specific patient warning prior to its use in surgery. We do not manufacture or sell power morcellation products, and power morcellators do not attach to da Vinci Surgical Systems. Minimally invasive da Vinci gynecologic surgeries are routinely performed without the use of power morcellators.  However, we believe that these FDA actions likely created some uncertainty for surgeons and patients when choosing among minimally invasive surgical methods for removing fibroids that may have adversely impacted the number of da Vinci procedures performed.  Since the second quarter of 2014, we have experienced a decline in myomectomies that we believe likely reflected the impact of the FDA actions. Myomectomies are not a significant portion of our business. It is difficult to gauge what impact the FDA actions may have had on benign dVH procedures, although as indicated above, an increasing proportion of our hysterectomy procedures in recent quarters have been performed by gynecologic oncologists. System Demand Future demand for da Vinci Surgical Systems will be impacted by factors including procedure growth rates, market response to our recently launched da Vinci Xi Surgical System, hospitals consolidation trends, evolving system utilization and point of care dynamics, additional reimbursements in various global markets including Japan, the timing around governmental tenders and authorizations, the timing of when we receive regulatory clearances in our other OUS markets for our Xi System and related instruments. Future demand may also be impacted by anticipated robotic surgery competition, which is further described in the Competition section included in Part I,