MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview Open surgery remains the predominant form of surgery and is used in almost every area of the body.  However, the large incisions required for open surgery create trauma to the patient, typically resulting in longer hospitalization and recovery times, increased hospitalization costs and additional pain and suffering relative to MIS, where MIS is available.  Over the past two decades, MIS has reduced trauma to the patient by allowing selected surgeries to be performed through small ports rather than large incisions.  MIS has been widely adopted for certain surgical procedures, but it has not been widely adopted for complex reconstructive surgeries. The da Vinci Surgical System enables surgeons to extend the benefits of MIS to many patients who would otherwise undergo a more invasive surgery by using computational, robotic and imaging technologies to overcome many of the limitations of conventional MIS.  Surgeons using the da Vinci system operate while seated comfortably at a console viewing a Three Dimensional (“3-D”), High Definition (“HD”) image of the surgical field.  This immersive visualization connects surgeons to the surgical field and their instruments.  While seated at the console, the surgeon manipulates instrument controls in a natural manner, similar to the more intuitive open surgery technique.  Our multi-port technology is designed to provide surgeons with a range of motion in the surgical field analogous to the motions of a human wrist, while filtering out the tremor inherent in a surgeon’s hand.  In designing our products, we focus on making our technology easy to use. Our products fall into four broad categories - da Vinci Surgical Systems, InSite and Firefly Fluorescence imaging systems (“ Firefly ”), instruments and accessories (e.g., EndoWrist , EndoWrist One Vessel Sealer, da Vinci Single-Site and EndoWrist Stapler 45) and training technologies.  We have commercialized three generations of da Vinci Surgical Systems; the first is our standard da Vinci Surgical System, first commercialized in 1999, the second is our da Vinci S Surgical System, commercialized in 2006, and the third and most current is our da Vinci Si Surgical System, commercialized in 2009.  Systems include a surgeon’s console (or consoles), imaging electronics, a patient-side cart and computational hardware and software. Instruments and accessories are used with systems to allow surgeons the flexibility in choosing the types of tools needed in a particular surgery.  In the fourth quarter of 2011, we introduced our Single-Site instruments in the U.S. for use in cholecystectomy procedures utilizing the da Vinci Si Surgical System.  During the first quarter of 2013, Single-Site instruments were FDA cleared in the U.S. for use in benign hysterectomies and salpingo oophorectomies.  Single-Site instruments enable surgeons to perform surgery through a single port via the patient’s belly button, resulting in virtually scarless patient outcomes.  Single-Site instruments were Conformité Européenne (“CE”) marked and introduced in Europe in the first quarter of 2011.  Training technologies include our recently developed da Vinci Connect remote case observation and mentoring tool, our da Vinci Skills Simulator and our dual console for use in surgeon proctoring and collaborative surgery. Procedures We model patient value as equal to procedure efficacy / invasiveness .  In this equation procedure efficacy is defined as a measure of the success of the surgery in resolving the underlying disease and invasiveness is defined as a measure of patient pain and disruption of regular activities.  When the patient value of a da Vinci procedure is greater than that of alternative treatment options, patients may benefit from seeking out surgeons and hospitals that offer da Vinci surgery, which potentially could result in a local market share shift.  Adoption occurs procedure by procedure, and is driven by the relative patient value of da Vinci procedures compared to alternative treatment options for the same disease state. Worldwide Procedures The adoption of da Vinci surgery has the potential to grow for those procedures that offer greater patient value than non da Vinci alternatives.  We focus our organization and investments on developing, marketing and training for those products and procedures where da Vinci can bring significant patient value relative to alternative treatment options.  In 2013, da Vinci was used primarily in gynecology, urology, general surgery, cardiothoracic surgery and head and neck surgery.  Target procedures in gynecology include da Vinci Hysterectomy (“dVH”), sacrocolpopexy, myomectomy and endometriosis resection.  Target procedures in urology include da Vinci Prostatectomy (“dVP”), partial nephrectomy and pyeloplasty.  Target procedures in general surgery include Single-Site Cholecystectomy, colorectal procedures, and a broad base of other general surgery procedures.  In cardiothoracic surgery, target procedures include da Vinci Lobectomy and da Vinci Mitral Valve Repair.  In head and neck surgery, target procedures include da Vinci Trans-oral Robotic-Assisted Surgery (“TORS”) for throat and base of tongue cancers. In 2013 , approximately 523,000 surgical procedures were performed with the da Vinci Surgical System, compared to approximately 450,000 and 359,000 procedures performed in 2012 and 2011 , respectively.  The growth in our overall procedure volume in 2013 was driven by the growth in U.S. general surgery procedures, U.S. gynecologic procedures and urology procedures outside of the U.S. 37 Table of Contents U.S. Procedures Overall U.S. procedure volume grew to approximately 422,000 in 2013 , compared to approximately 367,000 in 2012 ,  and 292,000 in 2011 . Gynecology is our largest U.S. surgical specialty.  Overall U.S. gynecology procedure volume grew from approximately 170,000 cases in 2011 to approximately 222,000 in 2012 and to approximately 240,000 in 2013.  The growth was driven by adoption of dVH, our highest volume procedure, and other gynecologic procedures, including sacrocolpopexy and myomectomy.  U.S. dVH procedure volume grew from approximately 140,000 cases in 2011 to approximately 176,000 cases in 2012 to approximately 191,000 cases in 2013, of which approximately 41,000 were for the treatment of cancer and approximately 150,000 were related to benign conditions.  The lower 2013 U.S. gynecology procedure growth rate reflected a number of factors including, but not limited to, dVH for cancer approaching standard of care penetration levels, apparent pressure on benign gynecology hospital admissions, negative media reports, and a trend by payers toward encouraging conservative disease management and treatment in outpatient settings.  We estimate the total annual U.S. addressable robotic hysterectomy market to consist of approximately 300,000 procedures previously performed via open surgery, of which approximately 50,000 are for cancer. Based upon procedure run rates exiting 2013, general surgery is now our second largest and fastest growing specialty in the U.S.  Overall U.S. general surgery procedure volume grew from approximately 15,000 cases in 2011 to approximately 42,000 in 2012 and to approximately 81,000 in 2013. Over 800 customers have purchased da Vinci Single-Site instrumentation through the end of 2013. U.S. urology procedure volume was approximately 85,000 in 2013, compared to approximately 88,000 in 2012, and 93,000 in 2011.  We consider dVP to be the standard of care for the surgical treatment of prostate cancer in the U.S. About 58,000 dVPs were performed in 2013, compared to 62,000 in 2012, and 73,000 in 2011.  The approximately 15% reduction in 2012 dVP procedures in the U.S. were caused by the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommendation against prostate-specific antigen (“PSA”) screening, as well as changes in treatment pattern for low risk prostate cancer away from definitive treatment.  U.S. dVP volumes appear to have stabilized throughout 2013. International Procedures Overall international procedure volume grew to approximately 101,000 in 2013 , compared to approximately 83,000 in 2012 and 68,000 in 2011 .  dVP accounted for the majority of international procedures, having grown from about 40,000 in 2011, to 47,000 in 2012, and to 56,000 in 2013.  Growth in international dVP was driven by higher procedure volumes in Japan, Italy, the United Kingdom and Australia. Procedure Seasonality The majority of da Vinci procedures performed are now for benign conditions, most notably benign hysterectomies.  The proportion of these benign procedures is growing in relation to the total number of procedures performed.  Hysterectomies for benign conditions and other short-term elective procedures tend to be more seasonal than cancer operations and surgeries for other life threatening conditions.  Seasonality for these benign procedures results in higher fourth quarter procedure volume when more patients have met annual deductibles and lower first quarter procedure volume when deductibles are reset.  Third quarter activity is also slower given vacation periods, particularly in Europe.  As we achieve deeper penetration in certain procedures, seasonality has a more substantial impact on our business. Business Model We generate revenue from both the initial capital sales of da Vinci Surgical Systems as well as recurring revenue, derived from sales of instruments, accessories and service.  The da Vinci Surgical System generally sells for between $1.0 million and $2.3 million, depending upon configuration and geography, and represents a significant capital equipment investment for our customers.  We generate recurring revenue as our customers consume our EndoWrist and Single-Site instruments and accessory products used in performing procedures with the da Vinci Surgical System.  Our instruments and accessories have a limited life and will either expire or wear out as they are used in surgery, at which point they are replaced.  We also generate recurring revenue from ongoing system service.  We typically enter into service contracts at the time systems are sold at an annual rate of approximately $100,000 to $170,000 per year, depending upon the configuration of the underlying system.  These service contracts have generally been renewed at the end of the initial contractual service periods. Recurring revenue has generally grown at a faster rate than the rate of growth of system revenue.  Recurring revenue increased from $979.5 million , or 56% of total revenue in 2011 to $1,245.9 million , or 57% of total revenue in 2012 to $1,430.2 million , or 63% of total revenue in 2013 .  The increase in recurring revenue relative to system revenue reflects lower 2013 system sales and continuing adoption of procedures on a growing base of installed da Vinci Surgical Systems.  The installed base of da Vinci Surgical Systems has grown to 2,966 at December 31, 2013 , compared with 2,585 at December 31, 2012 , and 2,132 at December 31, 2011 . We provide our products through a direct sales organization in the U.S. and in Europe, excluding Spain, Italy, Greece and Eastern European countries.  In January 2012, we acquired our Korean distributor and began selling directly to Korean customers. 38 Table of Contents Beginning in 2013, we began to provide our products through a direct sales organization in the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary, whereas prior to 2013, these markets were served by a distributor.  In the remainder of our world markets, we provide our products through distributors. Regulatory Activities We believe that we have obtained the clearances required to market our multiport products to our targeted surgical specialties within the U.S. and most of Europe.  As we make additions to target procedures and introduce new products, we will continue to seek necessary clearances.  In February 2013, we received FDA clearance to market our Single-Site instruments for benign hysterectomy and salpingo oophorectomy procedures.  FDA clearance for Single-Site Cholecystectomy was received in December 2011. In September 2013, we received FDA clearance to expand the indication for use for Firefly to include visual assessment of at least one of the major extra-hepatic bile ducts (cystic duct, common bile duct and common heptatic duct), using near infrared imaging.  Fluorescence imaging of biliary ducts with the da Vinci Fluorescence Imaging Vision System is intended for use with standard of care white light and, when indicated, intraoperative cholangiography.  The device is not intended for standalone use for biliary duct visualization.  We believe that the use of Firefly during cholecystectomy procedures will enhance the ability of surgeons to identify key anatomical structures during the surgery. In November 2009, we received Shonin approval from the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor, and Welfare (“MHLW”) for our da Vinci S Surgical System in Japan.  Until April 2012, we had partnered with the experienced regulatory team from Johnson & Johnson K.K. Medical Company (“JJKK”) to assist in navigating the Japanese regulatory process.  In April 2012, the Marketing Authorization Application for da Vinci products was transferred to Intuitive Surgical Japan from JJKK, and Intuitive Surgical Japan now has primary responsibility for regulatory support of our products in Japan.  We continue to partner with Adachi Co., Ltd as our separate independent distribution partner for marketing, selling, and servicing our products in Japan.  Effective April 2012, we obtained national reimbursement for the dVP procedures in Japan, our only reimbursed procedure to date.  In Japan additional procedures are considered for reimbursed status in April of even numbered years as the MHLW considers recommendations and data brought forth from Japanese surgical societies.  We do not expect any additional procedures to be granted reimbursement status in the April 2014 cycle.  We are supporting the Japanese surgical societies to gather the necessary data for MHLW consideration for reimbursement of additional procedures in the April 2016 cycle.  In October 2012, we obtained MHLW approval for da Vinci Si Surgical Systems in Japan.  If we are not successful in obtaining additional regulatory clearances, importation licenses, and adequate procedure reimbursements for future products and procedures, then the demand for our products in Japan could be limited. FDA Inspection A FDA inspection of the Company’s facilities occurred in April-May 2013 and the FDA issued a Form FDA 483 listing four observations relating to the reporting of field corrections, information which is to be included on reports of field corrections, written procedures for changes to certain product labeling, and design input documentation.  We responded to each observation with corrective actions during the course of the inspection and provided additional evidence of corrective actions to the FDA in response to the Form FDA 483.  The FDA issued a Warning Letter, dated July 16, 2013, related to two of the four Form FDA 483 observations asking for additional corrective actions and indicated their intent to perform a follow-up inspection.  We have responded to the Warning Letter with plans for corrective action, and continue to provide supplemental responses with objective evidence of corrections as they are completed.  In addition, the FDA collected electronic samples of all our advertising and promotional material for review, and to date have taken no action in connection therewith.  However, we cannot assure that, upon re-inspection, the FDA will find that our corrective actions are acceptable or that they have been adequately implemented.  We also cannot assure that the FDA will not find other observations.  The FDA previously inspected our Sunnyvale, CA facilities in January 2012 and did not issue a Form FDA 483 as a result of this inspection. The receipt of a Warning Letter places certain limits on the ability to obtain FDA issued Certificates to Foreign Government used for new and re-registration of products in certain foreign countries. Medical Device Reporting In September of 2012 we contacted the Office of Surveillance and Biometrics (“OSB”) in the FDA Center for Devices and Radiological Health (“CDRH”) regarding proposed changes to our reporting practices for non-injury malfunction Medical Device Reports (“MDRs”).  In addition we discussed summary reporting for well characterized events.  As a result of the proposed changes, we have increased our reports of device malfunction MDRs, the vast majority of which are related to instruments and not to systems.  By definition, none of these device malfunction MDRs involve reportable injuries or deaths.  These MDRs are posted on the FDA Manufacturer and User Facility Device Experience (“MAUDE”) database. In addition, claims brought to our attention by plaintiffs’ attorneys, which contain allegations of patient injury, are required to be investigated.  In those cases in which da Vinci was used and the system cannot yet be ruled out as a cause of the alleged injury, these cases are reported to the FDA as MDRs.  This has led to increases in MDRs. 39 Table of Contents We will continue to work with the FDA, CDRH and OSB to establish agreement on reporting criteria and to complete any retrospective reporting that may be required as a result of new criteria.  We cannot predict when this work will be completed as it is highly dependent on FDA questions and the acceptance of our responses and data. Recalls and Corrections Medical device companies have regulatory obligations to correct or remove medical devices in the field which have factors which could pose a risk to health.  The definition of Recalls and Corrections is expansive and includes repair, replacement, inspections, re-labeling and issuance of new, added or reinforcement of instructions for use and training when such actions are taken for specific reasons of safety or compliance.  These field actions require stringent documentation, reporting and monitoring worldwide.  There are other actions which a medical device manufacturer may take in the field without reporting, including routine servicing, the introduction of new products, new indications for use and stock rotations. As we determine whether a field action is reportable in any regulatory jurisdiction, we prepare and submit notifications to the appropriate regulatory agency for the particular jurisdiction.  In general, upon submitting required notifications to regulators regarding a field action which is a recall or correction, we will notify customers regarding the field action, provide any additional documentation required in their national language and arrange, as required, return or replacement of the affected product or a field service visit to perform the correction.  In some cases actions taken us that we believed to be routine or not reportable may be retrospectively classified by regulators as reportable, resulting in the reporting of additional field actions, which in some cases may have already been completed.  In addition, regulators can require the expansion, reclassification or change in scope and language of the field action.  Field actions can result in adverse effects on the business including damage to reputation, delays by customers of purchase decisions, reduction or stoppage of use of installed systems, and reduced revenue as well as increased expenses to complete field actions. 2013 Business Events and Trends Procedures Overall. During the year ended December 31, 2013 , total da Vinci procedures grew approximately 16% compared with 2012, driven by growth in general surgery and gynecology procedures in the U.S. and international urology procedures, partially offset by an approximately 6% reduction in dVP procedures in the U.S. dVP. We believe the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommendation against PSA screening, as well as changes in treatment patterns for low risk prostate cancer away from definitive treatment, have led to a decline in our dVP business.  During 2013, U.S. dVP procedure volumes appear to have stabilized, with a gradually decreasing trend.  These treatment patterns have also impacted our European dVP procedure volumes.  dVP is at earlier market penetration stages in the European markets; therefore, we are unable to precisely estimate the extent to which these recommendations and treatment pattern changes may have been adopted by governments or clinicians within non-U.S. jurisdictions. Benign Gynecology Procedure Adoption Trends. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we experienced lower growth rates in the category of U.S. benign gynecologic procedures than in prior years.  The slower 2013 growth rate in the category of U.S. benign gynecologic procedures reflected a number of factors including, but not limited to, apparent pressure on benign gynecology hospital admissions, negative media reports, and a trend by payers toward encouraging conservative disease management and treatment in outpatient settings.   We still have a significant remaining market opportunity in benign gynecologic procedures since a large number are still done via open technique.  However, as we penetrate more deeply into benign gynecologic procedures, our pace of capturing or consolidating the remaining market is progressing at a slower rate than previously. Monopolar Curved Scissors Field Action. During early May 2013, we issued a field notice informing customers of the potential for micro-crack formations in certain of our EndoWrist Monopolar Curved Scissors (“MCS”).  We decided to stop shipment of these versions until a replacement product was made available.  However, as the risk of injury to patients from the recalled product was extremely low, customers were notified that they could continue to use the recalled product; which most did.  To date, we have no confirmed evidence of patient injury attributable to this issue.  The replacement MCS product began shipping on May 31, 2013.  We do not believe that this field action materially impacted our 2013 procedure volume and customer returns of the recalled product have not been material. Environment and Demand for Our Products During the year ended December 31, 2013, there have been a number of factors that have resulted in slowing growth rates in U.S. benign gynecologic procedures as noted previously.  We expect growth in benign procedures to continue at a level below 2012 and could decline further depending on changes in hospital admissions, payer behavior, the impact of the Affordable Care Act and other factors.  In the future, demand for da Vinci systems will be impacted by factors including procedure growth rates, economic pressure and uncertainty at hospitals associated with the Affordable Care Act, evolving system utilization and point of care dynamics, likely variability in the timing of Japanese systems sales given the time until potential additional da Vinci procedures will be considered for reimbursement, anticipated in 2016, and changing economic and geopolitical factors.  The European credit 40 Table of Contents and sovereign debt issues have slowed capital sales and curtailed procedure growth during 2012 and through 2013.  European uncertainties could adversely impact demand for our products globally. New Product Introductions da Vinci Single-Site Instruments. da Vinci Single-Site is a set of non-wristed instruments and accessories that allow the da Vinci Si systems to work through a single incision, typically in the umbilicus, rather than multiple incisions.  Single incision surgery is intended to minimize invasiveness to patients by reducing the number of ports required to enter the body and is typically utilized for less complex surgery than multi-port surgery.  Non-robotic single incision surgery today is typically performed with modified laparoscopic instruments.  Early clinical adoption of this manual technique has been mostly positive, although physicians have reported that manual single incision surgery is technically and ergonomically challenging. da Vinci Single-Site instruments and accessories were designed to address these issues.  In February 2011, we received the CE mark for our da Vinci Single-Site instrument kit and began selling these new products in Europe.  The majority of da Vinci Single-Site procedures performed in Europe to date have been cholecystectomies.  In December 2011, we received U.S. FDA regulatory clearance to market our Single-Site instrumentation in the U.S. for laparoscopic cholecystectomy procedures.  In February 2013, we received FDA clearance to market our Single-Site instruments for benign hysterectomy and salpingo oophorectomy procedures.  We are encouraged by hospital, surgeon, and patient interest in da Vinci Single-Site , with over 800 U.S. customers having purchased da Vinci Single-Site kits as of December 31, 2013.  However, as these are our initial products targeted towards procedures already highly penetrated by manual MIS techniques, we are not able to predict the extent or pace that da Vinci Single-Site may be adopted. da Vinci Firefly Fluorescence Imaging. In the first quarter of 2011, we launched our Firefly product for use with the da Vinci Si Surgical System.  This imaging capability combines a fluorescent dye with a specialized da Vinci camera head, endoscope and laser-based illuminator to allow surgeons to identify vasculature in three dimensions beneath tissue surfaces to visualize critical anatomy.  Adoption of Firefly is progressing with use across the categories of urology, gynecology and general surgery.  In September 2013, we received FDA 510(k) clearance to market our Firefly fluorescence imaging product for real-time imaging of bile ducts (cystic duct, common bile duct and common hepatic duct).  We believe that the use of Firefly during cholecystectomy procedures will enhance the ability of surgeons to identify key anatomical structures during the surgery. EndoWrist One Vessel Sealer. In December 2011, we received FDA clearance for the EndoWrist One Vessel Sealer.  The EndoWrist One Vessel Sealer is a wristed, single-use instrument intended for bipolar coagulation and mechanical transection of vessels up to 7 mm in diameter and tissue bundles that fit in the jaws of the instrument.  This instrument enables da Vinci Si surgeons to fully control vessel sealing, while providing the benefits of da Vinci Surgery.  This instrument is designed to enhance surgical efficiency and autonomy in a variety of general surgery and gynecologic procedures.  Clinical response to the EndoWrist One Vessel Sealer has been encouraging, with positive commentary on precision, articulation, vessel sealing quality and thermal spread.  We expect applications for the EndoWrist One Vessel Sealer to be centered on general surgery and gynecologic oncology procedures. EndoWrist One Vessel Sealer utilization rates have increased steadily in 2013. EndoWrist Stapler 45. In October 2012, we received FDA clearance for the EndoWrist Stapler 45 instrument with Blue and Green 45 mm reloads.  The EndoWrist Stapler 45 is a wristed, stapling instrument intended for resection, transection and/or creation of anastomoses in general, gynecologic and urologic surgery.  This instrument enables operators of the da Vinci Si to precisely position and fire the stapler.  We expect its initial surgical use to be directed towards colorectal procedures.  During fiscal 2013, the EndoWrist Stapler was used by a limited and gradually increasing number of customers.  We expect to continue to expand to a broadening set of customers in 2014.  Although our first customer experiences have been positive, we are in the early stages of selling EndoWrist Stapler 45 and we are not able to predict the extent to which the instrument may be adopted. Recent Media and Lawsuits Prior to and during the twelve months ended December 31, 2013, various print, television, and internet media have released pieces questioning the patient safety and efficacy associated with da Vinci Surgery, the cost of da Vinci Surgery relative to other disease management methods, the adequacy of surgeon training, and the Company’s sales and marketing practices.  In addition, as further described below in “Part I,