Management’s discussion and analysis of the Company’s financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Company has identified the policies outlined below as critical to its business operations and an understanding of results of operations. The listing is not intended to be a comprehensive list of all accounting policies; investors should also refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Business Combinations We allocate the purchase price of acquired businesses to the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the date of the acquisition. The calculations used to determine the fair value of the long-lived assets acquired, 40 Table of Contents primarily intangible assets, can be complex and require significant judgment. We weigh many factors when completing these estimates including, but not limited to, the nature of the acquired company’s business; its competitive position, strengths, and challenges; its historical financial position and performance; estimated customer retention rates; discount rates; and future plans for the combined entity. We may also engage independent valuation specialists, when necessary, to assist in the fair value calculations for significant acquired long-lived assets. The fair value of acquired technology is generally the primary asset identified and therefore estimated using the multi-period excess earnings method. The multi-period excess earnings method model estimates revenues and cash flows derived from the primary asset and then deducts portions of the cash flow that can be attributed to supporting assets, such as Trade Names and in-process research and development, that contributed to the generation of the cash flows. The resulting cash flow, which is attributable solely to the primary asset acquired, is then discounted at a rate of return commensurate with the risk of the asset to calculate a present value. The Trade Name is generally calculated using the relief from royalty method, which calculates the cost savings associated with owning rather than licensing the technology. Assumed royalty rates are applied to the projected revenues for the remaining useful life of the technology to estimate the royalty savings. In-process research and development assets are valued using the multi-period excess earnings method when the cash flows from the in-process research and development assets are separately identifiable from the primary asset. In circumstances that Customer Relationship assets are identified that are not the primary asset, they are valued using the distributor model income approach, which isolates revenues and cash flow associated with the sales and distribution function of the entity and attributable to customer-related assets, which are then discounted at a rate of return commensurate with the risk of the asset to calculate a present value. We estimate the fair value of liabilities for contingent consideration by discounting to present value the probability weighted contingent payments expected to be made. For potential payments related to financial performance based milestones, projected revenue and/or EBITDA amounts, volatility and discount rates assumptions are included in the estimated amounts. For potential payments related to product development milestones, the fair value is based on the probability of achievement of such milestones. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Goodwill is not amortized, but is subject to impairment testing on at least an annual basis. We are also required to estimate the useful lives of the acquired intangible assets, which determines the amount of acquisition-related amortization expense we will record in future periods. Each reporting period, we evaluate the remaining useful lives of our amortizable intangibles to determine whether events or circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining period of amortization. While we use our best estimates and assumptions, our fair value estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Any adjustments required after the measurement period are recorded in the consolidated statements of earnings. The judgments required in determining the estimated fair values and expected useful lives assigned to each class of assets and liabilities acquired can significantly affect net income. For example, different classes of assets will have useful lives that differ. Consequently, to the extent a longer-lived asset is ascribed greater value than a shorter-lived asset, net income in a given period may be higher. Additionally, assigning a lower value to amortizable intangibles would result in a higher amount assigned to goodwill. As goodwill is not amortized, this would benefit net income in a given period, although goodwill is subject to annual impairment analysis. Impairment of Goodwill Goodwill Goodwill was $822.1 million as of June 30, 2022, which represented 36% of total assets. Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis in the fourth quarter of each year, or more frequently if events occur or circumstances change that could indicate a possible impairment. 41 Table of Contents To analyze goodwill for impairment, we must assign our goodwill to individual reporting units. Identification of reporting units includes an analysis of the components that comprise each of our operating segments, which considers, among other things, the manner in which we operate our business and the availability of discrete financial information. Components of an operating segment are aggregated to form one reporting unit if the components have similar economic characteristics. We periodically review our reporting units to ensure that they continue to reflect the manner in which we operate our business. In the first quarter of fiscal 2022, the Company combined the management of the Exosome Diagnostics and Asuragen reporting units, both of which are included in the Diagnostics and Genomics operating segment. In conjunction with the combination of the reporting units, a qualitative goodwill impairment assessment was performed. The qualitative assessment identified no indicators of impairment. In the second quarter of fiscal 2022, Changzhou Eminence Biotechnology Co., Ltd. (Eminence) notified the Company of its need for additional capital to execute its growth plan. The Company first attempted to find outside equity financing support for the Eminence investment but was unable to do so. The Company then reviewed the additional financing needs required to successfully ramp Eminence’s business, which ultimately did not meet the Company’s return on capital requirements. Therefore, the Company did not provide additional funding to Eminence. As a result of not obtaining additional financing, Eminence notified the Company of its plans to cease operations and liquidate its business. Given the upcoming liquidation process to dispose of the Eminence assets, the Company identified a triggering event and performed impairment testing during the second quarter of fiscal 2022. The impairment testing resulted in a full impairment of the Eminence goodwill and intangible assets, which resulted in charges of $8.3 million and $8.6 million, respectively, for the year ended June 30, 2022. The Company also recognized inventory and fixed asset impairment charges of $0.9 million and $0.9 million, respectively. The Company recorded the impairment charges within the General and Administrative line in the Consolidated Income Statement. The impairment charges recorded within Net Earnings Attributable to Bio-Techne were reduced by approximately $8 million recorded within Net Earnings Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests. The remaining net tangible assets of Eminence included in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of June 30 2022, were $4.3 million and primarily consisted of fixed assets and related deposits of $3.1 million, inventory of $0.6 million, receivables of $0.4 million, and other current assets of $0.1 million. The Company also had $4.5 million related to current liabilities. The Company holds a financial interest of approximately 57.4% in those tangible assets in the upcoming liquidation process. 2022 Goodwill Impairment Analyses In completing our 2022 annual goodwill impairment analyses, we elected to perform a quantitative assessment for all five of our reporting units. A quantitative assessment involves comparing the carrying value of the reporting unit, including goodwill, to its estimated fair value. Carrying value is based on the assets and liabilities associated with the operations of the reporting unit, which often requires the allocation of shared or corporate items among reporting units. In accordance with ASU 2017‑04, a goodwill impairment charge is recorded for the amount by which the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit. In determining the fair values of our reporting units, we utilized the income approach. The income approach is a valuation technique under which we estimated future cash flows using the reporting unit’s financial forecast from the perspective of an unrelated market participant. Using historical trending and internal forecasting techniques, we projected revenue and applied our fixed and variable cost experience rates to the projected revenue to arrive at the future cash flows. A terminal value was then applied to the projected cash flow stream. Future estimated cash flows were discounted to their present value to calculate the estimated fair value. The discount rate used was the value- weighted average of our estimated cost of capital derived using both known and estimated customary market metrics. In determining the estimated fair value of a reporting unit, we were required to estimate a number of factors, including projected operating results, terminal growth rates, economic conditions, anticipated future cash flows, the discount rate and the allocation of shared or corporate items. The result of our quantitative assessment indicated that all of the reporting units had a substantial amount of headroom as of April 1, 2022. This impairment assessment is sensitive to changes in forecasted cash flows, as well as our selected discount rate. Changes in the reporting unit’s results, forecast assumptions and estimates could materially affect the estimation of the fair value of the reporting units. The Company did not identify any triggering events after our annual 42 Table of Contents goodwill impairment through June 30, 2022, the date of our consolidated balance sheet, that would require an additional goodwill impairment assessment to be performed. 2021 Goodwill Impairment Analyses In completing our 2021 annual goodwill impairment analyses, we elected to perform a quantitative assessment for each of our five reporting units. A quantitative assessment involves comparing the carrying value of the reporting unit, including goodwill, to its estimated fair value. Carrying value is based on the assets and liabilities associated with the operations of the reporting unit, which often requires the allocation of shared or corporate items among reporting units. In accordance with ASU 2017-04, a goodwill impairment charge is recorded for the amount by which the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit. In determining the fair values of our reporting units, we utilized the income approach. The income approach is a valuation technique under which we estimated future cash flows using the reporting unit’s financial forecast from the perspective of an unrelated market participant. Using historical trending and internal forecasting techniques, we projected revenue and applied our fixed and variable cost experience rates to the projected revenue to arrive at the future cash flows. A terminal value was then applied to the projected cash flow stream. Future estimated cash flows were discounted to their present value to calculate the estimated fair value. The discount rate used was the value-weighted average of our estimated cost of capital derived using both known and estimated customary market metrics. In determining the estimated fair value of a reporting unit, we were required to estimate a number of factors, including projected operating results, terminal growth rates, economic conditions, anticipated future cash flows, the discount rate and the allocation of shared or corporate items. Because our 2021 quantitative analyses included all of our reporting units, the summation of our reporting units’ fair values, as indicated by our discounted cash flow calculations, were compared to our consolidated fair value, as indicated by our market capitalization, to evaluate the reasonableness of our calculations. This impairment assessment is sensitive to changes in forecasted cash flows, as well as our selected discount rate. Changes in the reporting unit’s results, forecast assumptions and estimates could materially affect the estimation of the fair value of the reporting units. The quantitative assessment completed as of April 1, 2021 indicated that all of the reporting units had a substantial amount of headroom. Accordingly, the Company determined there was no indication of impairment of goodwill in our annual goodwill impairment analysis. Further, no triggering events were identified in the year ended June 30, 2021 that would require an additional goodwill impairment assessment beyond our required annual goodwill impairment assessment. 2020 Goodwill Impairment Analyses In completing our 2020 annual goodwill impairment analyses, we elected to perform a quantitative assessment for all of our reporting units. A quantitative assessment involves comparing the carrying value of the reporting unit, including goodwill, to its estimated fair value. Carrying value is based on the assets and liabilities associated with the operations of the reporting unit, which often requires the allocation of shared or corporate items among reporting units. In accordance with ASU 2017-04, a goodwill impairment charge is recorded for the amount by which the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit. In determining the fair values of our reporting units, we utilized the income approach. The income approach is a valuation technique under which we estimated future cash flows using the reporting unit’s financial forecast from the perspective of an unrelated market participant. Using historical trending and internal forecasting techniques, we projected revenue and applied our fixed and variable cost experience rates to the projected revenue to arrive at the future cash flows. A terminal value was then applied to the projected cash flow stream. Future estimated cash flows were discounted to their present value to calculate the estimated fair value. The discount rate used was the value-weighted average of our estimated cost of capital derived using both known and estimated customary market metrics. In determining the estimated fair value of a reporting unit, we were required to estimate a number of factors, including projected operating results, terminal growth rates, economic conditions, anticipated future cash flows, the discount rate and the allocation of shared or corporate items. Because our 2020 quantitative analyses included all of our reporting units, the summation of our reporting units’ fair values, as indicated by our discounted cash flow calculations, were compared to our consolidated fair value, as indicated by our market capitalization, to evaluate the reasonableness of our calculations. This impairment assessment is sensitive to changes in forecasted cash flows, as well as our selected discount rate. Changes in the reporting unit’s results, forecast assumptions and estimates could materially affect the estimation of the fair value of the reporting units. 43 Table of Contents The quantitative assessment completed as of April 1, 2020 indicated that all of the reporting units had a substantial amount of headroom. Accordingly, the Company determined there was no indication of impairment of goodwill in our annual goodwill impairment analysis. Further, no triggering events were identified in the year ended June 30, 2020 that would require an additional goodwill impairment assessment beyond our required annual goodwill impairment assessment. NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Information regarding the accounting policies adopted during fiscal 2022 and those not yet adopted can be found under caption “Note 1: Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements appear in Item 8 of this report. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS On July 1, 2022, the Company completed the acquisition of Namocell, Inc. for approximately $100 million, plus contingent consideration of up to $25 million upon the achievement of certain future milestones. On August 4, 2022, the Company sold its remaining shares of CCXI for approximately $73.3 million. The cost basis of the investment was $6.6 million. NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including “