Q4 2017 Earnings Call

Operator
Good morning. My name is Darla, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I
would like to welcome everyone to Merck's Fourth Quarter 2017 Sales and Earnings Conference
Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers'
remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to `Teri Loxam, Vice President-Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
`Teri Loxam, Vice President-Investor Relations `
Thanks, Darla, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to Merck's fourth quarter and full-year
2017 conference call. Today, I am joined by Ken Frazier, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer;
Rob Davis, our Chief Financial Officer; Adam Schechter, President of Global Human Health; and
Dr. Roger Perlmutter, President, Merck Research Laboratories.
Before I turn the call over to Ken, I'd like to point out a few items. You will see that we have items
in our GAAP results such as acquisition-related charges, restructuring costs and certain other
items. You should note that we have excluded these from our non-GAAP results and provide a
reconciliation of these in our press release. We have also provided a table in our press release to
help you understand the sales in the quarter for the business units and products.
In addition, you will note that we have included a table in the supplemental financials on the
Investors section of the Merck website, which provides information on the new accounting
standard related to the allocation of pension costs on the income statement. This standard, which
is effective January 1, 2018, requires pension components, other than service cost, to besold, operating expenses and other income and expense will be receded for 2018 reporting
purposes. This change has no impact on net income or EPS but will result in an increase to
expense and an offsetting increase to other income.
The supplemental table shows that the new 2017 amounts will be what they will be when we
report in 2018. Our 2018 guidance for gross margin and operating expense is relative to these
restated 2017 amounts.
I would also like to remind you that some of the statements that we make during today's call may
be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provision of the
U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are made on the current
beliefs of Merck's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainty. If our
underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or uncertainties materialize, actual results may differ
materially from those forth in the forward-looking statements.
Our SEC filings, including Item 1A in the 2016 10-K, identify certain risk factors and cautionary
statements that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those
projected in any of our forward-looking statements made this morning. Merck undertakes no
obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement. You can see our SEC filings as well
as today's earnings release on merck.com.
With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Ken.
`Kenneth C. Frazier, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Teri. Hello to everyone and thank you all for joining the call today. Last year, 2017, was
another successful year for Merck as we continue pursuing our mission of advancing the most
promising science across our Animal and Human Health business. Our full-year results
demonstrate underlying strength as we were able to grow despite a challenging year with the
loss of exclusivity of several key products and other pressures.
The year's highlights include: ongoing and significant progress for KEYTRUDA, LYNPARZA and our
expanding oncology portfolio; advancement in vaccine, especially with continued uptake of
GARDASIL; and progress within our specialty medicines business, including the submission to the
FDA of doravirine for HIV, an advancement of our next-generation HIV pipeline.
Animal Health also continued its strong performance and remains a core growth driver for Merck.
We are entering 2018 with good momentum behind these pillars and anticipate that they will
drive solid top and bottom line growth for the company. We continue to invest significantly in
R&D, and at the same time, we're actively engaged in finding the best external science to further
augment our portfolio and pipeline through business development.
We believe that bringing forward innovation that meaningfully addresses unmet medical needs is
the key to Merck's long-term success, and we are actively building such a pipeline. In addition to
efforts behind our pipeline, including focused work to reshape our discovery capabilities, we
continue to evolve our operating model in line with our changing portfolio and the evolving health
care environment.
I'm excited for what lies ahead this year and in future years. We expect our pipeline to continue to
deliver medically important breakthroughs, and we remain dedicated to finding innovative ways
to demonstrate the value of our products and to increase patient access.
Finally, we are pleased that Congress and the administration enacted tax reform, which helps tous access to overseas cash.
I will now turn the call over to Rob to go through more details on tax reform, our fourth quarter
and full-year results, as well as our 2018 guidance. Rob?
`Robert M. Davis, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President-Global Services `
Thanks, Ken, and good morning, everyone. As Ken noted, we're pleased with the newly enacted
tax reform. The impact of the new legislation to Merck in the fourth quarter was a $2.6-billion
provisional charge. This reflects a onetime transition tax of approximately $5 billion on foreign
earnings deemed to be repatriated, partially offset by changes in deferred tax liabilities.
While tax reform does not fundamentally change our capital allocation priorities, it does improve
our flexibility and enhances our ability to deploy capital in support of our strategy to invent new
medicines that address key unmet medical needs, benefiting patients and driving sustainable
long-term shareholder value.
To that point, in addition to funding our growing investment in R&D as well as seeking value-
creating business development opportunities, we are also planning roughly $12 billion of capital
investments over the next five years, with approximately $8 billion in the United States, to add
capacity for our key growth drivers of oncology, vaccines and Animal Health as well as additional
investment to enable ongoing discovery efforts.
We also remain committed to our dividend which we increased for the seventh year in a row last
November. Finally, to the extent we don't deploy capital towards business development deals
over time; we look to return it to the shareholders.
Now, let's turn to the fourth quarter results. My remarks will mainly focus on our non-GAAP
financials. In the fourth quarter, we grew the top line on both a nominal and ex-exchange basis
driven by strength in KEYTRUDA, BRIDION and Animal Health. This more than offset the
headwinds from LOEs for the products like ZETIA, VYTORIN and REMICADE, competitive
pressure for ZOSTAVAX and the negative sales impact of approximately $125 million due to the
June cyber incident.
Total company revenue of $10.4 billion grew 3% in the quarter, including a 1-percentage-point
benefit from foreign exchange. Our Human Health business grew 3%, excluding exchange. And
Adam will provide additional detail on that in just a moment. Our Animal Health business
delivered 8% growth, excluding exchange, driven by continued strength in our companion animal,
ruminants and poultry businesses.
Looking to the other parts of the P&L, non-GAAP gross margin was 74.6% in the quarter, roughly
flat year-over-year. Non-GAAP operating expenses of $4.6 billion were higher year-over-year,
reflecting increased R&D spending. The increase in R&D was driven by the timing of business
development transactions as well as higher clinical development spending.
The cost of goods sold and the operating expense lines also reflect approximately $145 million in
cost related to the June cyber incident. Our non-GAAP effective tax rate was 15.3% in the quarter,
roughly 8 percentage points' lower year-over-year, resulting in a full-year tax rate of 19.1%.
Increased income and lower tax jurisdictions, and certain onetime items, resulted in the lower full
year tax rate versus the last year.
Taken together, we earned $0.98 per share on a non-GAAP basis, an increase of 10% versus the
prior, or 6% excluding the positive impact of foreign exchange. While there was some benefitseveral items that hit the fourth quarter, including the impacts of cyber, natural disasters and the
timing of BD deals.
On a GAAP basis, EPS was a loss of $0.32, reflecting the provisional charge related to the
enactment of U.S. tax reform legislation I described earlier.
Now, let's turn to guidance and our outlook for 2018. We expect full-year 2018 revenues to be in
the range of $41.2 billion to $42.7 billion, mainly driven by strength in our growing pillars of
oncology, vaccines and Animal Health. This range assumes an approximately 1-percentage-point
positive impact from foreign exchange using mid-January rates.
Before going into the remaining guidance, I'll remind you that the gross margin guidance and
operating expense growth rates are relative to the restated 2017 amounts, which Teri mentioned
at the beginning of the call. We expect our non-GAAP 2018 gross margin to be slightly lower year-
over-year, driven primarily by product mix across the portfolio.
We expect our non-GAAP operating expenses to increase year-over-year at a low-to-mid single-
digit rate. This is primarily driven by an increase in R&D spending as we continue to make the
investments necessary to drive our many pipeline opportunities such as our oncology pipeline
including KEYTRUDA and LYNPARZA, as well as our vaccines and other specialty care programs.
Regarding tax, we anticipate the full-year non-GAAP tax rate to be in the range of 19% to 20%,
which reflects the favorable impact from tax reform of a few percentage points relative to what
our rate would have been absent reform. Despite the tax reform benefit, the 2018 rate will
generally be flat compared with 2017 due to onetime benefits in 2017, which I referenced earlier
that will not repeat in 2018.
Beyond 2018, we anticipate some additional favorability. We project average diluted shares
outstanding of approximately $2.7 billion for 2018, reflecting a decrease versus the prior year, as
we continue our share repurchase program. Taken together, we expect non-GAAP EPS to be in
the range of $4.08 to $4.23, which reflects an approximately 1-percentage-point negative impact
from foreign currency at mid-January rates.
In summary, 2017 reflected a year of strong execution resulting in top and bottom line full-year
growth and a leveraged P&L. We expect our momentum to continue into 2018 and anticipate
delivering meaningful revenue performance driven by our growth pillars of oncology, vaccines
and Animal Health.
We will remain disciplined in our capital allocation of resources, continuing to invest in our pipeline
to drive long-term growth, while balancing the need to fully fund near-term opportunities,
enabling us to both invest for the future, while delivering solid EPS growth in the year. We believe
this approach best positions us to maximize the long-term trajectory of our business and deliver
shareholder value.
With that, I'll turn the call over to Adam.
`Adam H. Schechter, Executive Vice President, President-Global Human Health `
Thank you, Rob, and good morning, everyone. This morning, I'll provide highlights in the
performance of Global Human Health for the fourth quarter and for the full year of 2017. My
comments will be on a constant-currency basis.
2017 was another year of solid execution for Global Human Health. Sales of $35.4 billion grew 1%
despite headwinds of more than $3 billion from LOEs. I'll now highlight a few of our key franchisesand launches, and I'll start with oncology. 2017 was an exceptional year for our oncology franchise.
Global sales of KEYTRUDA nearly tripled versus 2016, surpassing $3.8 billion.
In the U.S., KEYTRUDA continues to lead the new patient starts across nearly all indications. In
metastatic lung cancer, KEYTRUDA remains the leading treatment option across IO and non-IO
therapies. We continue to build on that leadership position with an increased adoption of the
combination with ALIMTA and carboplatin in non-squamous patients, and our recent
announcement of the success of KEYNOTE-189 trial should catalyze even broader use of this
combination.
KEYTRUDA is the only IO agent to show an overall survival benefit in the first-line setting as a
monotherapy in high expressers and as combination therapy with ALIMTA and platinum
chemotherapy in non-squamous patients in an all-comers population. Anecdotal feedback from
physicians has been very positive, and they are looking forward to seeing the full results from the
KEYNOTE-189 study.
KEYTRUDA is also leading across many tumor types outside of the U.S. In addition to our
leadership in melanoma, recent approval of additional tumor types in key markets, including lung
and bladder cancers, are expected to drive incremental growth. Altogether, we see an
extraordinary opportunity for KEYTRUDA in 2018 and beyond as we continue to establish
KEYTRUDA as a foundation in the treatment of cancer.
We also see great opportunity for LYNPARZA, which we're co-developing and co-commercializing
with our colleagues at AstraZeneca. LYNPARZA regained class leadership following approval of
the broader ovarian cancer label in the U.S., and we are currently launching the new metastatic
breast cancer indication. The Merck field force is now being deployed in the U.S., and additional
reps will be brought onboard in other top markets in 2018. We see significant long-term
opportunity for LYNPARZA.
Now, moving to diabetes. Global sales for JANUVIA franchise were nearly $6 billion for the full
year, with volume trends remaining strong in most markets around the world. As I've discussed
over the last several years, we face continued pricing pressure, particularly in the U.S., but we do
maintain market-leading access. We expect the growth opportunity in international markets will
be of increasing importance for JANUVIA franchise moving forward. Beyond JANUVIA, we're
looking to build on our leadership in diabetes with the launch of STEGLATRO and STEGLUJAN. We
believe JANUVIA will remain the first add-on to metformin in a majority of patients. But we are
also pleased to provide additional options to help patients lower their A1c as disease progresses.
As we look at our hospital specialty portfolio, products like ZEPATIER and BRIDION helped to
offset the headwind from several LOE products in 2017. ZEPATIER sales were nearly $1.7 billion for
the year. As anticipated, sales in the U.S. in the fourth quarter reflected a significant reduction in
share and volume due to the competitive landscape. We expect this dynamic to continue in 2018
with large markets outside of the U.S. also coming under pressure.
Conversely, we continue to see an important growth opportunity for BRIDION in many markets
around the world. Global sales grew nearly 50% in 2017 to just over $700 million. We expect
BRIDION to remain a key growth driver for the hospital and specialty portfolio given the growing
trend toward minimally invasive and robotic procedures, and customers' continued positive
experience with the product.
Now, moving to vaccines. Our broad vaccines portfolio of pediatric and adult vaccines continue to
perform well and reached $6.5 billion in 2017. Sales of ZOSTAVAX reached nearly $670 million forthe full year. In the fourth quarter, we saw significant decrease in our ZOSTAVAX business in the
U.S. as U.S. market reacted to new ACIP recommendations.
Sales of GARDASIL reached $2.3 billion in 2017, with increased global demand for gender-neutral
vaccination, driving growth for the product year-over-year. Underlying growth and increased
coverage rates remained strong in the U.S. Outside of the U.S., we saw growth in Europe with the
JV termination as well as increased demand in Asia Pacific and our GARDASIL launch in China. We
are excited about the growth opportunities for this important brand in both the U.S. and outside
of the U.S. in 2018.
In closing, we are well positioned for growth in 2018. We expect our diabetes franchise to be
relatively stable and growth from key products, including KEYTRUDA, LYNPARZA, GARDASIL and
BRIDION, to more than offset the headwinds that we face.
With that, I'll turn the call over to Roger.
`Roger M. Perlmutter, Executive Vice President and President-Merck Research Laboratories `
And thank you, Adam. My colleagues in Merck Research Laboratories made progress on
numerous fronts during the past three months. Beginning with product approvals, in the fourth
quarter, PREVYMIS, our cytomegalovirus terminase inhibitor, was approved by the FDA for the
prophylaxis of CMV infection and disease in adult recipients of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell
transplant. This is the first new drug registered for prophylaxis and treatment of cytomegalovirus
infection in over 15 years. And as described in our recent publication in the New England Journal
of Medicine, the use of PREVYMIS as opposed to placebo was associated with the reduction in
all-cause mortality in allogeneic hematopoietic transplant recipients.
Marketing authorization for PREVYMIS was also obtained in the European Union in January, and
the product is under review in other jurisdictions, including Japan. In December, we received FDA
approval for a family of products containing the SGLT2 inhibitor, ertugliflozin, which is presented
at monotherapy with the brand name STEGLATRO or in combination with metformin or with
JANUVIA for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.
The result of a worldwide collaboration with colleagues at Pfizer, these three products also
received the positive opinion from the CHMP last week and are under review elsewhere.
Progress in the approval segment was nowhere more evident than in oncology. First, together
with our colleagues at AstraZeneca, we have gained FDA approval for LYNPARZA, our poly ADP-
ribose polymerase inhibitor for the second-line treatment of HER2-negative metastatic breast
cancer in patients with a germline BRCA-mutation. This is the first approval for a PARP inhibitor in
the breast cancer setting, and is a component of our strategy to broaden the utility of this
important new drug.
LYNPARZA was also approved in Japan for the maintenance treatment of ovarian cancer,
irrespective of BRCA status in patients who have previously responded to platinum-based
chemotherapy. LYNPARZA is the first PARP inhibitor approved for any indication in Japan.
Beyond LYNPARZA, we also made meaningful strides in further characterizing the activity of
KEYTRUDA in a variety of malignancies. Based on data from our KEYNOTE-045 study, KEYTRUDA
was approved for the second-line treatment of urothelial malignancies in Japan. This approval
mirrors what we had previously achieved in the United States and in the European Union.
Moreover, the FDA accepted for review our filing of KEYTRUDA for the treatment of primaryovershadowed, however, by the results of two studies that together contribute importantly to our
understanding of the ability of KEYTRUDA to influence the treatment of malignant disease.
In early January, the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer or EORTC
announced results from our KEYNOTE-054 cooperative study showing that KEYTRUDA
treatment, as compared with placebo, significantly improved recurrence-free survival in patients
with previously resected high-risk melanoma. Based on an interim analysis, KEYTRUDA-treated
patients were 43% less likely to experience recurrence of their disease.
KEYNOTE-054 will continue under the direction of the EORTC, thus permitting analysis of other
key endpoints, and the results will be presented at an upcoming scientific meeting. More recently,
interim analysis of the KEYNOTE-189 study revealed that first-line treatment of nonsquamous
non-small cell lung cancer patients with the combination of KEYTRUDA plus standard therapy,
including either carboplatin or cisplatin, together with pemetrexed, resulted in statistically
significant improvement in both progression-free survival and overall survival.
This study extended the results obtained in our KEYNOTE-021 G study which, as you will
remember, resulted in accelerated approval for combination treatment of nonsquamous non-
small cell lung cancer in the United States in May of last year.
The KEYNOTE-189 study enrolled more than five times as many patients as the KEYNOTE-021 G
and was structured such that overall survival and progression-free survival were co-primary
endpoints. We are certainly encouraged by the strength of the KEYNOTE-189 data, details of
which will also be presented as soon as it's possible in an appropriate scientific venue.
Our clinical development and regulatory affairs teams are interacting with regulatory agencies
regarding a number of new filings. Earlier this month, we announced that the FDA has accepted
two New Drug Applications for doravirine, a second-generation non-nucleoside reverse
transcriptase inhibitor for use in combination with other antiviral agents and as a complete
regiment in combination with tenofovir and lamivudine for the treatment of HIV infection.
The agency has established a PDUFA date of October 23 for these reviews. We believe that
doravirine will prove to have broad utility, especially when used in combination with other new
agents that we have advanced for the treatment of HIV infection.
For example, we are studying combinations of doravirine with MK-8591, a novel and highly potent
antiretroviral agent.
Unsurprisingly, our broadest efforts in the development and regulatory space were directed
towards KEYTRUDA. A few weeks ago, we announced that KEYTRUDA was recognized with yet
another Breakthrough Therapy Designation, the 12th, for the treatment of advanced and/or
metastatic renal cell carcinoma in combination with LENVIMA, a multi-kinase inhibitor discovered
and marketed by Eisai. We are collaborating with Eisai in pursuing the development of this novel
combination.
Clearly, given the large amount of clinical development activity underway with KEYTRUDA,
including more than 700 registered clinical studies, of which more than 400 involve combinations,
our regulatory affairs groups are exceptionally busy.
We look forward to sharing more information about the clinical data supporting these regulatory
activities at the many scientific meetings that will occur in the late spring and early summer. And I
will provide details regarding the cadence of these presentations during our April earnings call.I will now turn the call back over to Teri.
`Teri Loxam, Vice President-Investor Relations `
Thanks, Roger. Darla, we'll move on to the Q&A portion of the call. And before we do that, I'd like
to remind everyone to please keep your questions to a maximum of one or two, so we can try to
get as many people on the call as possible. Darla, so we can get started, please.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. Your first question is from Tim Anderson with Sanford Bernstein.
Q - `Alexander Man, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Hi, this is Alex Man on for Tim Anderson. Thanks for taking my questions, as I have two. First, on
KEYNOTE-189, while I understand you're limited in what you can say now, how should we think
about the benefit of a combination occurring to more than just the high expressers subgroup?
And second, on ECHO-301 in melanoma with KEYTRUDA plus epacadostat, some investors have
felt this sounded a bit cautious in the past. What's your latest thinking around the degree of risk
for this trial as we head into the readout? Thanks.
A - `Roger M. Perlmutter, Executive Vice President and President-Merck Research Laboratories `
Right, Alex, well, first of all, with respect to KEYNOTE-189 just as you say, we're quite limited in
terms of what we will describe about this study. Our highest priority has to be to ensure that the
KEYNOTE-189 data are presented as soon as possible in the appropriate scientific forum. And of
course, we also would like to see the data published in an appropriate scientific venue as soon as
possible.
I would just reiterate that we are certainly encouraged by the strength of the KEYNOTE-189 data,
and we're optimistic about the way in which those data will be received by practitioners. Then,
the most important thing is that practitioners need to have that information in front of them in
such a way that it can guide their thinking about how best to treat cancer patients.
And with respect to ECHO-301, I would say that, again, the important question is do we see
meaningful benefit that inures to patients when the combination of epacadostat is used with
KEYTRUDA, we are – have been very pleased, and I've said before that epacadostat has an
adverse effect profile, such that it combines very well with KEYTRUDA, but the question is how
much benefit does one get from an efficacy standpoint. And until we actually see the data, we
just don't know.
A - `Teri Loxam, Vice President-Investor Relations `
Thanks. Darla, we'll move on to the next question.
Operator
It's from David Risinger with Morgan Stanley.
Q - `David R. Risinger, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `Thanks so much. So, I have two questions. First, could you please provide some color on the
KEYTRUDA sales mix in the U.S. by cancer type and also ex-U.S? And then, second, with respect
to ZOSTAVAX, I'm hoping you can provide a little bit more color on the competitive pressures
and the outlook for ZOSTAVAX sales. Thank you.
A - `Adam H. Schechter, Executive Vice President, President-Global Human Health `
Hi, David. Good morning. So, if you look at KEYTRUDA, first of all, we had very strong growth
year-over-year in the U.S. and outside the U.S. In the U.S., it grew more than 150%. And outside
the U.S., it grew more than 175%. If you try to break down the data by indication, it's not perfect,
as I've said before. But we believe more than 55% of the sales in the U.S. are in lung, about 15%
melanoma, about 5% in head and neck, another 5% in bladder, and then the rest in other.
International market, it's not easy to get the data to break it out. Right now, the majority of our
sales still remain in melanoma. However, we are seeing increases as we launched new indications
around the world. So, I don't have the precision that I have in the U.S. because the data is not
easily available. But melanoma is still a driver outside the U.S., and lung is becoming more and
more important and more and more of a growth driver.
With regards to ZOSTAVAX, as I said before, with the ACIP recommendations in the United
States, it makes it very difficult. I think that will continue to see pressure in the U.S. based upon
those guidelines. And then, I think as the product launches outside of the U.S., we'll see similar
pressure over time. And it's really because the recommendations are really recommending a
preferential vaccination of the competitor versus ZOSTAVAX. So, we expect very strong pressure
competitively as we move forward.
A - `Teri Loxam, Vice President-Investor Relations `
Thanks, Adam. Darla, we'll move on to the next question, please.
Operator
It's from the line of Andrew Baum with Citi.
Q - `Yan Li, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Hi. It's `Yan Li, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. on for Andrew Baum. Two questions, please. First question, going back to KEYNOTE-
024, can you inform us, out of the total patients originally enrolled onto KEYNOTE-024, what was
the percentage of them that did not manage to receive treatment because of the disease had
progressed or performance status wasn't, whilst obtaining the positive (29:55) results?
And second and broader question on your oncology strategy, given the recent FDA PMS gene
assay approvals as well as your tissue-agnostic MSI approval for KEYTRUDA, what is Merck's
strategy and appetite for materially expanding your small molecule precision medicine exposure
in oncology to take advantage of the new NGS paradigm? Thank you.
A - `Roger M. Perlmutter, Executive Vice President and President-Merck Research Laboratories `
Right. Okay. So, first of all, for KEYNOTE-024, the question, I guess, is how many individuals were
enrolled in the study, randomized study, who didn't receive treatment presumably because their
disease progressed very rapidly. I'm not sure what exactly you're getting at. I don't have the
numbers in front of me.Obviously, that the – well, first of all, of course, the study has been published and you can look at
the table that describes the patient allocation. But we can provide additional data and I guess
we'll do that offline. But I don't think there is any aspect of that, that affects the interpretation of
the KEYNOTE-024 study, which again was – demonstrated dramatic treatment effect in those
patients whose tumors expressed a high level of PD-L1.
And with regard to the strategy for small molecule exposure, and more generally, I guess, the
strategy for advancing therapies in oncology, I guess, I would say again that it's important to
recognize that KEYTRUDA is really the first broad spectrum, truly broad spectrum, antineoplastic
agent introduced into clinical practice. It is active across an enormously broad range of different
tumor types. We've studied KEYTRUDA as monotherapy in more than 30 different tumor types
and have responses in the vast majority of those tumor types. And in many, many important
tumor types, my view is that KEYTRUDA will become foundational.
What we demonstrated is that one can add other therapies to KEYTRUDA and achieve even
more beneficial responses. Pre-clinically, the addition of radiotherapy, traditional cytotoxic
chemotherapy, targeted chemotherapies as well as other immune-based therapies, including
therapies related to infection with oncolytic viruses as well as immunization, all of those things,
pre-clinically, work in combination with KEYTRUDA to improve the effect of PD-1 antagonism itself.
Clinically, we also have evidence for the activity of combinations. And I think what will happen in
the future is that those combinations will become more and more diverse. So, the choice of
combination will be very much focused on the individual patient, precision medicine, if you will,
based on a range of different issues that patient's performance status and age, a variety of
indices related to the tumor and increasing knowledge about responsiveness. That's a long, long
winded way of saying, of course, we're interested in having other agents that are active as a
target to the extent that they can add real benefit in a meaningful segment of the KEYTRUDA
response to cancer population.
A - `Teri Loxam, Vice President-Investor Relations `
Thanks, Roger. Darla, we'll move on to the next question, please.
Operator
It's from the line of Jason Gerberry with Bank of America.
Q - `Jason M. Gerberry, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thanks for taking my questions. Just two for me. Just first, Roger, KEYNOTE-042, can you talk just
a little bit about what drives your confidence for this – into this study readout, particularly given I
guess some mixed data with monotherapy and sub-50% expressers. And if that study is positive,
how are you guys viewing the commercial opportunity relative to the recent positive KEYNOTE-
189 outcome?
And then, my second question, the outlook for JANUVIA, I think, has long been for stable
performance into the out-years. Just kind of curious if that includes incremental contribution from
SGLT2 fixed-dose combinations or do you think that the JANUVIA/JANUMET franchise, without
that contribution, can be stable next year? Thanks.
A - `Roger M. Perlmutter, Executive Vice President and President-Merck Research Laboratories `
Right. I'll start and then Adam can take the commercial aspect. I mean, for KEYNOTE-042, which islevels of PD-L1. We do believe that PD-L1 expression is one measure of likely responsiveness to
KEYTRUDA, and we've demonstrated that in a whole variety of settings.
But it's not the case that the only individuals who respond to KEYTRUDA are those whose tumors
express PD-L1 in greater than 50% of cells. Indeed, we have had good results in lower-expressing
populations and in a whole variety of different settings. So, I'm optimistic about KEYNOTE-042 in
a broader population. But of course, we have to wait for the data. We do expect the data will be
available in the first of half this year. Study is under the supervision of Data Monitoring Committee
and is event-driven. So once those events are complete, then we'll have the answer.
And again, before I pass on to Adam, I would just say that my expectation is that when
oncologists think about how they're treating lung cancer patients, one of the issues will be, is this
individual somebody who will likely respond to monotherapy which has a more favorable profile
with respect to toxicity than does combination therapy. Where in an individual is younger, more
robust, a combination therapy might be more attractive. And in older population with many
comorbidities, combination therapy might be less attractive irrespective of what, for example,
PD-L1 expression said. So, that's just an example of the way in which I think therapy will be
personalized going forward. But Adam can give more details.
A - `Adam H. Schechter, Executive Vice President, President-Global Human Health `
Yeah, so with regard to commercial opportunity, in metastatic lung cancer, KEYTRUDA is the
leading option today across IO and non-IO therapies. So, we are in a very strong position. And we
believe that we will continue to be able to build upon that strong position moving forward. With
regard to the diabetes franchise, I would continue to look at it as a franchise. And we believe it
will be a relatively stable franchise. We believe that the growth outside the U.S. will be increasingly
important as we move forward.
So, for example, in China, we have NRDL approval for JANUVIA now. And we're launching that in
China as we speak. I believe that the SGLT2 and the SGLT2 combo with JANUVIA will continue to
be important. But altogether, we look at the diabetes franchise as a relatively stable portfolio
moving forward.
A - `Teri Loxam, Vice President-Investor Relations `
Thanks. Next question, please, Darla.
Operator
It's from the line of `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen and Company with Cowen.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen and Company `
Thank you. First, for Roger, on KEYNOTE-189, Merck, of course, announced that PFS and OS were
achieved. But small trials suggest KEYNOTE-021 G may have created an unrealistic expectation
for the outcome of larger chemo combo trials. So, do you think if the degree of PFS and OS
benefit in KEYNOTE-189 was substantially less than KEYNOTE-021 G, that it would still be well
received?
Second question is for either Ken or Roger, how would you characterize Merck's pipeline today
versus that in the past? Today, Merck has a pipeline that has the fewest disclosed products in big
cap pharma. Of course, that could just be a function of disclosure policy. But any thoughts on the
pipeline today would be appreciated. Thank you very much.A - `Roger M. Perlmutter, Executive Vice President and President-Merck Research Laboratories `
Right, Steve. Well, with respect to KEYNOTE-189, I can't really respond to a hypothetical about
what the market would do and what physicians might believe if the results were X, Y or Z. I have
to retreat back to what I said before, which is we're encouraged by the strength of the
KEYNOTE-189 data. And we're going to present those data just as soon as possible in an
appropriate scientific venue. And then, everyone will have a chance to look at them and decide
how they feel about those data. But we're certainly encouraged by the strength of them.
And the second question is how do we feel about the pipeline. Well, of course, in general terms,
you always want more things in your pipeline, that's always the way. On the other hand, I guess I
would point too that the pillars of growth that Rob mentioned, first of all, we have a lot of exciting
opportunities in and beyond oncology space, not just KEYTRUDA and LYNPARZA which are
important and selumetinib which also became part of our collaboration with AstraZeneca. But
beyond that, we have a series of molecules in the immuno-oncology and related space that look
really pretty exciting. We haven't had a chance to say much about those, but they include
molecules like our STING agonist for intra-tumoral injection, like our LAG3 antibody, like our TIGIT
antibody, a number of others that have gone forward, and a bunch of other interesting programs.
And of course, we acquired a small company with a Phase 1 asset in Rigontec, just late last year.
So, we have a lot of things going on there. And some of the data that we're seeing there are
really quite intriguing and quite promising. So, as we look in the oncology space, we see more
opportunities for growth.
We also have an opportunity for growth in the vaccine space. As Adam detailed, we have an
enormously strong vaccine profile, particularly as we continue to expand the activity in GARDASIL
space with GARDASIL 4 and GARDASIL 9. And so, we are – that program is – well, it is a
remarkable vaccine that offers the promise of dramatically reducing the incidence of
papillomavirus-related disease and particularly cervical cancer.
But beyond that, we are going into Phase 3 with an extended pneumococcal conjugate vaccine
with 15 serotypes. We have still other vaccines coming forward. We have extremely interesting
cytomegalovirus vaccine which looks quite exciting. We have a dengue vaccine which looks quite
interesting. And so, there's a lot of work going on in the vaccine program that's really very
exciting.
Broadly speaking, we have activity in many other areas, including neuroscience and cardiovascular
disease. And many of those look quite interesting as well. So, I would say that it's very difficult to
compare pipelines across companies and across time. But I am enthusiastic about the
opportunities that we have and believe that we can dramatically grow our business based on the
programs that we're currently pursuing.
A - `Teri Loxam, Vice President-Investor Relations `
Thanks, Roger. We'll move on to the next question.
Operator
It's from the line of `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Leerink Partners LLC from Leerink.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Leerink Partners LLC `Oh, great. Thanks for the question. So, just a quick one. Roger, can you just give us a general
sense of the other evidence that suggests that a combination of KEYTRUDA with chemotherapy,
particularly the ALIMTA chemotherapy, has benefits, not just on PFS, but perhaps on overall
survival? Is there any evidence to suggest that or is the definitive evidence going to be provided
in the presentation of the KEYNOTE-189 results?
As we've talked to physicians, they've really emphasized that that would be something that they
view as incrementally exciting about the KEYNOTE-189 data set because they've already started
to evolve their practice in that direction.
And then, the second question is really around the opportunity to see leverage in the Merck story
and in the portfolio. I was hoping Rob and Adam could really talk about the opportunities and the
points of leverage that you see in 2019 plus as we've now clearly defined the story for 2018.
Thanks.
A - `Roger M. Perlmutter, Executive Vice President and President-Merck Research Laboratories `
Okay. Seamus, with the – with respect to the KEYTRUDA plus chemotherapy story, I just would
say, first of all, that we agree that overall survival is the gold standard in terms of treatment of
malignant disease. And our goal is certainly where possible to demonstrate the improvements in
overall survival actually take place. As the KEYNOTE-021 G data, which is again quite a small data
set, just 60 patients per arm in a two-arm study, was surprising in that as big data emerged and
despite crossover, as we looked over time, overall survival became more and more meaningful.
The study was not powered for an overall survival result. But as we saw those data become
stronger and stronger, it led me to decide that we really wanted to change the statistical analysis
plan for the KEYNOTE-189 study to emphasize overall survivals and endpoints.
We did it just for that reason. And because of that, the KEYNOTE-189 study, which had over 600
patients enrolled in a 2:1 randomization, was powered for overall survival. And as we announced,
the overall survival result was positive. So, on its first interim analysis, it met both the PFS and an
overall survival endpoint. And we will be presenting those data. And I think that will be very
important to oncologists engaged in treating cancer patients.
A - `Robert M. Davis, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President-Global Services `
And then, with regard – as we've looked out, we're obviously not giving guidance beyond 2018
today. But as I broadly look into the future, I think we have some real pillars of strength. Oncology
is going to continue to be a real pillar of growth for us, new indications. Additional data with
KEYTRUDA, we believe LYNPARZA will continue to be a real growth opportunity for us. And
vaccines, in particular GARDASIL, we believe has a lot of growth potential moving forward. And
then, we have several products in the hospital and specialty areas that should provide us
continued growth such as BRIDION. So, as we look to the out-years, we still think we have some
pretty good pillars of growth.
A - `Adam H. Schechter, Executive Vice President, President-Global Human Health `
I would also that our Animal Health business which is a global business with great strong portfolio,
both in production and companion, also I think will provide us with strong growth outpacing the
industry comparisons they have.
A - `Robert M. Davis, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President-Global Services `And then, finally, I guess to carry it down from sales to how we think about earnings. Clearly, as
we've consistently said, we continue to have a goal of delivering a leveraged P&L over time. As
you see in 2018 and as I think we had guided previously, we are in a period of investment behind
the many opportunities we see in the pipeline that Roger has outlined.
We will continue to drive that investment going forward. But carrying down the growth in
revenues, the real tailwind that Adam and Ken laid out, those pillars of growth, down to the P&L,
we do actually expect long term we will return to a leveraged P&L over time as we go forward.
A - `Teri Loxam, Vice President-Investor Relations `
Thanks, Rob. We'll move on to next question, please.
Operator
It's from the line of `Chris Schott, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC with JPMorgan.
Q - `Chris Schott, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Great. Thanks very much for the questions. The first one here is, can you give a little bit more
color on your tax rate dynamics for 2018 and beyond? You're obviously clearly seeing a benefit,
but your rate is coming in what seems to be a couple hundred basis points above many of your
peers. So, help me understand a little bit the dynamics there and how much room is there for an
improvement relative to this 19% to 20% rate that you're talking about?
The second question I had was just latest on the EU filing for that broader first-line lung indication
based on KEYNOTE-189. Just latest thoughts on timing there and is there anything you can do to
accelerate that process at all? Thanks very much.
A - `Robert M. Davis, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President-Global Services `
Yeah. Chris, thanks for the question. So, with regards to the tax rate in 2018, it is slightly higher
than what we had in 2017. But I think it's important to point out that 2017 actually benefited from
some onetime tax items, primarily related to benefits related to foreign tax credits, and some
foreign tax credit plan that we were able to do that drove the rate down in 2017 by a few points.
So, in reality, probably a better run rate to look at is 2016, which was at around 22%.
So, if you look at that going forward, we actually see tax reform benefiting us by a few points.
We'll still though be in that range a little bit over 19%, and the guidance we gave , 18% to 19% for –
19% to 20% for 2018. And as we look at that, part of what's going on is we have a higher mix of
income in the United States relative to some of the other companies that does cause us to have
a little bit higher of a structural rate. That's actually been the case over time. That continues.
But as we look beyond 2018, we actually do think we will see the rate come down. If I was putting
something out there, I'd say probably another percentage point down from where we're going to
be in 2018 as we move forward in 2019 and beyond.
A - `Roger M. Perlmutter, Executive Vice President and President-Merck Research Laboratories `
And Chris, with respect to the regulatory strategy, we have had discussions with regulatory
agencies in light of the KEYNOTE-189 data, and we'll certainly be following their advice with
respect to filing strategies and how one can review this data. Obviously, we are eager to see this
data incorporated into practice as regulators seek that.A - `Teri Loxam, Vice President-Investor Relations `
Thanks, Roger. We'll move on the next question, please.
Operator
It's from the line of `Alex Arfaei, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States) with BMO Capital Markets.
Q - `Alex Arfaei, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States) `
Okay, great. Thank you very much for taking the questions. First of all, Roger, congratulations on
KEYNOTE-189. Your team's foresight to include overall survival suddenly appears to have paid off.
Will KEYNOTE-189 be able to provide insights by subgroup be it PD-L1 tumor mutation burden or
other factors to help physicians determine what type of patients are most likely to benefit from
the combo as opposed to monotherapy?
And then, Adam, how should we think about the growth opportunity of GARDASIL longer term?
You mentioned China, I think you folks keep emphasizing the global opportunity. Just help us
understand whether that's a near-term thing or if it's sustainable. And similarly, your HIV assets
don't get a lot of attention, just wondering if you could help us understand the commercial
opportunity there. Thank you very much.
A - `Roger M. Perlmutter, Executive Vice President and President-Merck Research Laboratories `
Right. With respect to the KEYNOTE-189 data, we are going to – we are expecting to present
these data in the appropriate scientific forums as soon as possible. And as I've said, we're
certainly encouraged by the strength of the data. This data, when they are presented, will include
a lot of different evaluations across a broad range of different stratification subgroup as one
would expect in those analysis. So, there'll be an opportunity for people to look at a broad range
of different determinants that may or may not have some effect. Obviously, I can't comment on
what those data might look like. We should have the opportunity to present them relatively soon.
A - `Adam H. Schechter, Executive Vice President, President-Global Human Health `
And with regard to first HPV, I think that's going to be an important contributor to our business
and growth aspects, not only in 2018, but beyond that. And we believe we can continue to drive
underlying demand for both GARDASIL and GARDASIL 9. We're seeing greater coverage of the
younger cohorts over time and in a more gender-neutral manner. We believe that about 50% to
70% of males and females in the U.S. have received at least the first dose, so there's room even
there for continued growth. And outside the U.S., we still believe there is significant opportunity. I
mentioned China, we're in the early stages of launch, but I think it could be a very significant
growth opportunity for us there over time. So, I think we have very strong growth prospects for
GARDASIL and GARDASIL 9 in the foreseeable future.
With regard to HIV franchise, we've been in the HIV field for many, many years. And if you look at
where we are right now, we're launching doravirine, and I think that is really a bridge to a large
degree. And when I say, launching, we're preparing for the launch of doravirine, it's under review.
But I look at that as a bridge to the future products that Roger has in the pipeline, which will
enable us, someday in the future, to be a leader again in the HIV field.
So, it's a place that we know well. It's a therapeutic category where I think there's still significant
medical unmet need. And I think there are ways in the future with longer-acting agents or agents
with potentially less side effects that could make a significant impact.A - `Teri Loxam, Vice President-Investor Relations `
Great. Thanks, Adam. We'll move on to the next question, we can get a few more in here.
Operator
It's from the line of `Umer Raffat, Analyst, Evercore ISI with Evercore ISI.
Q - `Umer Raffat, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Hi. Thanks so much for taking my question. Perhaps, first one for Ken. Ken, there's a meaningful
part of your business that's been hitting on all major clinical and commercial milestones,
KEYTRUDA driven obviously. Do you think that business trades at a material discount to its intrinsic
value? And if so, how do you envision unlocking that value?
And maybe one for Roger. Roger, one of your competitors on the European side is really
emphasizing that their emerging Phase 3 data in IO chemo will basically span each possible
chemo combination there is out there in a separate dedicated Phase 3. Do you think that impacts
your positioning in first-line lung, which is primarily centered around an ALIMTA-based IO chemo?
Thank you.
A - `Kenneth C. Frazier, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
So, let me just comment on the first question as it relates to the commercial execution and clinical
execution we've seen with respect to KEYTRUDA. So, first of all, I do think it is unprecedented to
see how quickly this company has moved forward in that whole area of oncology. We've seen
very strong growth that Adam talked about, 150% in the U.S., 175% or so outside the U.S. I believe
as more data emerges, people will be able to see this opportunity the way we see it internally.
And I think that they will see why we are so excited about that one particular opportunity.
And then, as has been said several times, KEYTRUDA, which we think, again, is a pipeline within a
product, is also accompanied by very strong additional assets, including LYNPARZA and a number
of other internal opportunities that we have. So, from our perspective, I think it's really important
for us to continue to execute on that. And as the world begins to see that more clearly, I think our
oncology franchise will be more well received.
It's also been said here also that things where we have a legacy or leadership, we have great
opportunities in front of us with GARDASIL. Roger talked about our pneumococcal vaccine
opportunity. We have the CMV, and the RSV and dengue behind that. We've talked about our
hospital and specialty business, HIV, BRIDION, neuroscience, et cetera. And again, I want to
underscore that our Animal Health business really is a global business leader in its segment.
So, I think – to try to get to your questions, I think as execution continues, I think the evidence will
emerge and I think people will see why we are so comfortable and excited about what we have
in our portfolio and our pipeline.
A - `Roger M. Perlmutter, Executive Vice President and President-Merck Research Laboratories `
And with regard to IO chemo combinations and sort of the breadth of such combinations, if I
could just elevate for a minute, I would say, we should pause and reflect that what a remarkable
time this is that the combination of KEYTRUDA with chemotherapy, based on the KEYNOTE-021 G
data, and then, of course, our recent announcement with respect to KEYNOTE-189, is providing
meaningful results in patients with metastatic lung cancer who previously had really very limitedAnd I guess I would make three points. I mean, the first point is that, as we discussed with
KEYNOTE-021 G, and KEYNOTE-189 only makes that stronger, the combination with
chemotherapy that we demonstrated with ALIMTA and platinum therapy, it kind of sets a floor on
what one should expect in terms of treatment of lung cancer. You need to do at least that well,
and that's very important going forward in the future. So, that's the first thing.
The second thing I would say is that there will be a lot of studies of different chemotherapeutic
agents in a variety of different settings. I would point out, for example, that this is all with
reference to the non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer population. But squamous carcinoma
of the lung is an important contributor to morbidity and mortality and, in certain regions, a quite
large contributor.
And we do have the KEYNOTE-407 study, which will be coming out sometime in the first half of
this year and also promises to provide important information about how to treat such individuals
with different chemotherapy regimens, obviously, but with KEYTRUDA as a background. So, I think
that's an important thing to recognize.
And the third thing to recognize is that, again, with time, I think we will see that a broadening of
the set of options that exist for cancer patients such that one will select appropriate therapy
based on the individual characteristics of patients, for example, with lung cancer. In that selection,
I believe that KEYTRUDA will still prove to be foundational across a very broad range of treatment
options.
A - `Teri Loxam, Vice President-Investor Relations `
All right. Move on to the next one, please.
Operator
It's from the line of `Jami Rubin, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC with Goldman Sachs.
Q - `Jami Rubin, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Thank you. Ken, I have a question for you. I would say that you've kind of gone out of your way
the last couple of years in downplaying your interest in a transformational deal. And I'm just
wondering if you're rethinking that now that we are starting to see talk again of industry
consolidation, Pfizer said so on their earnings call.
And it's just interesting, when you take a step back, Merck's shares have been flat the last two
years despite phenomenal good news for KEYTRUDA. And it seems that the bolt-on strategy
hasn't really changed the story. I'm just wondering what your reluctance is to be more aggressive
with the strategic direction of the company. Thanks very much.
A - `Kenneth C. Frazier, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Well, Jami, thanks for the question. I would say, first of all, as I've stressed before, we are actively
engaged in looking for the best opportunities to enhance our pipeline. And I've said before that
we look at deals with all types of structures, including acquisitions and partnerships, collaborations
and licensing. We also don't restrict ourselves as we do our scan across things based on size and
structure and stage of development. We're looking for the best opportunity to create the
strongest longer-term portfolio for Merck.
So, I would just say that we continue to look for the best opportunities that we can find. I have
expressed in the past my reluctance to do what you call large transformational deal. I think if youlook at the history of the so-called large transformational deal, they haven't necessarily provided
the ability of those companies when they finish their synergies to drive their pipelines going
forward. So, I'm very much focused on what will allow this company to be strong, innovative, 5
years, 10 years from now. And if that kind of deal would help us do that, then I would look at it
differently.
A - `Teri Loxam, Vice President-Investor Relations `
Okay. We're going to try to get one more question in here, I know we're running out of time.
Operator
And your final question comes from Vamil Divan with Credit Suisse.
Q - `Vamil K. Divan, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
Hi. Great. Thanks for sticking me in here. So, two questions, if I could. So, one on the KEYTRUDA-
LYNPARZA. Just wondering if you can highlight what's the next data points are that we'll see for
that combination. And then, given the importance that we feel is just around your single company
owning the different components of the combination, can you discuss how pricing negotiations
may play out over time given the products of separate companies? Is there a way for you guys to
work together? Or the prices could be priced the way they are, would you had more flexibility, for
example, if you acquired a PARP outright?
And my second question following up, really one on ECHO-301, I feel like many investors are
expecting that data to be definitive one way or the other, either very good, very bad data. I'm just
curious, Roger, if that's how you're looking at this trial. It is the first Phase 3 or we're still in
obviously the very early days of immuno-oncology. I'm thinking you might provide good
information but be more informative and definitive. And wondering if you agree with that or if you
think the results really will be definitive and give us a clearer sense of what the combination
provides over PD-1 monotherapy?
A - `Teri Loxam, Vice President-Investor Relations `
All right. Roger, maybe you can start with the KEYTRUDA and LYNPARZA, the next data points that
we're looking at coming up.
A - `Roger M. Perlmutter, Executive Vice President and President-Merck Research Laboratories `
Right. I mean, so with respect to KEYTRUDA, Vamil, we've talked about some of those data
points, namely the KEYNOTE-042 data, which looks at responses in the first-line setting to
KEYTRUDA monotherapy in lung cancer, nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer in a broader
range of patients defined by PD-L1 expressed in the tumor. And the KEYNOTE-407 data, which
are in squamous non-small cell lung cancer, there's also the KEYNOTE-048 studies in the first-line
head and neck cancer settings, which should be quite interesting. And so, there's a lot of data
that will be coming through.
Again, as I make the point, we have over 700 studies, over 400 combinations. There's just an
enormous amount of data coming forward. And with LYNPARZA, there's a quite detailed plan for
expanding the LYNPARZA indication, not only in the sort of traditional hormonally responsive
tumors, that is to say in ovarian and breast cancer settings, but also in broader settings including
in pancreatic cancer. All of those things are really quite interesting, and it's quite a robust
program. So, a lot going on in LYNPARZA as well. Adam.A - `Adam H. Schechter, Executive Vice President, President-Global Human Health `
And if you look at combination pricing, I mean, in general it's just too premature to discuss the
pricing of combos until we see the data, the incremental improvements of combinations, how
they compare with monotherapies. And I believe the market will reward innovation, particularly
innovation at least to improve outcomes over the current monotherapies.
But we have to see the data to really get a sense of what that would look like. And I don't believe
you necessarily will have to own everything, and I think that the partnerships will be successful, but
we need to see data.
A - `Teri Loxam, Vice President-Investor Relations `
Great. Thanks, Adam. We're out of time. So, I'm just going to turn it back over to Ken for closing.
A - `Kenneth C. Frazier, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
So, again, thank you all for participating in today's call. I just want to reiterate that we're closing
out 2017 with very strong operating momentum which is a great foundation for 2018 and beyond.
Thank you. Have a good day. And we look forward to speaking to you in the future.
Operator
This concludes the Merck's fourth quarter 2017 sales and earnings call. You may now disconnect.