Q4 2018 Earnings Call

Operator
Good morning. My name is Darla, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I
would like to welcome everyone to Merck's Fourth Quarter 2018 Sales and Earnings Conference
Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers'
remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you. I would now like to turn the call over to `Teri Loxam, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations & Global Communications, SVP, Investor Relations and Global
Communications. Please go ahead.
`Teri Loxam, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations & Global Communications `
Thank you, Darla, and good morning. Welcome to Merck's fourth quarter and full year 2018
conference call. Today, I'm joined by Ken Frazier, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Rob
Davis, our Chief Financial Officer; and Dr. Roger Perlmutter, President of Merck Research Labs
who will each have prepared remarks. In addition, I am joined by Mike Nally, our new Chief
Marketing Officer; and Frank Clyburn, our new Chief Commercial Officer who will both be
available for the Q&A portion of the call.
Before I turn the call over to Ken, I'd like to point out a few items. You'll see that we have items in
our GAAP results such as acquisition-related charges, restructuring costs, and certain other items.
You should note that we have excluded these from our non-GAAP results and provide a
reconciliation of these in our press release. We have also provided a table in our press release to
help you understand the sales in the quarter for the business units and products.
I would like to remind you that some of the statements that we make during today's call may beU.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are made based on the
current beliefs of Merck's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. If our
underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or uncertainties materialize, actual results may differ
materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Our SEC filings, including Item
1A in the 2017 10-K, identify certain risk factors and cautionary statements that could cause the
company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any of our forward-looking
statements made this morning. Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-
looking statements. You can see our SEC filing as well as today's earnings release on merck.com.
Finally, similar to last quarter we have posted a presentation to the Investor section of merck.com
which highlights some of our financials from the quarter and the year. With that, I'd like to turn the
call over to Ken.
`Kenneth C. Frazier, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Teri. Good morning and thank you all for joining the call. In 2018, Merck distinguished
itself through its strong performance across its businesses. Perhaps most significantly, our full
year results demonstrate that our strategy to be the premier research-intensive
biopharmaceutical company is working. The investments we've made in R&D over the past
several years and our commercial execution have culminated in the highest top and bottom line
growth the company has seen in years, and we expect our momentum to carry over into 2019.
At its core, Merck is a science-driven organization motivated by a quest to improve human and
animal health. We've spent the last several years reinvigorating our labs; investing in three new
research centers in South San Francisco; Cambridge, Massachusetts; and London; and refocusing
our efforts on creating truly differentiated medicines that help solve big health problems for now
and the future. This unwavering commitment to science and innovation enables us to retain the
best talent in the industry to drive our strategic priorities and to continuously enhance our pipeline
of medically significant treatments and vaccines.
Our clinical and commercial execution in the IO space has further separated KEYTRUDA from its
competition, and our leadership in oncology is further bolstered by the growth prospects for
Lynparza and Lenvima. GARDASIL is not only driving meaningful growth for the company after a
decade on the market but is also instilling optimism around the world that this vaccine could help
prevent and maybe eliminate certain HPV-related cancers. We are confident in our broad
portfolio of market-leading products and our diversified high-potential pipeline which includes
significant innovations in oncology, vaccines, and other specialty and hospital care along with a
robust industry-leading Animal Health business. In fact, Merck has one of the broadest and most
promising pipelines we've had over the past two decades. In summary, we're excited by our
progress, our pipeline, and our future. We are energized by the work that we do and, most
importantly, by our ability to help patients around the world while also creating sustainable long-
term growth and strong shareholder returns.
Before I turn the call over to Rob, I'm pleased to announce that we will be hosting an investor
event on June 20 during which we will provide an update on our strategic progress and outline
how Merck will continue to deliver innovative science and create value for all of our stakeholders.
We'll be back to you with the details on location and other logistics, but we ask that you save the
date. Now, I'd like to turn it over to Rob for more color on our financial and operational
performance. Rob?
`Robert M. Davis, Executive Vice President-Global Services & Chief Financial Officer `Thanks, Ken, and good morning everyone. Please note that my comments today will be on a non-
GAAP basis. Our results in 2018 reflect strong execution across our key growth pillars, focused
investment in our pipeline, and disciplined expense management. We achieved meaningful top
and bottom line growth and we also executed important business development transactions,
initiated and expanded capital expenditure programs to increase our manufacturing capacity, and
returned additional value to shareholders through increased dividends and share repurchases.
We believe our company is well-positioned to achieve future growth. And as our 2019 guidance
shows, we expect the recent momentum in our business to continue as we execute on our
growth pillars and invest in R&D while remaining disciplined in our allocation of resources.
Turning to our fourth quarter results, total company revenues were $11 billion, an increase of 8%
year-over-year excluding exchange with strong growth in both our Human Health and Animal
Health businesses. Human Health revenues increased 8% ex exchange to $9.8 billion led by key
products in our oncology, vaccines, and hospital and specialty businesses. In oncology,
KEYTRUDA's sales exceeded $2.1 billion this quarter, extending the unprecedented launch of this
foundational therapy and solidifying Merck as the clear market leader in renal oncology with
continued strong future growth prospects. Global growth was primarily driven by higher use in
first-line non-small cell lung cancer, and utilization remains strong across the breadth of our
indications including melanoma, head and neck, bladder, and MSI-high cancers. We're seeing
strong uptake in squamous non-small cell lung cancer in the U.S. where a good portion of newly
diagnosed patients are now receiving either KEYTRUDA as monotherapy or in combination with
chemotherapy following the approval of KEYNOTE-407 in October. In total, in the U.S. we now
have 15 approved indications and are approved in 10 different tumor types overall plus a pan
tumor approval in MSI-high patients.
In ex U.S. markets, first-line lung is the key driver of growth mostly due to further uptake of our
monotherapy indication and PD-L1 high expressers following reimbursement approvals around
the world. In Europe, we're off to a great start launching the chemo combo in non-squamous
patients following approval of KEYNOTE-189 last September. We are already seeing adoption in
select markets such as Germany where reimbursement begins upon approval and we will be
working through the reimbursement process in other major European markets throughout this
year. Growth in Japan remains robust and we're very pleased with the recent approval of five
new indications across lung, adjuvant melanoma, and MSI-high cancers. Finally, in September we
launched KEYTRUDA in metastatic melanoma in China which will be an important market for the
brand going forward as we pursue additional indications. Overall, we remain very confident in the
long-term growth potential for KEYTRUDA based on increased utilization and currently approved
indications and our expectation of additional approvals worldwide.
We also remain very encouraged by the progress and potential of both Lynparza and Lenvima in
partnership with AstraZeneca and Eisai respectively. Lynparza growth this quarter was driven by
continued uptake in ovarian and breast cancers as well as launches in new markets such as Japan
and China. In the United States, across all tumors Lynparza leads the PARP inhibitor class with over
50% total patient share. We're excited by the earlier than expected U.S. approval of SOLO-1 and
look forward to bringing this treatment to more women with ovarian cancer. Growth for Lenvima
reflected strong performance in hepatocellular cancer following recent launches in the U.S.,
Europe, and more recently China. Performance in Japan remains strong with Lenvima being used
in a vast majority of hepatocellular patients.
Turning to vaccines, we have a significant and innovative portfolio. Our vaccines business
reflected strong worldwide demand for GARDASIL which achieved sales of over $800 million this
quarter. Health systems worldwide continue to support increased immunization with GARDASILdriven by strong uptake from our recent launch in China as well as increased demand in Europe
given the move towards more gender-neutral vaccination programs. Sales of GARDASIL also
grew in the U.S., mostly reflecting the difference in quarterly phasing of public sector purchases
last year.
Our hospital and specialty business was led by BRIDION where growth in the U.S. reflects
continued strong demand. BRIDION sales approached $1 billion for the year and we remain
confident in the potential for additional future growth.
Looking now at our Animal Health business, we again saw strong growth this quarter with
revenues increasing 11% to $1 billion excluding exchange. Growth was driven by our broad
portfolio of inline and newly launched products with companion animal products growing 16% and
livestock sales growing 8%, both excluding exchange. Companion animal growth was driven by
sales of vaccines, while livestock benefited from increased sales of swine and poultry products.
Animal Health segment profits were $387 million in the fourth quarter, an increase of 16%
excluding exchange compared to the prior year. Our Animal Health business continues to
perform well and we view it as a key pillar of Merck's future growth. We continue to invest in new
product development and launches and recently announced the acquisition of Antelliq which will
establish Merck as a leader in animal identification and monitoring, one of the fastest-growing
parts of the animal health industry.
Turning to the rest of our P&L, gross margin was 75% in the quarter. The increase of 70 basis
points versus the fourth quarter of 2017 was largely due to the favorable impacts of product mix
this year and manufacturing variances related to the cyberattack that negatively impacted last
year. This increase was partially offset by other headwinds such as lower prices and catch-up
amortization of sales milestones, primarily related to the earlier than expected approval of
SOLO-1.
Operating expenses of $4.8 billion increased 1% year-over-year, including a favorable 1
percentage point impact from foreign exchange. Investments in our oncology and vaccines clinical
development portfolios as well as our discovery efforts drove the increase in R&D, while SG&A
remained relatively flat. Our tax rate of 22.5% for the quarter was 720 basis points higher year-
over-year, reflecting a true-up of our full year tax rate due to our mix of earnings. Taken together,
we delivered earnings of $1.04 per share, an increase of 11% excluding exchange.
Now, let's turn to our outlook for 2019. We remain confident in both our near and long-term
prospects for revenue growth notwithstanding expected headwinds from price, foreign
exchange, and pressures on our mature and LOE products. For 2019, we expect full year revenue
of $43.2 billion to $44.7 billion, which represents 2% to 6% growth driven by strength in our key
growth pillars across oncology, vaccines, hospital and specialty as well as Animal Health. This
range assumes an approximately 1 percentage point negative impact from foreign exchange
using mid-January rates.
We expect our gross margin to be roughly flat year-over-year. As we previously communicated,
we believe tailwinds, including improved product mix, will generally be offset by headwinds
including lower prices, royalty payments, fluctuations in FX, and the continued amortization and
collaboration milestones.
We expect our operating expenses to increase year-over-year at a low to mid-single-digit rate
with continued disciplined management of SG&A allowing for a meaningful further investment in
R&D to capitalize on our pipeline opportunities. We expect our tax rate to be between 18.5% and
19.5% for the full year. We project average diluted shares outstanding to be approximately 2.58billion for 2019. Taken together, we expect EPS to be between $4.57 and $4.72 including an
approximately 1 percentage point positive impact from foreign exchange at mid-January rates.
This would represent approximately 5% to 9% bottom line growth.
Before concluding, it's worth mentioning that our 2019 EPS guidance assumes that our other
income and expense line will be roughly zero in 2019. Due to an accounting standard
implemented in 2018, we now recognize unrealized gains and losses related to our investments
in equity securities into other income and expense.
Based on current market conditions for our investment portfolio, we have assumed a negative
impact from our equity investments in OIE in our guidance. We also expect higher net interest
expense given our cash and debt balances and given current interest rates. Market movements
clearly create additional volatility as we move through the year, and we will continue to give you
updates as we move forward.
In summary, we delivered strong performance in 2018. While 2019 continues to be another
important investment year for R&D, we expect the operational momentum across our growth
pillars combined with disciplined resource allocation to deliver another year of meaningful top
and bottom line growth as well as operating leverage. Longer-term, we remain confident in our
ability to drive strong sales growth and meaningful operating margin expansion. Our dedication
to innovation and continued execution allow us to sustainably deliver for the patients we serve
and, in turn, creates significant shareholder value.
With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Roger.
`Roger M. Perlmutter, Executive Vice President & President-Merck Research Laboratories `
Thanks, Rob. As outlined in our press release, the fourth quarter was an especially productive
period for Merck Research Laboratories, marking the climax of what was an extremely busy year.
Beginning first with KEYTRUDA, during the fourth quarter we obtained three new indications in
the United States, first for the first-line treatment for patients with metastatic squamous non-
small cell lung cancer in combination with carboplatin and either paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel based
upon the results of the KEYNOTE-407 trial; second, for the second-line treatment of
hepatocellular carcinoma in patients who have previously been treated with sorafenib; and third,
for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients with recurrent locally advanced or metastatic
Merkel cell carcinoma, a rare skin cancer.
Separately, and based on the results of our KEYNOTE-054 study, which was conducted with the
European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer, the European Commission
approved KEYTRUDA for the adjuvant treatment of stage III melanoma with lymph node
involvement in patients who have undergone successful tumor resection. Meanwhile in Japan, we
obtained five new KEYTRUDA approvals at the end of December, including the first approval
based on our KEYNOTE-042 trial for KEYTRUDA monotherapy in patients with non-small cell lung
cancer whose tumors contain greater than or equal to 1% of malignant cells expressing the PD-L1
biomarker. Data from KEYNOTE-042 are also under review in the EU and in the United States
where submission of additional data resulted in an extension of the PDUFA date by three months
to April 11 of this year.
Our other cancer programs also advanced meaningfully in the fourth quarter. In collaboration with
our colleagues at AstraZeneca, we gained FDA approval for Lynparza as maintenance treatment
for patients with advanced ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer who experienced
complete or partial response to first-line platinum-based therapy and whose tumors containThis approval is based on data presented last fall at the European Society for Medical Oncology
meetings from the SOLO-1 trial.
We continue to see very positive results across our oncology portfolio including the success of
our KEYNOTE-181 trial testing KEYTRUDA monotherapy in the second-line treatment of advanced
or metastatic esophageal or gastroesophageal junction carcinoma with a 31% reduction in the risk
of death as compared to traditional chemotherapy in patients whose tumors express the PD-L1
biomarker with a combined proportion score of greater than or equal to 10. This is the first
demonstration of an improvement in the overall survival in esophageal gastric malignancy through
immunotherapy. Data from the study were presented at the ASCO GI meeting in January and has
been submitted for regulatory review.
During the fourth quarter, we also announced the results of our KEYNOTE-426 trial combining
KEYTRUDA with Pfizer's axitinib in the first-line treatment of renal cell cancer as compared with
sorafenib treatment. Data from this study in which improvements in overall survival, progression-
free survival, and overall response rate were demonstrated have also been submitted for
regulatory review.
Progress has been made in other disease categories as well. For example, the FDA granted
priority review with a PDUFA date of July 16 for our novel anti-microbial agent MK-7655A which
combines a new chemical entity, relebactam, with imipenem, thus blocking the activity of the
bacterially expressed β-lactamase that would otherwise inactivate imipenem. This represents an
important advance in the struggle to control antibiotic resistance. We're also active on the
business development front joining with colleagues at NGM Biopharmaceuticals to advance MK-
3655, a highly selective Phase 2 monoclonal antibody directed against the FGF receptor 1c β-
Klotho receptor complex for the potential treatment of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis.
Our vaccine programs also progressed during the fourth quarter. At the end of the quarter, for
example, we announced a collaboration with Instituto Butantan on the development of vaccines
to protect against dengue virus infection. Instituto Butantan is currently conducting a Phase 3
study in Brazil with their vaccine candidate while our own related dengue virus vaccine showed
promise in an earlier Phase 1 study. Finally, we commenced a rolling BLA submission for V920, our
investigational vaccine designed to protect against infection with the Zaire strain of Ebola virus.
We continue to provide tens of thousands of doses of this vaccine to the World Health
Organization to assist in the battle to contain an Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of the
Congo. We hope that through the important work of governmental and non-governmental
agencies and in part as a result of our V920 vaccine that it will be possible to bring this very
serious Ebola outbreak under control in the near future.
Now, my colleagues and I will take your questions.
`Teri Loxam, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations & Global Communications `
Thanks, Roger. Darla, we will get started on questions. I just wanted to remind everyone to try
and keep their questions to a maximum of one to two so we can get as many people on the call
as possible. So with that, we'll turn it over to questions.
Q&A
Operator
Your first question is from `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities LLC with Guggenheim.Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities LLC `
Thanks very much for the question. So my first question is for Ken and my second is for Frank and
Roger. Ken, can you just help us understand the core areas of focus for potential M&A or
business development to bolster the Merck pipeline, and maybe if you could just kind of give us a
general sense of areas of interest and perhaps even the range? Obviously, lots of questions
around the current mega cap M&A that's occurred in recent days. And then for Frank and Roger,
can you just maybe each of you kind of characterize the key opportunities near and longer-term
to sustain or perhaps even accelerate the KEYTRUDA opportunity? We're seeing amazing growth
in that franchise but, again, we're just trying to get a sense of the key new opportunities, whether
it be kidney cancer as a core opportunity or perhaps somewhat longer-term in the adjuvant
setting. Thanks so much.
A - `Kenneth C. Frazier, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Seamus. Let me start by saying, again, that business development remains an important
priority for us. First and foremost, we look for those scientific innovations that we believe will
enhance our pipeline because we believe that's what's important ultimately to drive long-term
growth and value for shareholders. In that regard, we don't try to pre-determine what therapeutic
areas are best. We want to find the best science and match it up to the best opportunities to
help people, and that's how we go about it. And I'll remind you that we were very active last year
in BD. We did about 60 transactions spanning licensing and technology deals, clinical
collaborations. We did the collaboration with Eisai, we did the acquisition of Viralytics which
expands our early immuno-oncology pipeline, we did the Antelliq acquisition. So again, I think
what we want to do given our strong balance sheet is to actively look across the entire spectrum
of assets across therapeutic areas to create the strongest portfolio. I'll close by saying we
continue as we've said for years to want to focus on the kinds of deals that we can add with
minimum disruption to our ongoing scientific efforts, so we have not really been focusing primarily
on the large mega mergers that you referred to.
A - `Teri Loxam, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations & Global Communications `
And Roger, why don't you start on the second question around KEYTRUDA key opportunities and
we can turn it over to Frank for the commercial portion?
A - `Roger M. Perlmutter, Executive Vice President & President-Merck Research Laboratories `
Right. Seamus, thanks for the question. First of all, I think it's important from a context point of
view, and you know this, that we're still at an early point in the development of KEYTRUDA. So
keep in mind that it's just a little over four years since the first indication was obtained in the
United States in 2014, and in that sense the indications are still rolling out. KEYTRUDA as I've said
and as you know is the first truly broad-spectrum antineoplastic agent introduced into clinical
practice with 15 indications and more coming, and many of those indications have not yet been
broadened around the world, and Frank will have a chance to talk about that. So there's a great
deal of opportunity to do good in helping patients around the world.
But beyond that, we've continued to work on a strategy in which we first demonstrate activity with
monotherapy in different tumor types. And the monotherapy studies are essentially complete –
we have a few more studies coming through – but then move forward in combination studies
while simultaneously advancing from salvage therapy, third-line, second-line to first-line, adjuvant,
neoadjuvant, and all of those studies are going on. And we are expanding into new areas and, in
addition, in combination with other agents, both those that have already been introduced intopractice, into renal cell carcinoma, and in addition our own pipeline. So there's just a huge set of
opportunities.
Looking forward, I think, as I mentioned, the data that we presented in esophageal gastric cancer
in January at ASCO GI and the renal cell data which will be presented in mid-February from the
KEYNOTE-426 study are special highlights, but there are going to be a lot of presentations
coming forward. There's a lot of new data coming up and we'll have a chance to talk about some
of that, for example, in advance at ASCO. It's early days but a lot of expansion opportunities. And
Frank, I think you can talk about that.
A - `Frank K. Clyburn, Executive Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer `
Seamus, good morning. And to echo Roger's point, we have actually a very early stage launch
going on and I just wanted to reiterate especially outside the U.S. for lung cancer. We're right now
launching KEYNOTE-189 and we're just in the early stages of that launch. So if you look at our ex-
U.S. growth, in fact this quarter ex-U.S. growth was over 86% and that just shows the early
progress that we're making not only with our monotherapy but early on with our combination in
lung. In addition, we have a number of other opportunities. You heard us announce the approvals
in Japan. We're very excited about the opportunity that we have in China with our second-line
melanoma indication, and we have a broad program that we are building in China. In addition to
that, we have significant opportunities as you've heard from Roger with regards to our renal cell
carcinoma data that we're looking forward to presenting, KEYNOTE-426, at ASCO GU. We're also
excited about triple-negative breast cancer. We presented our data now for KEYNOTE-048 for
head and neck cancer with first-line chemo combination, gastric cancer and others. So we're very
excited about our current indications and expanding those around the world as well as the
significant amount of data readouts that are going to be coming in the future that we think will
provide very significant growth not only this year but in the long run.
A - `Teri Loxam, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations & Global Communications `
Great. Thanks for the questions, Seamus. Darla, we'll move on to the next one, please.
Operator
It's from the line of `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC with Cowen.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Thank you. A couple questions. Ken, I was interested in your comment that Merck has one of the
most broad pipelines in the past two decades, and this is quite a statement given Merck's rich
research history. What are we missing externally that Merck sees internally, and will June 20 be
the opportunity for us to learn a lot more about the pipeline? And secondly, Merck's
pneumococcal vaccine I believe received breakthrough designation in children but not adults. Is
this an issue of timing or did FDA deliberately not grant the 15-valent product breakthrough in
adults? Thank you.
A - `Kenneth C. Frazier, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
So thank you for your question, Steve. I continue to believe that Merck's longer-term revenue
growth prospects are underappreciated in large part because people don't see the pipeline the
way we do, so let me try to answer your question. So we see tremendous future growth not only
in KEYTRUDA, Lynparza, and Lenvima but we have behind it a formidable internal pipeline of
assets in oncology – over 20 unique mechanisms. In the vaccine world, we think the GARDASILopportunity is really significant going forward, but behind that are opportunities in next-
generation pneumococcal, RSV, CMV, dengue, and other areas of lung that we look forward to.
As we also look beyond that, we just announced positive Phase 3 data for ZERBAXA, our
antibiotic for hospital-acquired ventilator-acquired pneumonia which we believe to be very a
sizable opportunity to go with our leading portfolio of hospital products including BRIDION. The
Afferent compound which we acquired a couple years ago is now being studied in a Phase 3 in
chronic cough (30:09) Bio collaboration is just another example of that, not to mention great
novel assets in HIV and neuroscience. So to answer your question, I actually look forward to the
June opportunity for us to talk about what it is that we see in our pipeline. I will say that we are
genuinely excited. We see the opportunities for us to invest across a broad area. And again, we
look forward to speaking to you in more detail on June 20.
A - `Roger M. Perlmutter, Executive Vice President & President-Merck Research Laboratories `
Right. This is Roger. With respect to the breakthrough destination, yes, we did receive
breakthrough designation in pediatrics for the V114 pneumococcal conjugate vaccine, and the
reason was because of the very meaningful clinical data that we obtained demonstrating the
balanced response across all 15 serotypes represented in that vaccine. We have very strong data
in the adult segment as well, and it's really a matter of timing with respect to how we interact with
the agency. Just to remind you, breakthrough designation provides a mechanism whereby you
can have more frequent consultation interaction with the agency on late stage trials, and keep in
mind that V114 is already in eight Phase 3 studies that will be reading out this year or next year. So
there's already a very substantial head of steam on this program.
A - `Teri Loxam, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations & Global Communications `
Great. Thank you. We'll move on to the next question please, Darla.
Operator
It's from Andrew Baum with Citi.
Q - `Andrew S. Baum, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Many thanks. A couple of questions please. Some of the industry lobbies has championed net
pricing given the announcements last night. So Frank and Ken, could you talk to the Merck
assessment of the proposal, particularly probably if it goes through, how you see the risks as well
as the potential positives and the spillover in terms of the commercial book of business when?
And then secondly to Roger, I note that you recently initiated a trial of olaparib in tissue-agnostic
setting with HRR mutated tumors who are resistant to refractory or gold standard treatment. The
question is, number one, is that trial fileable given the advanced nature of the patients? And
number two, the size of that patient population depending on what biomarker you use could be
very substantial. Could you talk to how large that population may be in a percentage of
addressable relapsed/refractory patients? Many thanks.
A - `Kenneth C. Frazier, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Andrew. Let me start with your first question about the HHS rebate proposal. Let me
start by saying we share the administration's goal of lowering out-of-pocket cost for patients.
That's critical for patients, it's critical for our business. As you know, unfortunately the current
pharmaceutical supply chain includes various misaligned incentives that serves to support
middleman while often neglecting patients. We are evaluating the specific proposal released bythe administration late yesterday and we're hopeful that it will achieve this shared goal of
ensuring patients have affordable access to innovative medicines.
A - `Roger M. Perlmutter, Executive Vice President & President-Merck Research Laboratories `
Yeah. And Andrew, I think you were asking a question – we're having a little bit of trouble hearing
you here, but you were asking a question about a Lynparza study which was a tissue-agnostic
study. And again, this is part of the broader rollout of our Lynparza analysis because what we
found with Lynparza, as I think everyone recognizes is that the breadth of activity of Lynparza is
greater than we expected. First of all, any DNA repair, a variety of DNA repair defects, defects in
the molecule's recombination, seem to sensitize cells through Lynparza. But even in cell types in
which those defects are not recognizable, there's evidence, accumulating evidence that we're
seeing clinical responses. So we're beginning to think of Lynparza having much broader activity,
and that's particularly the case when we look at Lynparza in combination with KEYTRUDA and
other agents. So you can expect to see broader studies of Lynparza in a variety of different
settings both outside of the hormone responsive tumors and as well in combination with other
agents. I hope that helps.
A - `Teri Loxam, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations & Global Communications `
Great. Thanks, Andrew. We'll move on to the question please, Darla.
Operator
Your next question is from Chris Schott with JPMorgan.
Q - `Christopher Schott, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Great. Thanks very much for the questions. My first question was just on longer-term margin
expansion and just expenses in general. I guess as we think about the low to mid-single-digit
OpEx growth in 2019, is that a reasonable growth rate to think about on a go-forward basis for
Merck or should we think about spending starting to moderate as we look out to 2020 and
beyond? I know in general there's been a lot of discussion around kind of the magnitude of
operating margin expansion, so any color on that front would be helpful. And my second question
was just – is focusing a little bit more on the launch dynamics in first-line lung, specifically in the
U.S. I guess, can you just give us a sense of where we are at this point in terms of share of new
starts? And are there any additional areas for growth within the lung market and I guess where
you must focus on from a commercial standpoint as we think about just that indication playing
through in the U.S.? Thanks very much.
A - `Teri Loxam, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations & Global Communications `
Thanks, Chris. So let's start with Rob.
A - `Robert M. Davis, Executive Vice President-Global Services & Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Chris. And to your question on long-term margin expansion, so as I said in the
prepared remarks, we continue to believe we will see meaningful operating margin expansion as
we go forward. But as we've been talking about, given the fact that we have such a wealth of
opportunity right now in R&D, you start with KEYTRUDA and look at just what this drug could be
and how unprecedented it is, we want to make sure we're investing fully behind that as well as
with Lynparza and Lenvima. Those programs are now in full swing, not to mention our vaccines
program. So as we've indicated, we do think you're going to see sales growth continue. And withyears as we really get to the bolus of that with R&D slowing down to a rate slower than sales
thereafter, and SG&A will continue to be managed very tightly.
It's nice to see frankly that even despite the fact that we're making meaningful investments in
R&D in 2019, we're actually going to see operating margin expansion in 2019. So that actually is
really I think a result of what we've done from disciplined expense management across the
organization to make sure we can put back all of our resources into the important programs in
R&D. But as we've talked about, we do have a long-term margin expansion. It will be driven mainly
by operating expense moderating versus sales. We do continue to believe SG&A will be
managed very tightly. And then you'll see R&D slow down after we get out of the next couple of
years. So that's really what we're driving.
A - `Teri Loxam, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations & Global Communications `
Great. Thanks, Rob. Frank, we'll have you comment on the first-line lung market.
A - `Frank K. Clyburn, Executive Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer `
Chris, we are seeing significant share of newly diagnosed first-line non-squamous non-small cell
lung cancer patients that do not have an abnormal EGF or ALK gene. Based off of KEYNOTE-189,
we've seen that penetration very rapidly in the majority of the segments in the non-squamous
non-small cell lung cancer setting. We do have room for further penetration in particular in the PD-
L1 patient population in the U.S., and that's where the team is focused. And also, we are seeing
very rapid uptake with our KEYNOTE-407 approval the end of October, and we're penetrating
the squamous cell carcinoma patient also very significantly. So I think in the U.S., I would say it's
really in the PD-L1-negative population where there's opportunity for further growth in the non-
squamous patients.
I would highlight outside the U.S., and just to reiterate, that we're very early on in the launch
outside the U.S. in lung cancer. In fact, most of our growth outside the U.S. is primarily being driven
off of the PD-L1 high express patient population on KEYNOTE-024. So we're just rolling out our
chemo combinations around the world and anticipate significant growth outside the U.S. in lung.
A - `Teri Loxam, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations & Global Communications `
Great. Thanks for your questions, Chris. We'll move on to the next caller, please.
Operator
It's from David Risinger with Morgan Stanley.
Q - `David R. Risinger, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Thanks very much. So I just wanted to go back to the margin opportunities beyond 2019. It seems
like Merck is increasingly becoming more of a specialty-focused company. And to that end, many
specialty biopharma companies can generate higher margins simply because they don't need the
primary care infrastructure and the other costs associated with a much broader portfolio. And so
could you discuss opportunities to further streamline Merck's cost structure in future years as you
continue to pivot the company? And then second, with respect to the data on February 16, the
abstracts are coming out on Monday, February 11, at 5 pm. So will we see the key data in the
abstract release or will we really have to wait for the data on February 16? Thank you.
A - `Robert M. Davis, Executive Vice President-Global Services & Chief Financial Officer `All right. Dave, thanks for the question. Maybe I'll take the first part and then Roger can take the
second part. So as you look at the profile of the business given the mix of our portfolio, you are
correct that as we go forward we continue to believe that there is an opportunity to shift as we
move to the more specialty-focused business to continue to optimize the resources we have
around primary care. I think the important point though is this isn't a new thing for us. In fact, when
we pointed this out in the past we've actually been able to grow on EPS basis through the years
even when we didn't have sales growth. At the same time, we were standing up an oncology
franchise from scratch and investing meaningfully into R&D. And so we did that because we have
already started really harvesting some of the primary care resources we have in the marketplace
primarily through selling forces. We've been reducing selling forces over the last several years to
be able to do that. And there's opportunity for us to continue to do that going forward, that's why
we do believe that we're going to continue to see SG&A get better as a percentage of sales
despite the fact that we're already at an industry best-in-class position with the fact that we still
have the primary care resources in place, although less than they used to be. So that is an
opportunity that's out there and we're going to be driving it over the next couple of years as we
move forward. So that is something you should look for as we go forward.
I think the thing that's important to note is while we're getting the favorable impact from mix
obviously given the strong volume growth and margin you get from positive mix, we do have the
headwinds at the gross margin line that we've talked about that's going to cause gross margin to
be roughly flat. So the operating margin expansion we're going to see will come from that SG&A
leveraging we're talking about as well as the R&D I mentioned earlier.
A - `Teri Loxam, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations & Global Communications `
Roger, you want to comment on...?
A - `Roger M. Perlmutter, Executive Vice President & President-Merck Research Laboratories `
Right. And David, you're referring on February 16 to the renal cell carcinoma data from KEYNOTE-
426. Of course, February 16 is also the PDUFA date for the KEYNOTE-054 study in adjuvant
melanoma, but I think you're referring to the KEYNOTE-426 data. And the complete data of
course will be presented then. There will be an abstract that appears beforehand. The abstract
has some data and, depending on what you view as key, there's some material in it. We're eager
to gain publication also of the complete analysis just as soon as we can. So there will be various
different parts of the data coming out, but the main presentation on February 16 is the part that I
would focus on.
A - `Teri Loxam, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations & Global Communications `
Thanks for your questions, Dave. Darla, we'll move on to the next caller, please.
Operator
It's from `Umer Raffat, Analyst, Evercore ISI with Evercore ISI.
Q - `Umer Raffat, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Good morning. Thanks so much for taking my questions. First, perhaps Roger, I feel like there's a
trial which hasn't come up very much at all on Merck conversations which is your stage 3 lung trial,
KEYNOTE-799. And it's my understanding that it's a first-line trial within stage 3 which would
potentially position KEYTRUDA before the current label for IMFINZI. However, what I noticed with
your slide today it calls it a second-line trial. So I just wanted to clarify that, A. And B, on thepneumococcal vaccine side I know there's a couple of Pfizer patents which you guys have
prosecuted in the past and now appealing. And my question is as it stands currently and let's say
the appeal doesn't go favorably, do you have the freedom to operate? Thank you very much.
A - `Roger M. Perlmutter, Executive Vice President & President-Merck Research Laboratories `
Okay. With respect to KEYNOTE-799 just to provide a higher altitude context for this, from the
very beginning our concern with respect to administering KEYTRUDA in the setting of
radiotherapy has been pneumonitis. And we know that from a variety of different studies
previously that we had come to associate proximity of radiotherapy with KEYTRUDA
administration with more inflammation in the lung. So KEYNOTE-799 has an important safety
component which is the administration of KEYTRUDA in combination with chemotherapy plus
radiotherapy in different cohorts. But the question of whether or not pneumonitis exceeds 10%,
that's really an important issue. The actual study population is a population that has undergone
resection but is not widely disseminated – sorry, let me get this right. The actual population is a
population of individuals who have lung cancer that is radio-responsive, potentially radio-
responsive, and who can receive that in a first-line environment because they won't have
received prior systemic chemotherapy. So that was your question.
A - `Kenneth C. Frazier, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
And your question with respect to V114, let me say that we continue to believe that we will have
freedom to operate in that space. And recently, the IPR ruling from the PTAB was in our favor on a
number of the patents that we have challenged, so we'll see what goes on as we move forward.
A - `Teri Loxam, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations & Global Communications `
Great. Thanks. We'll move on to the next question, please.
Operator
It's from `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC with Wolfe Research.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC `
Thank you. A couple of questions. Going back to the very first line of questioning on your pipeline
and then the perception by investors of late-stage enemies that tends to run on the thin side,
here you and Bristol potentially share a common thread which is all the heavy spending in IO has
maybe crowded out other R&D programs. So the question I had in this context is something that
we asked you maybe about a year ago. When is R&D spending on KEYTRUDA going to peak?
About a year ago you suggested that wasn't very far off qualitatively, but it was never quite clear
to me what that meant, and I know with all the combination programs maybe it doesn't peak any
time soon. So that's the first question.
Second question is just on your triple-negative breast adjuvant trial. Update on timing of seeing
those results and how would you characterize the riskiness of that trial in terms of achieving a
positive readout. Would you say it's low or medium or high risk?
A - `Teri Loxam, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations & Global Communications `
Sure. Let's start with Rob to talk about the cost first.
A - `Robert M. Davis, Executive Vice President-Global Services & Chief Financial Officer `Yeah. Good morning, Tim. With R&D, so if you look at what's driving the bulk of our clinical spend
right now, it is still KEYTRUDA but it's actually now more combination studies than it is
monotherapy studies. A lot of the monotherapy clinical studies are already starting to peak and
come off. So really right now, what's driving it is the combination studies and then in addition to
that, importantly, the investments in Lynparza and Lenvima will be peaking over the next couple of
years, too. So if you look at total R&D, it is being driven by those, and then obviously our vaccines
programs are contributing as well. So those are the major categories and we do think though the
bolus of KEYTRUDA-related studies and the broader Lynparza and Lenvima studies will peak in
the next couple of years. So when we've been talking about that threshold happening, it's really
those programs that are driving that change where we do think you'll see R&D slow down as we
move forward. Obviously, though, the good news from a long-term perspective is Roger keeps
turning over new positive thing, so we always have to moderate as we have opportunity to invest.
But the good news is we have a great pipeline, we're investing behind it, and we're going to
invest fully. You should see it peak in the next couple of years.
A - `Teri Loxam, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations & Global Communications `
Great. And Roger, you want to address the second question?
A - `Roger M. Perlmutter, Executive Vice President & President-Merck Research Laboratories `
Right. I believe, Tim, you're referring to the KEYNOTE-522 study which is a neoadjuvant study, and
we did have the opportunity to see early data from the KEYNOTE-522 study. We had the chance
to share those data with the agency and we and they agree that it is important to get additional
data with a longer term follow-up, so that's what we're waiting for that study. And once we have
those data available we'll have a chance to look at it more carefully and then of course share with
you.
A - `Teri Loxam, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations & Global Communications `
Great. Thanks for your questions, Tim. We'll move on to the next question.
Operator
It's from Vamil Divan with Credit Suisse.
Q - `Vamil K. Divan, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
Hi, great. Thanks so much for taking my questions. So, one, appreciate the color you gave on the
lung cancer side and the commercial uptick there. I'm just trying to understand the adjuvant
melanoma and also the front-line renal indications. Obviously, we need to see the full data on the
labels. Was there anything specific or unique with those two indications that may make the uptake
faster or slower than what we've seen so far in lung cancer? And then the second one just going
back to the topic of drug pricing. If you can just share what you're assuming in terms of net pricing
growth in the U.S. in 2019 for your guidance. And also sort of related to that question, in terms of
KEYTRUDA if you can just sort of share your net pricing assumptions U.S., Europe, and also China
would be very helpful. Thanks.
A - `Teri Loxam, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations & Global Communications `
So let's start with Frank on the adjuvant mel and RCC and maybe you can just comment broadly
on pricing for KEYTRUDA before we turn it over to Rob for the other pricing question.Vamil, in adjuvant mel we mentioned we're actually just starting approval in Europe for adjuvant
melanoma. We do think this is a good opportunity for us. We have established a very strong
foothold in metastatic melanoma so we think this is a good opportunity to expand into adjuvant
melanoma. As Roger mentioned, we're waiting on our PDUFA date for adjuvant melanoma in the
U.S. and we think we will be competitive there as well.
With regards to RCC, we're excited about the opportunity. The study was done across all risk
groups and we're looking forward to sharing the data in the next several weeks, but we think that
this will be a very important opportunity in RCC upon approval.
As far as KEYTRUDA goes with regards to pricing, we don't give out specific guidance from a
pricing perspective. But in the ex-U.S. markets, we're seeing very strong reimbursement for
KEYTRUDA based off of the very strong value proposition that we have, and we feel as though
we're positioned very well from a reimbursement perspective outside the U.S. And then, in the
U.S., we also feel as though we're positioned very well with regards to reimbursement, especially
because KEYTRUDA is reimbursed in Part B currently.
A - `Robert M. Davis, Executive Vice President-Global Services & Chief Financial Officer `
Good morning, Vamil. To your question on the guidance, while our guidance range does assume
multiple scenarios, we don't require any additional pricing in the United States to meet our
guidance range.
A - `Teri Loxam, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations & Global Communications `
Great. And we're going to try to squeeze in a few more questions here. I know we're getting
closer to the top of the hour. Next question please, Darla.
Operator
It's from Jason Gerberry with Bank of America.
Q - `Jason M. Gerberry, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hey. Good morning and thanks for taking my question. Maybe just, Frank, just a follow-up on a
couple of Vamil's questions here. So in adjuvant melanoma, just curious. In lung, you enjoy a first-
mover advantage. In adjuvant melanoma, Bristol already has roughly 70% share. So just kind of
curious how you think you can make inroads if you think the first-mover advantage is really that
important or if you think you can actually capture share. And then my second question just on
front-line renal. In the U.S., and maybe you're drawing from your experience in other tumor
settings, are payers mandating that they'll only reimburse the specific studied combinations? And
the reason I ask is I'm wondering if there's an advantage at all in terms of how these different TKI
combinations will be used. Will physicians ultimately migrate to using different TKIs which they're
more familiar with or more commonly used or if there's going to be a winner takes all with
potentially the study that gets there first with TKI? Thanks.
A - `Frank K. Clyburn, Executive Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer `
Yeah. So all things being equal, you would like to be first in most of the indications. However, we
have experienced in several cancer types where we were not first. So I'll point you to bladder
where we actually launched fifth in the U.S. and we now have the leading market share in bladder
cancer, and really it was because of the strong data with KEYNOTE-045 and the overall survival
benefits. So really, the oncologists are going to look first and foremost to the data and we feel asThe other thing I would also say is that in the community especially in the U.S. because of the
breadth of our program and because of the use in lung cancer, in head and neck, and now in
gastric and other cancer types, we feel as though the community is very familiar with using
KEYTRUDA. They're giving us very strong feedback on the profile of KEYTRUDA, and we think
that's going to help us not only in adjuvant mel but also being second in renal cell carcinoma. And
then the last one I'll mention on renal cell carcinoma is when we share the data in the next several
weeks, we feel as though, as Roger has highlighted, we've top line having overall survival benefit,
progression-free survival benefit, and strong response rates. So usually the oncologists will make
a choice based off of the data they see and we're looking forward to, upon approval, competing
in RCC.
A - `Teri Loxam, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations & Global Communications `
Great. Let's move on to the next question, please.
Operator
It's from `Alex Arfaei, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States) with BMO Capital Markets.
Q - `Alex Arfaei, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States) `
Great. Thank you and good morning [Technical Difficulty] (55:02) and Roger, could you please
provide your thoughts or comments on KEYTRUDA lifecycle planning? Obviously, after JANUVIA's
upcoming LOE you'll be more dependent on KEYTRUDA. I realize we're a few years away, but
given your valuation and potential size of this product it does become an important investment
consideration. And then for Frank, could you please provide your estimates of KEYTRUDA sales
by indication in both U.S. and ex-U.S.? Thank you.
A - `Kenneth C. Frazier, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
So the first question about KEYTRUDA, so obviously KEYTRUDA has been a winning franchise,
obviously, for us and an important growth driver across all the opportunities that we have both as
a monotherapy as well as a combination. But we continue to stress the fact that as we look at our
future, we don't see ourselves as just a KEYTRUDA story. So I emphasized before the other
pillars of growth including Lynparza and Lenvima in oncology, what comes after that with 20
unique mechanisms; the vaccines programs that we have; ZERBAXA; BRIDION; (56:10) the
Afferent compound. We continue to think that even when we see an important drug like JANUVIA
go off patent that Merck will have multiple sources of growth going forward. And then of course,
it's really important to recognize that in addition to our internal pipeline we're continuing to seek
to augment that pipeline with value creating, innovative external assets to business development.
So we feel very confident about our ability to drive sustained revenue growth going forward,
recognizing that a major patent expiration is coming.
A - `Teri Loxam, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations & Global Communications `
Great. And we'll turn it over to Frank next.
A - `Frank K. Clyburn, Executive Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer `
So in the U.S., and this is very directional data due to the claims data lagging several months
behind, but approximately 65% to 70% of our use is non-small cell lung cancer, melanoma
represents about 10%, head and neck is approximately 5%, bladder approximately 5%. And then
we also are seeing good growth in the MSI-high agnostic indication that represents about 5% ofthe U.S., it's really hard to give specific breakdowns, but the majority of our use right now is in
lung cancer.
A - `Teri Loxam, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations & Global Communications `
Great. Thanks, Frank. So we're going to (57:28) get to our last question.
Operator
It's from Geoff Meacham with Barclays.
Q - `Geoffrey Meacham, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Good morning, guys. Thanks for the question. Frank, I want to get a bit more detail about the
OUS dynamics for KEYTRUDA in lung. You guys saw good trends in 4Q but I wasn't sure if we're
already at an inflection point based on the cadence of reimbursement. Maybe just it'd be helpful
to go through how you see the pace of share gains in Europe in lung over the balance of the year.
And then Roger, at a higher level how are you guys thinking about the balance of therapeutic
areas in the pipeline? I mean, obviously you want to press your advantage in oncology, but is
expanding other existing categories is a strategic priority or is there capacity for new a
therapeutic category? Thank you.
A - `Teri Loxam, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations & Global Communications `
Let's start with Frank.
A - `Frank K. Clyburn, Executive Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer `
Sure. So in Europe, I'll give an example. So right now, we have reimbursement in most of the
European Union for KEYNOTE-024, and that's where you're seeing a lot of the growth on our
monotherapy indication. With KEYNOTE-189, we have reimbursement in Germany, Austria, and
Netherlands and a couple of other markets, But we're very early on in getting an uptake for
KEYNOTE-189 broadly in Europe, and I anticipate that will come throughout the year. Very similar
ramp to what we saw back when we launched KEYNOTE-024, so think of that as the timing you
should be thinking about for that ramp. In addition to that, as mentioned Japan we think is a very
significant opportunity now with not only the approval of KEYNOTE-189 but KEYNOTE-407 and
also KEYNOTE-042, so we think Japan provides a very good opportunity outside the U.S. And
then as mentioned, we're in the very early stages in China with just our first launch in second-line
melanoma, so we see also outside the US significant opportunities for growth there.
A - `Roger M. Perlmutter, Executive Vice President & President-Merck Research Laboratories `
Yeah, and this is Roger. If I might, I'd say also today the CHMP announced that they adopted a
positive opinion with respect to KEYNOTE-407 in Europe.
A - `Frank K. Clyburn, Executive Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer `
Yeah.
A - `Roger M. Perlmutter, Executive Vice President & President-Merck Research Laboratories `
And with that, of course reimbursement will be required. In most markets it will take some time,
but it's going to advance that still further. In terms of balance of therapeutic areas, Geoff, certainly
my interest is in having the greatest possible impact on improving and extending human lifewherever we see that, and so we're not going to be bound to any particular therapeutic area. If
you look at the kinds of things that we're doing, look at the work that's taking place in HIV right
now. MK-8591 is an extraordinary molecule. We've got Phase 2 data in combination with
doravirine. We hope we'll have an opportunity to present those data probably sometime around
the middle of the year. And this is really a remarkable compound in terms of its potency, the
durability of the treatment effect, and it changes the landscape in a lot of ways in terms of how
you think about HIV treatment. That's a therapeutic area which doesn't get an enormous amount
of attention externally but which we're putting a lot of effort into just as we're putting a lot of
effort into other areas in infectious diseases. So there's a lot of work going on.
A - `Teri Loxam, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations & Global Communications `
Great. Thanks.
A - `Kenneth C. Frazier, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
So let me close by thanking you for joining us. We had a strong 2018. We're confident going
forward in our execution, in our pipeline, and our future. We believe that we're well-positioned to
drive sustained revenue growth. And we also expect meaningful operating margin expansion
over time, and that's largely the result of a differentiated pipeline that we believe will actually
position Merck well going forward. So thank you.
A - `Teri Loxam, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations & Global Communications `
That'll conclude our call. Thank you, Darla. Thanks everyone.
Operator
Thank you. This concludes the Merck Fourth Quarter 2018 Sales and Warnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.