Q4 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Welcome to the Merck & Co Q4 Sales and Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants
are on a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session of today's conference.
(Operator Instructions). This call is being recorded, if you have any objections, you may
disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.`Peter Dannenbaum, Vice President, Investor Relations, Vice President, Investor Relations.
Sir, you may begin.
`Peter Dannenbaum, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you and good morning. Welcome to Merck's fourth quarter 2022 conference call. Speaking
on today's call will be Rob Davis, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; `Caroline Litchfield, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Chief
Financial Officer; and Dr.Dean Li; President of Merck Research Labs.
Before we get started, I'd like to point out a few items. You will see that we have items in our
GAAP results, such as acquisition related charges, restructuring costs and certain other items. You
should note, that we have excluded these from our non-GAAP results and provide a reconciliation
in our press release.
I would like to remind you that some of the statements that we make today, may be considered
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor Provision of the U.S. Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are made based on the current beliefs
of Merck's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. If our underlying
assumptions prove inaccurate or uncertainties materialize, actual results may differ materially2021 10-K identify certain risk factors and cautionary statements that could cause the company's
actual results to differ materially from those projected in any of our forward-looking statements
made this morning. Merck undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking
statements.
During today's call, a slide presentation will accompany our speakers' prepared remarks. The
presentation, today's earnings release as well as our SEC filings are all posted to the Investor
Relations section of Merck's website.
With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Rob.
`Robert M. Davis, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Peter. Good morning, and thank you for joining today's call. 2022 was an exceptional year
for Merck. Our science-led strategy is working, and I couldn't be more proud of what our team
has delivered scientifically, commercially and operationally. We're focusing on what matters and
keeping the patient at the center of everything we do.
We made significant progress in 2022 advancing our broad pipeline, with important internal
success complemented by a portfolio of strategic acquisitions, collaborations and partnerships.
We have moved with speed and urgency to drive strong progress. And we have provided
increased transparency into several of our long-term opportunities, including for GARDASIL, for
our cardiovascular pipeline, and more recently, from newer assets that leverage our leadership
position in oncology. We enter 2023 with even greater confidence that we're creating a
sustainable engine that will bring forth innovation and generate value for both patients and
shareholders over the long-term.
Turning first to our results. The business is performing extremely well. The growth we've
experienced in 2022 reflects a sustained track record of fundamental strength from our de-risked
key growth pillars. We begin the year with confidence that we'll maintain this strong underlying
growth, after taking into account the significant impact LAGEVRIO had during the height of the
pandemic last year, and are pleased to reflect this in our 2023 initial guidance.
Importantly, our pipeline is advancing with significant progress across several late-stage
programs. In oncology, we have expansive research efforts, including our ambition to move
treatment into earlier stage settings where there is a higher potential for more favorable longer-
term outcomes for patients. In December, along with our partner Moderna, we were pleased to
announce highly encouraging Phase 2 results for a personalized mRNA therapeutic cancer vaccine
in combination with KEYTRUDA in the treatment of adjuvant melanoma.
We're excited by the potential that this combination may have for patients across a range of
tumor types. And last week, we were pleased to receive FDA approval for KEYTRUDA for the
treatment of certain patients with early-stage non-small cell lung cancer following resection and
platinum-based chemotherapy, which Caroline and Dean will speak to.
In cardiovascular, we're exploring candidates across a broad range of diseases and have made
substantial progress from just one year ago. At the American College of Cardiology conference,
we will present data from the STELLAR trial evaluating sotatercept in pulmonary arterial
hypertension and from the Phase 2 trial of MK-0616, our oral PCSK9 inhibitor, and we will also
host an investor event to discuss these programs.
In vaccines, Instituto Butantan in Brazil, with whom we are collaborating for vaccine development,
reported very encouraging topline results for their candidate for the prevention of dengue.These data will inform future development of our dengue vaccine, V181, and our efforts to
address this critical public health challenge.
Finally, through our business development efforts, we brought in four programs which will have
Phase 3 trial starts in 2023 and which have the opportunity to contribute meaningful growth
during the latter half of this decade and into the next. We are following our disciplined approach
to business development, and we'll act when scientific opportunity and value align. We have more
to do, but I feel very good about the progress we've made in 2022 and we believe that all of
these efforts will lead to real benefits for patients and, in turn, for shareholders.
We enter 2023 with confidence in the innovation engine we are building and our ability to deliver
sustainable value for patients well into the next decade. We will continue to execute on our de-
risked assets and act with urgency to advance and grow our pipeline. We are doing all of this with
an approach to sustainability that is closely aligned to our overall business strategy. I'm very
confident in the short and long-term outlook of our company, and I look forward to providing
future updates.
With that, I'll turn the call over to Caroline.
`Caroline Litchfield, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Rob. Good morning. As Rob noted, 2022 was an exceptional year for our company.
We delivered excellent topline growth of 22% driven by strength across our key pillars of
Oncology, Vaccines and Hospital, as well as a significant contribution from LAGEVRIO. Our Animal
Health business delivered strong operational growth, which was offset by foreign exchange.
These results are a testament to the profound impact our medicines and vaccines are having on
patients globally, which are enabled by our dedicated teams who are executing with excellence
to deliver these important innovations. We are confident in the health of our business, give our
outlook for continued strong underlying growth.
Now, turning to our fourth quarter results. Total company revenues were $13.8 billion, an increase
of 2%. Excluding the impact from foreign exchange, the business delivered strong operational
growth of 8%. The remainder of my revenue comments will be on an ex-exchange basis. Our
Human Health and Animal Health businesses continued their strong growth increasing 9% and
6%, respectively
Now, turning to the fourth quarter performance of our key brands. In Oncology, KEYTRUDA grew
26% to $5.5 billion driven by strong global demand for in-line indications as well as continued
global expansion from new approvals. In the U.S., KEYTRUDA grew across all key tumor types and
continues to benefit from uptake in earlier-stage cancers including triple negative breast cancer,
as well as in certain types of renal cell carcinoma and melanoma.
KEYTRUDA continues to have a profound impact on patients, including in earlier-stage cancers,
where there is greater potential for better outcomes. We are excited by the recent approval of
KEYNOTE-091, which represents KEYTRUDA's seventh indication in earlier-stage cancers. Early
lung cancer detection and screening remain an important unmet need. It is our ambition, along
with others to improve lung cancer screening rates to levels similar to other tumor types, such as
breast, where screening programs are more routine.
While we are committed to addressing this unmet need, we anticipate a more gradual near-term
uptake from this indication. In the metastatic setting, KEYTRUDA maintains its leadership position
in non-small cell lung cancer, which gives us confidence that we are well-positioned to positively
impact patients in the earlier setting.Outside the U.S., KEYTRUDA growth continues to be driven by uptake in metastatic indications,
including non-small cell lung cancer, head and neck cancer and renal cell carcinoma as well as
recent launches in earlier-stage cancers, including certain types of high-risk, early-stage triple
negative breast cancer and renal cell carcinoma.
Lynparza maintains its leadership of the PARP inhibitor class. Alliance revenue grew 14% primarily
due to continued demand in certain patients with high-risk, early-stage breast cancer. Lenvima
Alliance revenue grew 9% driven by increased uptake in the treatment of certain patients with
advanced renal cell carcinoma and advanced endometrial cancer in the U.S.. Lastly, WELIREG is
performing in-line with our expectations, and we are proud of the impact it is having on adult
patients with certain VHL-associated tumors.
Our vaccines portfolio delivered growth with GARDASIL increasing 6% to $1.5 billion, driven by
strong demand in major ex-U.S. markets, particularly China. In the U.S., sales decreased primarily
due to CDC purchasing patterns. Vaccines sales also benefited from the pediatric launch of
VAXNEUVANCE, which is off to an encouraging start, with revenues also benefitting from
inventory stocking.
In our Hospital Acute Care portfolio, BRIDION sales grew 7%, driven by an increase in market
share among neuromuscular blockade reversal agents and an increase in surgical procedures.
Hospital Acute Care sales also benefitted from the resupply of ZERBAXA, which started in the
fourth quarter of 2021.
Our Animal Health business delivered another solid quarter, with sales increasing 6% reflecting
strategic price actions and volume growth. Livestock sales grew 12% driven by increased demand
in ruminants and poultry products. Companion animal sales were negatively impacted by supply
challenges for certain vaccines and a reduction in vet visits in October, which improved during the
quarter.
I will now walk you through the remainder of our P&L, and my comments will be on a non-GAAP
basis. Gross margin was 75.7%, an increase of 0.9 percentage points due to favorable product
mix and foreign exchange. Operating expenses increased 8% to $5.7 billion, reflecting increased
investments to support our portfolio and growing pipeline. Other income was $86 million,
reflecting the return on pension plan assets and capitalized interest, which was largely offset by
net interest expense. Our tax rate was 15.6%. Taken together, earnings per share were $1.62.
Turning now to our 2023 non-GAAP guidance. The strength across our key pillars is expected to
continue into this year. We project revenue to be between $57.2 billion and $58.7 billion, including
approximately $1 billion from LAGEVRIO. Excluding the negative impact of LAGEVRIO and an
approximate 2% negative impact from foreign exchange using mid-January rates, we expect
strong underlying revenue growth of 7% to 10%.
Our gross margin is expected to be approximately 77%. Operating expenses are assumed to be
between $23.1 billion and $24.1 billion, which includes $1.4 billion of research and development
expenses related to our acquisition of Imago and the expansion of our collaboration with Kelun
Biotech. As a reminder, our guidance does not assume additional significant potential business
development transactions.
Other income is anticipated to be approximately $250 million. We assume a full-year tax rate
between 17% and 18% and approximately 2.55 billion shares outstanding. Taken together, we
expect EPS of $6.80 to $6.95. This range includes a negative impact from foreign exchange of
approximately 4%, using mid-January rates. Our guidance reflects confidence in the continuedAs you consider your models, there are a few items to keep in mind. On revenues, we are
confident in our ability to drive strong growth of GARDASIL, particularly in international markets.
Global immunization levels remain low, which creates a tremendous opportunity to benefit more
patients. And we are improving supply, which positions us well to support the significant demand
we are experiencing today and expect over the long term for this vaccine that prevents HPV-
related cancers.
Other revenue is projected to decline significantly, primarily reflecting a smaller planned benefit
from revenue hedges following the U.S. dollar strength last year, which resulted in an
approximate $800 million benefit in 2022. Other revenue is also expected to be lower due to the
discontinuation of third-party manufacturing sales to Johnson & Johnson.
On the rest of the P&L, we project a shift from other expense to other income, which is primarily
attributable to an assumption that there will be no pension settlement cost as well as an
expectation of lower net interest expense and higher joint venture equity income. This benefit is
more than offset by an increase in the estimated tax rate, due to the unfavorable impact of the
R&D capitalization provision as well as an approximate 1 percentage point impact related to
Imago.
Now shifting to capital allocation, where our priorities remain unchanged. We will continue to
prioritize investments in our business to drive near and long-term growth. We are excited about
the significant progress our team has made to advance and augment our pipeline in 2022. In
2023, we will continue to invest in opportunities that will address important unmet medical needs
and drive the next wave of growth for our company, including the initiation of many late-stage
clinical trials across a broad set of novel candidates.
We remain committed to our dividend, with the goal of increasing it over time. We will continue to
pursue the most compelling external science through value-enhancing business development to
augment our internal pipeline, and will invest appropriately to maximize the potential of our R&D
programs. Given the strength of our business and balance sheet, we plan to resume share
repurchases, while ensuring we maintain ample capacity to pursue additional business
development, which is the higher priority.
To conclude, we enter 2023 with confidence in our ability to execute on the important
opportunities we have to deliver innovation to patients and sustain the strong underlying growth
of our business well into the future.
With that, I'd now like to turn the call over to Dean.
`Dean Y. Li, Executive Vice President and President, Merck Research Laboratories `
Thank you, Caroline. Today, I will provide notable updates since our last earnings call. We continue
to make significant advancements and achieve important regulatory milestones. The fourth
quarter marks the end of a successful year with progress made across oncology, vaccines,
infectious diseases and cardiology.
Let me start with oncology. We remain committed to transforming the landscape of cancer
therapy with an ongoing focus on treating earlier stages of disease. We are pleased by the
recent approval of KEYTRUDA for the adjuvant treatment of adult patients with stage IB, II or IIIA
non-small cell lung cancer following resection and platinum-based chemotherapy based on the
results of KEYNOTE-091. This approval provides, for the very first time, an adjuvant
immunotherapy option for this patient population with stage IB disease and regardless of PD-L1
status.Beyond KEYNOTE-091, we have additional ongoing studies in earlier stages of non-small cell lung
cancer including: KEYNOTE-671 evaluating KEYTRUDA with platinum doublet chemotherapy as
neoadjuvant followed by adjuvant therapy in resectable stage II, IIIA and IIIB disease; KEYNOTE-
867 evaluating KEYTRUDA in patients undergoing stereotactic body radiotherapy with unresected
stage I or II disease; and KEYLYNK-012 studying KEYTRUDA in combination with Lynparza in stage
III disease.
These trials are all part of our broader effort to treat earlier stages of cancers and further
improve patient outcomes across tumor types, such as melanoma. Together with Moderna, we
announced positive Phase 2 results for V940/mRNA-4157, in combination with KEYTRUDA, for the
adjuvant treatment of stage III and IV melanoma in patients with high risk of recurrence following
complete resection.
The combination demonstrated a statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvement in
recurrence free survival versus KEYTRUDA alone. This investigational personalized neoantigen
therapy utilizes mRNA technology and is specifically tailored to target the unique mutational
signature of each patient's tumor. We plan to discuss the results with regulators and initiate Phase
3 trials in multiple tumors this year. Detailed results will be presented at an upcoming medical
meeting.
We also announced positive results from the Phase 3 KEYNOTE-966 trial evaluating KEYTRUDA in
combination with chemotherapy. This trial demonstrated an improvement in overall survival for
the first line treatment of patients with advanced or unresectable biliary tract cancer. In addition,
we announced positive topline results from the Phase 3 KEYNOTE-859 trial evaluating
KEYTRUDA in combination with chemotherapy for the first-line treatment of patients with HER2-
negative locally advanced unresectable or metastatic gastric or gastro-esophageal junction
adenocarcinoma.
In November, we announced the acquisition of Imago Biosciences which closed last month.
Imago's lead candidate, bomedemstat, is a potentially first-in-class orally available lysine-specific
demethylase 1 inhibitor. It is currently being evaluated in multiple Phase 2 clinical trials for the
treatment of essential thrombocythemia, myelofibrosis and polycythemia vera. The combined
team is now focused on continuing to advance the ongoing clinical development programs.
At the American Society of Hematology annual meeting, data were presented from multiple
pipeline candidates including: favezelimab, our anti-LAG3 antibody; zilovertamab vedotin, an
antibody drug conjugate targeting ROR-1; and nemtabrutinib, our oral reversible, non-covalent
BTK inhibitor as well as KEYTRUDA. Updated Phase 2 data for bomedemstat in essential
thrombocythemia and advanced myelofibrosis were also presented. We continue to deliver on
our regulatory strategy.
In the European Union, along with our partner, Astra Zeneca, we announced the approval for
Lynparza, in combination with abiraterone and prednisone, for the treatment of certain patients
with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer based on the results of the PROpel trial. In
China, based on the results of KEYNOTE-522 and KEYNOTE-394, we received approvals for
KEYTRUDA in neoadjuvant, adjuvant high-risk, early-stage triple negative breast cancer and
hepatocellular carcinoma, respectively.
With our partners Astellas and Seagen, we announced the FDA has accepted supplemental
biologics license applications for KEYTRUDA with PADCEV, an antibody-drug conjugate targeting
Nectin-4, for the first-line treatment of certain patients with locally advanced or metastatic
urothelial cancer, who are not eligible to receive cisplatin-containing chemotherapy. The agencyset a PDUFA date of April 21, 2023 for each application. Building on the clinical benefits observed
with KEYTRUDA in combination with chemotherapy and antibody drug conjugates, we have
focused on augmenting our tissue targeting candidates through business development.
We announced the expansion of our agreement with Kelun Biotech with the addition of up to
seven preclinical antibody drug conjugates. The collaboration leverages technology with the
potential to yield a new generation of candidates designed to precisely target and deliver potent
anticancer agents to the tumor site. This follows previously disclosed agreements for two clinical
stage candidates, including MK-2870, an investigational TROP2 targeting ADC we are planning to
advance into Phase 3 trials this year.
We also expanded our collaboration with PeptiDream to include the discovery and development
of peptide drug conjugates. This technology potentially provides for improved permeability and
drug selectivity in targeting tumor tissue.
Next to our vaccines portfolio. We were encouraged by the progress scientists and clinicians at
the Instituto Butantan in Brazil made in developing a single dose dengue vaccine candidate for
registration in Brazil. We are collaborating with the team there to conduct a detailed analysis of
these positive, topline Phase 3 results to determine next steps for our own dengue vaccine
candidate, V181, currently in Phase 2 development. Merck's goal is to make V181 available outside
of Brazil for populations at-risk for dengue.
As Caroline noted, we are receiving positive feedback from the field regarding the recent launch
of VAXNEUVANCE in the pediatric setting and remain confident in our population-specific
strategy for the prevention of pneumococcal disease.
VAXNEUVANCE offers strong protection, including in the first year of life, with robust immunity
across all shared and unique serotypes. This is important because the incidence of invasive
pneumococcal disease is greatest in the first year of life for children. Also, we are on track and
look forward to the Phase 3 results from our V116 program for the protection of adults this year.
We, along with others in the industry, are making a real impact in our goal to help reduce cancer
incidence. It was noteworthy that the American Cancer Society's recently published annual report
on cancer facts and trends include the remarkable observation that there has been a 65%
reduction in cervical cancer incidence in women 20 to 24years old, from 2012 through 2019.
It is this type of finding that further reinforces Merck's commitment to bringing forward treatment
and prevention options to help patients with this devastating disease. As part of this
commitment, we are encouraged by the role GARDASIL continues to play in helping to prevent
certain HPV related cervical cancers.
Turning to the broader portfolio. With the continued impact of COVID-19 in China, treatment
options are urgently needed to help reduce the incidence of disease and burden on healthcare
systems. We were pleased, LAGEVRIO was granted conditional marketing authorization by
China's National Medical Products Administration in December, for use in adult patients who have
mild to moderate COVID-19 infection and a high risk of progressing to severe cases.
I wish to reinforce something Rob mentioned. Please mark your calendars for March 6th, where
we will present detailed findings of the Phase 3 STELLAR trial evaluating sotatercept in patients
with pulmonary arterial hypertension and the Phase 2 results for MK-0616, our oral PCSK9
inhibitor, at the American College of Cardiology in conjunction with the World Congress of
Cardiology meeting in New Orleans. We will also host a live investor event to answer your
questions.We look forward to bringing sotatercept as an important treatment option to patients and are
currently working towards submission of the data from the STELLAR trial. We are in discussions
with the FDA about submission of the data on a rolling basis, which is likely to result in a potential
approval in early 2024.
As we close out 2022, it is important to highlight that over the course of the year, we made
strong progress across therapeutic areas, modalities, stages of development and multiple
business development transactions.
In oncology, we obtained several important regulatory approvals globally for KEYTRUDA and
Lynparza as well as advanced the number of programs evaluating earlier stage cancer regimens.
In vaccines, we received an important approval in pediatrics for VAXNEUVANCE. And in addition,
we were granted expanded authorizations in China and active recommendations were reinstated
in Japan for GARDASIL. In HIV, we resumed our clinical development program for islatravir.
And finally, in cardiovascular disease, we made significant progress across our pulmonary arterial
hypertension and hypercholesterolemia programs. Taken together, we continue to deliver on our
strategy of advancing promising candidates across multiple therapeutic areas. We have strong
momentum across our pipeline and look forward to providing further updates on our progress in
2023.
And now, I will turn the call back to Peter.
`Peter Dannenbaum, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Dean. Kelly, we're ready to take questions now. We intend to end the call at 9 sharp this
morning. So request that the analysts limit themselves to one question please.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from `Carter Gould, Barclays from Barclays. Carter, your line is
open.
Q - `Carter Gould, Barclays `
Hi. Thank you for taking the question. Maybe just you made some comments around sort of
uptake in the adjuvant setting after the most recent label update. Can you maybe just sort of set
expectations there, and does that comment reflect any sort of assumptions around when we
might see more mature data from the PEARLS study potentially this year? Thank you.
A - `Dean Y. Li, Executive Vice President and President, Merck Research Laboratories `
Yes, so I believe you're speaking about KEYNOTE-091. So I just want to take a broad view, and
then the today view and the tomorrow view. So I would just count that the American Cancer
Society 2023, it's really remarkable. They suggest that for between 1991 and 2023, there's a
massive reduction in lung cancer, 58%, 36%, and KEYTRUDA has been critical in that story. And
now we're moving to early lung. The label is broad. It is regardless of PD-L1 and it reflects the
clinical trial where we demonstrated a 27% reduction. We're pushing into these earlier lines with
other trials, but I think, for -- what we need to set for is two things. We need to make it much
more easier with scientific innovation, other means to get to subcu -- I mean to get KEYTRUDA,and that's why we're very eager to push our subcu pembrolizumab with (inaudible) into Phase 3
this year.
But we also need to do a lot to improve adherence to establish guidelines, which currently only
have 6% or so of individuals actually who should be screened -- being screened in the United
States. So I think with that, we have work to do in relationship to really taking this important
advance and making it broadly available to individuals who should be getting screened.
A - `Robert M. Davis, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
So Carter, maybe I can just add on a little bit about the commercial opportunity. As Dean said, this
will be a slower ramp, because we have to drive more people to get diagnosed early so that we
can get them the care they need. But just to give you some sizing of this, if you look at 2023,
there are about 230,000 people who were diagnosed with lung cancer in the U.S. and the
majority of that group was not diagnosed until they were in the metastatic setting. So if you think
about it from a minority perspective, we would estimate about 120,000 people in the early-stage
setting, of which, only a quarter will have resection or have surgery and be in the stage 1B to 3A,
which is what our label indicates. So you're looking at about 30,000 patients who would be the
addressable population. And then, obviously, of that group, historically, only about half of those
patients have gone on to receive treatment in the form of chemotherapy or IO.
So that's obviously something we hope to change as we go forward because we think the
outcomes will show that if you are resected, you should pursue KEYTRUDA in that setting, and it's
our goal over time not only to drive more patients in that segment, but obviously, the more
people we can get diagnosed early pre-metastatic, then actually we'll expand the population
over time. So we see this is a meaningful opportunity long term that is going to take us time to
ramp as we work to change the paradigm that's existed in the past.
A - `Peter Dannenbaum, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Carter. Next question please, Kelly.
Operator
Our next question is going to come from `Andrew Baum, Citi from Citi.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Citi `
Hi. Thank you. A couple of questions. Could you please address the demand of Merck's business
to plug the holes associated with the KEYTRUDA LOE post 2028, alternatively instead, just build
the exit growth rate and focus less on finding revenues to plug the hole as you think about your
BD strategy? And perhaps quickly for Dean, could you just give us some guidance on the timing
for the PFS analysis in the PD-L1 high greater than 50 cohort from KeyVibe-003? Should we
expect it in the next 12 months? I know the total PFS read for the whole trial is somewhere in '24,
but it strikes me you may have a separate analysis for that greater than 50 subgroup? Thank you.
A - `Robert M. Davis, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Well, maybe Andrew, I'll start off and that Carolyn or Dean want to jump in. But to give you
a sense, obviously, we haven't given specific guidance to the LOE period. But just to ground
everyone in the facts, KEYTRUDA in our expectation, will lose exclusivity in the United States in
2028 and in China in 2028. It loses it in Europe in 2030, and in Japan in 2032. So obviously, by
shorthand, we refer to '28, but the reality of it is over most of the markets, and KEYTRUDAwe sit today, I would say, we feel good about the progress we've made, we're confident that
we're on a path to sustainable growth into the next decade. Obviously, we have more work to do.
But I would just point you to a few proof points that I think support that.
First of all, as we talked about, in the last 18 months, we've made meaningful progress in our
cardiovascular pipeline. We have eight potential approvals between 2025 and 2030. Obviously,
the centerpiece of that is sotatercept and what we're seeing from the STELLAR data, which really
was just quite phenomenal. If you look at that, we expect those products are portfolio of
opportunity on an un-risk-adjusted basis to be in excess of $10 billion as you approach the mid-
2030s. We recently discussed the fact that even the business development deals we've done
that brought in new assets apart from KEYTRUDA, apart from Lynparza, Lenvima and WELIREG
that themselves these new mechanisms I would point you to things like Orion and Imago. Those
products along with what we see in the ABC space as a portfolio we think themselves have the
potential for $10 billion or more of revenue as you get into the early to mid-2030s. So today, we
sit there with the expectation that we are starting to make meaningful progress and that
excludes all the work we're doing to bring an incremental value to patients on KEYTRUDA.
And obviously, as great as KEYTRUDA is, it still only has an overall response rate averaging
around 30%. We need to deepen and drive better response. We're looking to do that through
combinations and through other means to find ways to improve on KEYTRUDA. We're looking to
continue to expand the new tumor types as well, and clearly, move into earlier lines of therapy
where we believe we can start to move to a point that we can actually give people an extension
of life, and hopefully, someday you get to a point that we talk about cancer is a chronic disease
and not a fatal disease. Obviously, you have more to do there, but that is the aspiration, and we
have a lot of efforts underway to do that through what we're doing in IO-IO combinations, IO-
ABC combinations with our subcutaneous offering.
And then obviously, we're very excited recently about the deal we did with Moderna for the
personalized cancer vaccine, which is really a therapeutic that we think in combination with
KEYTRUDA, while we're starting it first in Melanoma, obviously, we believe has the potential to
move into broader tumors. So that in of itself gives us a lot of confidence and we're doing similar
activities with Lynparza, with Lenvima, and then obviously, WELIREG is in its early days. So if you
look at the total of that and I haven't even gotten into our vaccines portfolio and what we see is
excitement there. We feel like we've made a lot of progress. We have more to do, but that's why
you hear me talk more about how do we build the sustainable engine to drive growth well into
the next decade. And that really should be a focus point, because I'm confident, if we do that
well, the LOE of KEYTRUDA will take care of itself. So Dean?
A - `Dean Y. Li, Executive Vice President and President, Merck Research Laboratories `
Yes. So there was a question on our TIGIT program, KEYTRUDA plus TIGIT. Just to remind
everyone, we have nine ongoing trials, we have five Phase 3s. In fact, just recently in December,
we opened up KeyVibe-10, which is Phase 3 and in early melanoma. In relationship to KeyVibe-
003, which I think is the question, we added the TPS greater than 50% as an endpoint. These are
event-driven. And as the event drive to specifically and clinically meaningful data, we'll announce it
appropriately.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Citi `
Great.
A - `Peter Dannenbaum, Vice President, Investor Relations `Thank you, Andrew. Next question please, Kelly.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Evan Seigerman, BMO from BMO. Evan, your line is open.
Q - `Evan Seigerman, BMO `
Hi, guys. Thank you so much for taking the question. I would love to just talk to what might make
MK-2870 a better TROP2 targeting ADC versus those that we've seen from Gilead and Astra and
Daiichi? Also do you still believe that it's too difficult to combine an ADC plus IO in a fixed-dose
combination? Thank you.
A - `Dean Y. Li, Executive Vice President and President, Merck Research Laboratories `
Yes. So let me just state, I -- we'll be starting a whole series of Phase 3 trials this year. I really
appreciate your question. For me, the critical thing is whether it be an ADC or whether it be a RAF
inhibitor, in solid tumors, especially as you want to advance in solid tumors where IO has been
important, the combination benefit of the two becomes really important. So we're very excited to
be pushing for our TROP2-ADC. I can get into the details of the molecules and the linkers and the
payloads and the DARs, but really the better sort of thing is, I believe that this year we will be
presenting our Phase 2 studies.
And at the end of the day, that'll be the most convincing data to provide to you as to why we
think we have an important play with our TROP2-ADC, but it's also the play of that TROP2-ADC in
relationship to adding it to an IO agent. We think that is an important considerations when thinking
about any cancer-killing mechanism in solid tumors.
A - `Peter Dannenbaum, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Great. Thank you, Evan. Next question please, Kelly.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Louise Chen, Cantor Fitzgerald from Cantor. Louise, your line is open.
Q - `Louise Chen, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Hi, thanks for taking my question here. So I wanted to know how you're thinking about your Phase
3 trial design for your oral PCSK9? And how will that design really highlight the competitive
advantages of your product? Thank you.
A - `Robert M. Davis, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much. So first, I don't want to get ahead too much of our March 6 Investor
Meeting where we'll showing the data that we have in relationship to the oral PCSK9 and
sotatercept. I will just sort of emphasize what we're trying to accomplish, and what we're trying to
accomplish is we are trying to accomplish the most potent LDL lowering oral pill for lowering
cholesterol. There should be no coaching, there should be very little need to interact with the
healthcare system, which makes it reach very easy and very accessible, not just in the U.S, but
globally. And we need to do it at a price point of what I would call a branded oral medicine would
be in order to maximize the access.
In relationship to Phase 3, there's a general sort of view of how that is. One is you would drive itat the same time, drive towards outcomes, which is also going to be important. So our Phase 3
trial design is informed by what the history of the field has been and what the FDA's regulatory
sort of outlines have been for others.
A - `Peter Dannenbaum, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Great. Thank you, Louise. Next question please, Kelly.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Tim Anderson, Wolfe Research from Wolfe Research. Tim, your line is open.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Wolfe Research `
Thank you. If I could ask you a question on V940, the cancer vaccine. What tumor types outside of
melanoma do you already have any positive human data and even if those are earlier stage? And
if you don't have any human data in non-melanoma tumor types, can you talk about animal data?
I'm trying to obviously think about what Phase 3 trials you may be starting in 2023 with that
product? Thank you.
A - `Dean Y. Li, Executive Vice President and President, Merck Research Laboratories `
Thank you very much. So you're speaking about the wonderful partnership that we have with
Moderna in the personalized cancer vaccine. I just want to preface everything. What we've
released is top-line data in melanoma. That data will be presented sometime in the near term
where we present the data that we have for melanoma. And we have work to do to move that
into Phase 3. So I -- we have a lot of work to do just in melanoma. I'm not going to speak ahead
of what human data we have outside of that, but I would say two things that are really important.
One is, one can watch which of the tumors have sensitivity to an immune approach and one can
watch about the clinical development with KEYTRUDA to sort of map out where you would think
about doing that.
The second issue that I would emphasize is that when we're talking about an IO-IO strategy,
which often people speak about. I view this personalized neoantigen therapy as an IO-IO strategy
with KEYTRUDA. And the reason I want to emphasize that is, there is a view that we are
beginning to develop that IO-IO strategies may be especially useful in early cancer stages, and
you see that in our interest in our combination projects related to checkpoint inhibitors, but also in
relationship to personalized neoantigen therapies. And so we think that, that around that we are
going to advance and the critical component for us to be able to advance that is to advance
KEYTRUDA as a monotherapy in those indications, because it creates a base for us to actually do
these clinical trials.
A - `Peter Dannenbaum, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Great. Thank you, Tim. Next question please, Kelly?
Operator
Our next question comes from `Geoff Meacham, Bank of America from Bank of America. Geoff, your line is open.
Q - `Geoff Meacham, Bank of America `
Great. Good morning, guys. Thanks for the question. Dean, on subcu KEYTRUDA, can you talk
about the cadence of data this year? And what you're ultimately looking for from a risk benefitperspective as you evaluate different technologies? And Rob, I wasn't sure where this program
ranks and kind of your strategic priorities across IO? Thank you.
A - `Dean Y. Li, Executive Vice President and President, Merck Research Laboratories `
So thank you very much for that question. I think it's on we'll be -- when we talk about starting 10
to 15 Phase 3 clinical trials just in oncology, this subcu program is a critical component to that, and
we will be starting those Phase 3s this year. What are we seeking to achieve? I've talked about
the early cancer space. The early cancer space I think is really important just from a medical
standpoint of where we can intact really the outcomes of patients, we can remarkably improve
that.
If you're going to go in the early space, whether it's neoadjuvant or adjuvant, from my clinical
training, working with lung cancer doctors and oncologist, our ability to limit the need for
individuals to constantly come to infusion centers is very important, and we need to have the
scientific innovation to do that. In doing that, we have to think carefully about how do we give as
much optionality cu three weeks, cu six weeks in that subcu regimen, and that's what we're trying
to drive to in our Phase 3 trials. Rob, did you want to answer anything else?
A - `Robert M. Davis, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I appreciate the question, Geoff. I think Dean covered it well. This is a very important part of
our overall strategy as we think about moving the earlier lines of therapy and then to drive
convenience and access for patients, which is -- it's very important. So it's meaningful and it's
something we're going to pursue as fast as we can.
A - `Peter Dannenbaum, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Geoff. Next question please, Kelly.
Operator
Next question comes from `Mohit Bansal, Wells Fargo from Wells Fargo. Mohit, your line is open.
Q - `Mohit Bansal, Wells Fargo `
Great. Thank you very much for taking my question. I think, I have a big particular question
regarding IO-IO combinations and the development strategyies there. Because the common
criticism is that many of these big Phase 3 studies were started with -- after less than robust
Phase 2 data, and that's why they failed to show benefit in Phase 3. I mean, looking at your data
in Phase 2, they are single-arm data as well. So can you just help us understand what gives you
confidence that this is the right strategy to move forward? And wouldn't it be better to do some
kind of Phase 2 trial where you are -- you have pembro as a control? Thank you.
A - `Dean Y. Li, Executive Vice President and President, Merck Research Laboratories `
Yes, thank you very much. I'll just emphasize that as a general rule, the way that I have begun to
develop my view of IO-IO strategies is that IO-IO strategies are very important to pursue. I think
that IO-IO strategies plus other therapies that kill cancers may be especially important in the
metastatic. But IO-IO strategies in the early stage could be quite impactful. And so as I've just
said, we have advanced our IO-IO strategy. We've advanced it with TGIT, CTLA4 and LAG3, so
another component part that I would just say is, I don't know that there's one single addition to
KEYTRUDA that will have as -- the breadth of KEYTRUDA.So we've been a little bit selective there. And I think the movement of IO-IO not just in the
metastatic space, but especially in the early space will become important. And the ability to do
that requires your first IO of that IO-IO to be approved in the early space. And that is why we are
so excited about moving into early spaces with KEYTRUDA, because that allows us to execute in
an IO-IO strategy in early-stage cancer.
A - `Peter Dannenbaum, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Mohit. Next question please, Kelly.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Chris Schott, JPMorgan from JPMorgan. Chris, your line is open.
Q - `Chris Schott, JPMorgan `
Great. Thanks very much. I think you mentioned that you're looking to review share repo and it
does -- it seem like maybe Rob some of your recent business development commentary has
been skewed towards smaller deals or collaborations. So can you just put into context what you
view as an appropriate level of leverage for Merck? And should we be thinking about kind of cash
generation beyond that level as maybe going towards repo going forward? And I think just
slipping in really quick second one. Just help me on FX, I think you're talking about 2% headwind,
most of your peers aren't seeing much given the recent weakening of the dollar. Just are there
any currencies that stand out we should be keeping in mind there? Thanks so much.
A - `Caroline Litchfield, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
So Chris, this is Caroline. First to talk to share repurchase. As we've stated previously, it's our goal
as a company to deploy our cash first and foremost behind the business opportunities we have
within the company, as well as augment that with business development. We have turned on the
share repurchase program given the strength of our business and our balance sheet. But we'll be
ensuring we have ample capacity to pursue business development, which is the higher priority
and is a better generator of growth and value creation.
We have a portfolio of CDs that we are reviewing, and we will continue to do so and hope to
have news that we'll be sharing in the future. So priority remains CD, invest in the business, but to
the extent there is excess cash, we will return that to shareholders through the share buybacks.
We will maintain an appropriate leverage for our company. We are very comfortable operating at
the credit rating we are at, and would expect to sustain that kind of level as we go forward.
From a foreign exchange perspective, in 2022, we were extremely successful as a company in
blunting the impact of foreign exchange with our revenue hedging program. The underlying
impact of foreign exchange to our business in 2022 was approximately 6% on the top line, 10%
on the bottom line. But with our effective hedging program, which brought revenue on the other
revenue line of approximately $800 million that blunted the impact to 4% on the top and 4% on
the bottom.
As you rightly note, as we look at 2023, we expect the underlying impact of foreign exchange will
be around 1 percentage point on the top and the bottom line. What is impacting the guidance
that we've given is we obviously don't expect as significant hedge gains in 2023, which means
that the overall impact from foreign exchange year-over-over is expected to be 2% on the top
and 4% on the bottom.A - `Peter Dannenbaum, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Great. Thank you, Chris. Next question please, Kelly.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Terence Flynn, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Terence, your line is open.
Q - `Terence Flynn, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thanks so much for taking the questions. I know you guys typically don't give product-level
guidance, Caroline. But I was wondering if you can speak at a high level about your vaccine
franchise this year? Obviously, you have new capacity coming on for GARDASIL, but you also
talked about the pediatric opportunity for VAXNEUVANCE. So just wondering how we should think
about those this year? And then one follow-up for Dean on sotatercept. I know you're talking to
the FDA now. Are you still confident that that single trial will be sufficient for approval or is there a
possibility you could need data from the other ongoing studies? Thank you.
A - `Caroline Litchfield, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you for this questions. So the guidance that we've provided for 2023 is underpinned by
very strong revenue growth of 7% to 10% when you exclude the impact of LAGEVRIO and foreign
exchange. The drivers of that growth are our key pillars of oncology where we expect continued
impacts of patients and growth, given the portfolio of indications we have in KEYTRUDA, Lynparza
and Lenvima. Vaccines, as you rightly note, driven by an acceleration expected in the growth of
GARDASIL as we have new supply coming online, as well as an acceleration in our VAXNEUVANCE
performance, especially given the strong data we have for the pediatric setting.
And we expect continued growth, strong growth in our animal health business. There's some
headwinds against that, that we talked about with LAGEVRIO, with foreign exchange and with an
increased level of pricing expected, especially in Europe, due to changes to B tax scheme in UK
and not in Germany. But overall, very confident in the underlying growth of our business and good
to oncology vaccines and animal health.
A - `Dean Y. Li, Executive Vice President and President, Merck Research Laboratories `
Yes. So again, March 6 clinical trial data for sotatercept will be more fully discussed. I think it will be
very impactful data and I have no indication at this point that we will need a readout from any
other trial from a clinical standpoint to support our filing to the FDA for sotatercept.
A - `Peter Dannenbaum, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Terrance. Next question please, Kelly.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Colin Bristow, UBS of UBS. Colin, your line is open.
Q - `Colin Bristow, UBS `
Hey, good morning and thanks for taking the questions. I guess, I'll piggyback on a couple of the
others. On TIGIT we've obviously seen some competitive data recently, and then we have some
Phase 3 competitor read out this year. Just what is your level of enthusiasm this class currently,
and just what underpins that in terms of the data we've seen? And then just second onGARDASIL. Are you able to give any more granularity on the timing and levels of additional supply
that will be coming online with respect to new manufacturing facility? Thank you.
A - `Dean Y. Li, Executive Vice President and President, Merck Research Laboratories `
Yes. Well, thank you for that question. In relationship to TIGIT, I mean, we're very confident on our
molecule, as I've said, we have nine ongoing five Phase 3 trials, pushing the boundaries of what
pembro can do or PD-1 can do with another IO agent has been something that's very important
for the field. And the way that I can simply answer your question about the confidence in the
molecule is, we just opened an additional KeyVibe study, a Phase 3 study in the earlier stages of
cancer for this IO-IO combination.
A - `Caroline Litchfield, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
And for GARDASIL, we as you know have driven productivity in the existing manufacturing facilities
we have, and we have two new facilities coming online over the course of '23, '24. So it will be a
progressive ramp. But I'll reiterate we're expecting an acceleration in our growth during 2023.
A - `Peter Dannenbaum, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Great. Thank you, Colin. Next question please, Kelly.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Umer Raffat, Evercore ISI from Evercore. Umer, your line is open.
Q - `Umer Raffat, Evercore ISI `
Hi, guys. Thank for taking my question. There's a story in New York Times last week, which
mentions Merck has a patent estate of 180 patents on KEYTRUDA. And I'm curious since your 10-
K only points to the earliest patent expiry date of 2028, can you speak to the types of patents
encompassed in this 180 patent estate? And is it reasonable to assume that your true patent
estate on KEYTRUDA goes well past 2035? Thank you.
A - `Dean Y. Li, Executive Vice President and President, Merck Research Laboratories `
Yes, so I would just want to elevate the question a little bit. The focus of what we're trying to do
is, we're trying to drive the concept of inhibition of checkpoint inhibitors can really have a
profound effect throughout cancers in all stages and all tumor types. We can't talk about expand
into different tissue types and stages, deepen in combination and extend with routes of delivery,
routes of administration and frequency. And these innovations are critically important to make
sure that this life-saving sort of treatment is available and we are confident in those innovations
of providing benefit to patients and we have filed, where appropriate, intellectual property for
that.
A - `Peter Dannenbaum, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Umer. Last question please, Kelly.
Operator
Our last question comes from `Steve Scala, Cowen and Company from Cowen. Steve, you line is open.
Q - `Steve Scala, Cowen and Company `Thank you. Novartis said yesterday that it believes the treatment of cardiovascular disease is
moving towards infrequently administered injectables as opposed to orals citing very poor
compliance with orals. They probably have a good point because the Merck PCSK9 could be
associated with GI issues and other issues, which may make oral delivery a challenge. So I assume
you disagree is that because indeed your oral PCSK9 is very well tolerated and clean or do you
disagree for other reasons? Thank you.
A - `Dean Y. Li, Executive Vice President and President, Merck Research Laboratories `
We'll be talking about the detailed data from the PCSK9. We believe that it's very clean. But I'll
just step back. As a cardiologist who trained in late 80s and 1990s, the ability to have an oral drug
that lowered LDL cholesterol was impactful for the world. Yes, every oral drug regardless of what
therapy it is, has a compliance, sort of it's very important to maintain compliance. What we're
trying to do is to create the most LDL cholesterol lowering pill ever made that does not require
constant interactions with the healthcare system. We think that, that access is actually one that's
very important, not just in the U.S., but also globally. And this is personally speaking as someone
who practiced as early -- as recently as five years ago. If I had an oral PCSK9 LDL lowering pill
back then, I would be prescribing it with the other three to four oral pills that I'm prescribing an
individual.
A - `Peter Dannenbaum, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Steve. And thank you everybody for your thoughtful questions. Please follow-up with
me and the IR team if you have anything additional, and we look forward to staying in touch. Take
care.
Operator
That concludes today's call. Thank you for participating. You may disconnect at this time.