Q4 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Welcome to the Merck and Company Q4 Sales and Earnings Conference Call. (Operator
Instructions). I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. `Peter Dannenbaum, Vice-President Investor Relations, Vice-President,
Investor Relations. Sir, you may begin.
`Peter Dannenbaum, Vice-President Investor Relations `
Thank you. Ivy. And good morning, everyone. Welcome to Merck's 4th-quarter 2023 conference
call. Speaking on today's call will be Rob Davis, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Caroline
Litchfield, Chief Financial Officer; and Dr.Dean Li, President of Merck Research Labs.
Before we get started, I'd like to point out a few items. You will see that we have items in our
GAAP results, such as acquisition-related charges, restructuring costs and certain other items. You
should note that we have excluded these from our non-GAAP results and provide a reconciliation
in our press release. I would like to remind you that some of the statements that we make today
may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe-Harbor provision
of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such statements are made based on the current beliefs of Merck's management and are subject
to significant risks and uncertainties. If our underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or
uncertainties materialize, actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-
looking statements.Our SEC filings, including Item 1A and the 2022 10-K identify certain risk factors and cautionary
statements that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those
projected in any of our forward-looking statements made this morning. Merck undertakes no
obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements.
During today's call, a slide presentation will accompany our speakers' prepared remarks. These
slides, along with the earnings release, today's prepared remarks and our SEC filings are all
posted to the Investor Relations section of Merck's website. With that, I'd like to turn the call over
to Rob.
`Robert M Davis, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Peter. Good morning and thank you for joining today's call. 2023 was another very strong
year for Merck. I'm extremely pleased by the progress we've made to develop and deliver
transformative therapies and vaccines that will help save and improve lives around the world.
We reached more than 500 million people with our medicines last year alone, over half of which
were through donations. We also made substantial investments in research and development in
our ongoing effort to discover and bring forward to patients the next-generation of impactful
innovations.
Over $30 billion in total, including the cost of certain acquisitions and collaborations. As we move
forward, I'm confident that our strong momentum will continue, underpinned by the unwavering
dedication of our talented global team. We're realizing the benefits of our sustained focus on key
strategic priorities.
The excellence of our commercial and operational execution enables us to deliver tangible value
in the short-term, while we invest in new innovations and strengthen our pipeline for the long-
term. In 2023, we advanced important clinical programs and augmented our pipeline with
promising business development, such as the acquisition of Prometheus and our collaboration
with Daiichi Sankyo.
Guided by our science led strategy, I'm confident that the focused and disciplined business
decisions we make, and the actions we take, will lead to sustainable benefits for the patients we
serve and long-term growth and value for our shareholders.
Turning to our results and initial outlook for 2024, we delivered excellent underlying growth in
2023, reflecting robust demand for our innovative portfolio. I'm pleased to share that we're
expecting continued strong growth in 2024, driven by demand for our key products, which
Caroline will speak to momentarily.
Turning to the progress we're making in research. We're currently pursuing programs across a
more diverse set of therapeutic areas with high unmet need and across more modalities than in
any time in recent memory. This year, we will remain keenly focused on advancing our broad and
diverse pipeline, which includes two launches that will address critical health needs and have
blockbuster commercial opportunity.
In cardiometabolic, we're very excited by the anticipated FDA action on our application for
Sotatercept in the United States, which we believe has the potential to transform the treatment
journey for many patients suffering from pulmonary arterial hypertension. Our commercial and
manufacturing teams are fully prepared with a strong uptake, we expect.
Sotatercept is an important component of our growing cardiometabolic pipeline, which wefiling for V116. If approved, V116 would be the first vaccine specifically designed to address the
majority of invasive pneumococcal disease in adults, ages 65 and older.
Based on its compelling profile, V116 has the potential to become an important new preventive
option for adults, and we believe it can achieve majority market-share in this setting. We look
forward to a potential approval in June. And in oncology, we continue to expand into additional
tumor types and earlier stages of certain cancers, as well as progress our increasingly broad
pipeline of novel candidates.
We have achieved substantial diversification with a dramatically expanded set of late-stage
programs, which Dean will speak to. I'm confident that Merck is well-positioned to provide
important innovation to patients and sustain its leadership in oncology well into the future.
I know Dean and his team are energized by our progress and are prepared to build on the
success we've had in 2023 to further advance Merck's pipeline and bring transformative
innovation to patients this year and beyond. In summary, our science led strategy, which keeps
the patient at the center of everything we do is delivering important advancements and helping
us build a sustainable growth engine for our company.
We've made considerable progress over the past year in advancing and expanding our pipeline,
which has resulted in substantially increased long-term commercial opportunities. We've taken
meaningful steps to diversify and position ourselves for sustained leadership in oncology, while
also building one of our deepest and broadest pipelines across discovery and development in
our recent history outside of oncology, and notably, in cardiometabolic and immunology.
Further, we also expect to benefit from promising late-stage programs across our vaccines,
neurosciences, HIV and animal health pipelines. A robust set of early phase programs and the
potential to add exciting innovation through future science led business development.
As a result, we are increasingly confident that we're well-positioned to drive patient impact and
value-creation this year and well into the next decade. I would again like to thank our global teams
for their commitment to strong research, commercial and operational execution.
With a concerted focus on achieving continued excellence, I'm very confident in our ability to
deliver short and long-term stakeholder value. I look-forward to providing future updates on our
progress and impact.
With that. I will turn the call over to Caroline.
`Caroline Litchfield, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Rob. Good morning. 2023 was another impactful year for our company. We delivered
strong revenue growth of 12%, excluding Lagevrio and foreign-exchange. Growth was driven by
robust performance across oncology, vaccines and animal health. We remain confident in our
ability to continue to deliver strong results in the near-term, while making disciplined investments
in innovative science, which will drive long-term value for patients and shareholders.
Now turning to our 4th-quarter results. Total company revenues were $14.6 billion, excluding the
impact from Lagevrio and foreign-exchange, the business delivered strong growth of 13%. The
following revenue comments will be on an ex-exchange basis. Our Human Health business
sustained its momentum, excluding Lagevrio, growth was 14% driven by oncology and vaccines.
Sales in our Animal Health business increased 4%, driven by companion animal products.Turning to the performance of our key brands. In oncology, sales of KEYTRUDA grew 22% to $6.6
billion. Global growth was driven by increased uptake in earlier-stage cancers, including triple-
negative breast cancer and renal cell carcinoma, with particularly strong growth in international
markets due to the more recent launches of these important indications. Growth was also driven
by the strong global needs of patients with metastatic disease.
We continue to be encouraged by the positive impact our recent approvals are having on certain
patients with earlier-stage, non-small cell lung cancer. In the US, we have made considerable
progress in helping to improve drug treatment rates and have further increased our leadership
position in the adjuvant setting.
We also received positive feedback from healthcare providers, following the recent launch of
KEYNOTE A39 in advanced urothelial cancer. With this approval, KEYTRUDA, in combination with
PADCEV, is now indicated for first-line advanced urothelial cancer patients regardless of cisplatin-
eligibility.
Based on the outstanding clinical data, we believe this regimen has the potential to transform the
standard-of-care for these patients. Alliance revenue from Lynparza and Lenvima grew 8% and
5% respectively. Welireg sales grew 78% to $72 million, driven by increased uptake in VHL
associated tumors.
We are excited by the opportunity to provide a new treatment option for certain patients with
previously treated advanced renal cell carcinoma, following the recent approval based on the
LITESPARK-005 study. Our vaccines portfolio delivered excellent growth led by GARDASIL, which
increased 27% to $1.9 billion, driven by global demand, particularly in China.
In the US, GARDASIL sales benefited from CDC purchasing patterns. Vaxneuvance sales grew to
$176 million, driven by ongoing launches in Europe, and continued uptake of the pediatric
indication in the US. As a reminder, 4th-quarter 2022 sales in the US benefited from inventory
stocking in preparation for the pediatric launch.
In our Hospital Acute Care portfolio, Bridion sales declined 3%. Increased market-share among
neuromuscular blockade reversal agents in the US was more than offset by the impact of generic
entrants in international markets, particularly in Europe. Our Animal Health business delivered
another solid quarter with sales increasing 4%.
Companion Animal sales grew 12%, driven by the Bravecto line of products due to strong
underlying demand and timing of purchases. Livestock sales were flat, reflecting favorable price
actions offset by the timing of ruminant product purchases. I will now walk you through the
remainder of our P&L and my comments will be on a non-GAAP basis.
Gross margin was 77.2%, an increase of 1.5 percentage points, largely due to favorable product
mix, including a benefit from lower sales of Lagevrio. Operating expenses increased to $11.6
billion, including a $5.5 billion one-time charge related to our collaboration with Daiichi Sankyo.
Excluding this charge, operating expenses grew 8%, reflecting disciplined investments in support
of our expansive early and late-phase pipeline and key growth drivers. Other expense was $174
million. Our tax-rate was approximately 114%, which reflects the impact of the charge related to
Daiichi Sankyo.
Excluding this charge, the underlying tax-rate was 13.1%. Taken together, earnings per share was
$0.03, which includes a $1.69 negative impact from the charge related to Daiichi Sankyo.Now turning to our 2024 non-GAAP guidance. We expect another year of strong growth, driven
by key marketed products and we'll begin to benefit from the anticipated launches of impactful
new products, such as Sotatercept and V116, we project revenue to be between $62.7 billion and
$64.2 billion, representing growth of 4% to 7%. This growth includes a negative impact from
foreign-exchange of approximately 2% using mid January rates. The headwind is primarily due to
the devaluation of the Argentine peso, which we expect will largely be offset by inflation related
price increases consistent with market practice. Our gross margin assumption is approximately
80.5%, which includes the benefit from reduced royalties paid on KEYTRUDA and GARDASIL.
Operating expenses are assumed to be between $25.1 billion and $26.1 billion, which includes an
approximate $650 million one time charge related to the announced acquisition of Harpoon
Therapeutics. As a reminder, our guidance does not assume additional significant potential
business development transactions. Other expense is expected to be approximately $200
million. We assume a full-year tax-rate between 14.5% and 15.5%. We assume approximately 2.54
billion shares outstanding.
Taken together, we expect EPS of $8.44 to $8.59. This range includes an approximate $0.26 per
share charge related to the planned acquisition of Harpoon Therapeutics, which is not tax-
deductible and the negative impact from foreign-exchange of approximately $0.25 using mid-
January rates, including the impact from Argentina.
Now turning to capital allocation, where our strategy remains unchanged. We will prioritize
investments in our business to drive near and long-term growth. We are excited by the significant
progress our team has made to advance and augment our innovative pipeline in 2023. In 2024,
we will increase this investment, including the initiation of more late-stage clinical trials across
multiple novel candidates, each of which has significant potential to address important unmet
medical needs. We remain committed to our dividend and plan to increase it over-time. Business
development remains a high-priority.
We maintain ample capacity, given our strong investment-grade credit rating and cash-flow, to
pursue additional, science-driven, value enhancing transactions going-forward. We will continue to
execute a modest level of share repurchases.
To conclude, we enter 2024 with confidence in the outlook for our business in the near and long-
term. Global demand for our innovative medicines and vaccines remains strong and we are
excited about our expansive pipeline.
We are in a position of financial and operational strength as a direct result of our long standing
commitment to science in order to improve the lives of the patients we serve. Our continued
investments in innovation and excellent execution will enable us to deliver value to patients,
customers and shareholders well into the future. With that, I'd now like to turn the call over to
Dean.
`Dean Y. Li, President `
Thank you, Caroline. Good morning. Today, I will provide notable R&D update since our last
earnings call, and a brief summary of 2023 accomplishments. Momentum in the pipeline remains
strong. Progress is spanning both early and late phase programs across multiple therapeutic
areas. Starting with oncology, we are diversifying our portfolio and executing on our strategy,
which is broadly based on three strategic pillars; immuno-oncology, precision molecular targeting
and tissue targeting.In Immuno-oncology, we remain committed to the development of KEYTRUDA and further
transforming cancer care to address the needs of certain patients. In the fourth quarter, we
received approvals from both the FDA and the European Commission in two gastrointestinal
indications. One, in combination with chemotherapy for the first line treatment of adults with
locally advanced unresectable or metastatic HER2 negative gastric or gastroesophageal junction,
adenocarcinoma based on KEYNOTE-859. And another in combination with gemcitabine and
cisplatin for the treatment of patients with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic biliary
tract cancer based on KEYNOTE-966.
As we continue to harness the potential of KEYTRUDA, we have an increased focus on earlier
stages of disease, where we believe timely effective intervention may significantly improve
patient outcomes. Last month, we announced FDA approval for KEYTRUDA in combination with
chemo radiotherapy for the treatment of FIGO stage-III through 4A cervical cancer, based on the
Phase-III KEYNOTE-A18 trial. This is an important advancement and provides a new option that
has potential to become the standard of care.
Today, with all the research conducted with checkpoint inhibitors, the only studies that have
demonstrated statistically significant overall survival benefit in earlier stage cancers are
KEYTRUDA based regimen. KEYNOTE-671, as part of the neoadjuvant, followed by post-surgery
adjuvant treatment regimen for certain patients with resectable non-small cell lung cancer, and
KEYNOTE-564, as a post-surgery adjuvant treatment regimen for certain patients with renal cell
carcinoma. Since the approval of KEYNOTE-671 in October, it is notable that the American Cancer
Society released guidance, recommending that certain individuals with significant smoking history
undergo an annual low-dose CT scan.
The guidance also expands the age range for lung cancer screening. We look-forward to the
opportunity to help impact patients and support the identification of more patients at risk.
Additional data from KEYNOTE-564, demonstrating an overall survival benefit, were presented at
the ASCO GU conference last week. Detailed findings from KEYNOTE-123 evaluating KEYTRUDA
for the adjuvant treatment of patients with localized muscle invasive and locally advanced
resectable urothelial carcinoma, demonstrating a disease free survival benefit versus observation
were also presented at ASCO GU.
Also in the earlier-stage setting, along with our partner Moderna, we announced three-year
recurrent free survival and distant metastasis free survival data for our individualized neoantigen
therapy V940 in combination with KEYTRUDA for the adjuvant treatment of Stage III and IV
melanoma, following complete resection. We are encouraged by the durability of the responses
observed and the potential for this regimen to impact patients earlier in their diagnosis. The
Phase-III trials in the adjuvant setting for certain patients with melanoma and non-small cell lung
cancer are actively enrolling.
Progress continues in precision oncology. The FDA approval for Welireg, our HIF-2 alpha inhibitor
for the treatment of adults with advanced RCC, following a PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitor and VEGF TKI,
marks the first drug approved in a new therapeutic class for eligible patients with advanced renal
cell carcinoma in nearly a decade and builds on the 2021 approval for the treatment of adults with
certain Von Hippel-Lindau disease associated tumors.
Additional Phase-III studies for Welireg, in combination with KEYTRUDA and/or Lenvatinib, for the
treatment of certain types of renal cell carcinoma in the advanced and adjuvant settings are
ongoing. And finally, moving to the tissue targeting space. Together with Astellas and Seagen,
now Pfizer, we announced the FDA approval for KEYTRUDA in combination with Padcev andNectin-4 targeting ADC, for the first line treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic
urothelial cancer based on results from KEYNOTE-A39.
These results demonstrated a superior overall survival benefit versus gemcitabine plus cisplatin
or carboplatin and extend our pioneering work in combining KEYTRUDA with chemotherapy, as
well as reinforcing the value of an ADC to enable targeted delivery of chemotherapy to the
tumor tissue.
Following the announcement of our collaboration with Daiichi Sankyo in October, we are pleased
to receive priority review from the FDA for MK-1022, or Patritumab Deruxtecan, our investigational
fully humanized anti HER3 ADC for patients with advanced EGFR mutated non-small cell lung
cancer, previously treated with two or more systemic therapy, the agency has set a target action
date of June 26. Through our agreement with Kelun and Daiichi Sankyo, as well as our own
discovery programs, we have established a robust pipeline of tissue targeting ADC. And the
recently-announced acquisition of Harpoon Therapeutics, provides the opportunity to help
complement and strengthen our approach by providing a portfolio of novel T-Cell engagers.
The most significant of which is HPN-328, an investigational delta like ligand 3 targeting T-Cell
engagers being evaluated in small-cell lung cancer and neuroendocrine tumors. Our strong
diverse portfolio of immuno-oncology, precision molecular and tissue targeting agents, positions
us well to having profound impact on even more patients long into the future.
Next, to our vaccine pipeline. We are making notable advancements with our population specific
vaccine program for pneumococcal disease. The FDA has accepted for priority review, the new
Biologics License Application for V116, our 21-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine, specifically
designed for adults, supported by results for multiple Phase-III clinical trials, evaluating V116 in
both pneumococcal vaccine naive and vaccine experienced adult patient population.
Results from STRIDE-3 trial were presented at the World Vaccine Congress West Coast in
November. And additional data from STRIDE-3, as well as STRIDE study four, five and six will be
presented at the International Society of Pneumonia and Pneumococcal Disease Congress in
March.
If approved, as Rob noted, V116 would be the first pneumococcal conjugate vaccine, specifically
designed to address the serotypes responsible for approximately 83% of invasive pneumococcal
disease in adults, 65 years of age and older, according to CDC data from 2018 to 2021.
Importantly, V116 includes eight unique serotypes, which account for 30% of disease, according to
the same CDC data. These serotypes are not covered by currently licensed pneumococcal
vaccine option. The FDA has set a target action date of June 17.
Turning to programs in the cardiometabolic disease pipeline, we are eager to bring sotatercept
to patients as an important treatment options for pulmonary arterial hypertension. The FDA has
set a target action date of March 26.
Beyond data from the STELLAR trial, we have the Phase-III Zenith and Hyperion studies which are
evaluating sotatercept in patients with more advanced disease and those earlier on their disease
journey. In addition, the Phase-II Cadence trial, will evaluate WHO Group two pulmonary
hypertension, focused on a type of left heart disease.
As we close-out 2023, it is important to highlight our significant progress and execution across
therapeutic areas and modalities, as well as multiple business development transactions. In the
year, we have more than 25 regulatory approvals in major markets. We also initiated over 20
Phase-III studies across multiple new classes of assets, including in oncology with Bomedemstat,our LSD1 inhibitor in essential thrombocytopenia, nemtabrutinib, our BTK inhibitor in first-line
chronic lymphocytic leukemia of small lymphocytic lymphoma. MK-2870, our TROP2 ADC in
collaboration with Kelun in non-small cell lung cancer and endometrial carcinoma. MK 5684, our
CYP11A1 inhibitor in collaboration with Orion in metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer. And
V940 in collaboration with Moderna for the adjuvant treatment of certain types of melanoma and
non-small cell lung cancer.
Also, in immunology with tulisokibart in ulcerative colitis. Finally, in cardiometabolic disease with
multiple trials for MK 0616 in hypercholesterolemia.
As a result of the increasing depth and breadth of our pipeline, we are planning to initiate an
even greater number of Phase-III trials in 2024. Considerable credit goes to my colleagues across
the organization for their hard work and unwavering dedication. We are executing on our science
led strategy and look-forward to providing further updates on our progress throughout the year.
And now, I will turn the call back to Peter.
`Peter Dannenbaum, Vice-President Investor Relations `
Thank you, Dean. Ivy, we're now ready to take questions. If analysts could please limit themselves
to one question today in order to get to as many questioners as possible, we'd appreciate it.
Thank you.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions). Our first question will come from the line of `Umer Raffat, Analyst, Evercore ISI from Evercore
ISI. Please go ahead.
Q - `Umer Raffat, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Hi guys, thanks for taking my question. I know there's a trial due for you guys later this year,
KEYFORM-007 trial, that's the LAG-3 with pembrolizumab in colorectal cancer. Just curious how
you're thinking about risk profile and the odds of success heading into that? And if there's been
any interim OS analysis? Thank you very much.
A - `Dean Y. Li, President `
I'll take this. Umer, thank you very much for that question. I mean, just to recognize that in MSI-
high, we have a strong presence with pembro there. The larger group in CRC or colorectal
cancer is in the MSS population. At this point, there's not really been any checkpoint inhibitor
that's shown dramatic impact in MFS CRC.
So our interest in driving pembro plus LAG-3 in that is to demonstrate that a checkpoint inhibitor
could have a meaningful impact in MSS CRC. If we should get a positive signal in that, clearly, we
would use that as a beachhead to expand and extend the role of checkpoint inhibitors in MSS
CRC, which is a place that requires a lot of more innovation. In terms of specific interim analysis
on this, we generally try to keep that when there is a -- when there is data that's worth sharing,
that's when we share it. Thanks.
A - `Peter Dannenbaum, Vice-President Investor Relations `
Just real quick, just quick microphone check. Can you hear us? Yes, we're muted.Operator
No, we can hear you.
A - `Peter Dannenbaum, Vice-President Investor Relations `
Oh, you can? Okay. Well, we were showing that we're muted. Sorry.
Operator
No, you're fine. We can hear you loud and clear.
A - `Peter Dannenbaum, Vice-President Investor Relations `
All right. Great. Next question please, Ivy.
Operator
Next, we'll go to the line of `Trung Huynh, Analyst, UBS from UBS. Please go-ahead.
Q - `Trung Huynh, Analyst, UBS `
Good morning, guys. Thanks for taking my question. So for sotatercept, we noticed the Hyperion
study primary completion date had now moved to August 26. It was November 29 on
clinicaltrials.gov, that's three years earlier. Just could you just let us know the reason for that
change?
And if I could sneak one in, just is there a place to transition sotatercept from inpatient clinic
administration to self-administration? Thanks very much.
A - `Dean Y. Li, President `
So let me take the first question. So there is a series of trials in relationship to sotatercept. So the
March date that we talk about is for a potential decision by the FDA for approval based on the
STELLAR trial. And we think in the second-half of 2024, we may be in a position in relationship to
the EU.
We have other trials, as you point out, especially Phase three trials and they are Zenith and they
are Hyperion. Those two are based on events. So it's a tracking of events that sort of define
when those happen. So, Zenith, I think is now like September 2025, and Hyperion's August 2026.
So, that's just been event driven.
In relationship to how best to treat patients, well, we're in conversations with the FDA in
relationship to where is the best place for patients to be treated. But I'll just highlight that we
have an image of an auto-injector moving very fast through our pipeline. So that might give you a
sense of where we think this may end-up.
A - `Peter Dannenbaum, Vice-President Investor Relations `
Right. Thank you. Next question please, Ivy.
Operator
Next, we'll go to the line of `Daina Graybosch, Analyst, Leerink Partners from Leerink Partners. Please go-ahead.Q - `Daina Graybosch, Analyst, Leerink Partners `
Hi, thank you for the question. I have one on oncology for one of the new assets going into
Phase-III, the Orion MK 5684. I wonder if you could talk more about that asset, and what gives
you confidence that it will demonstrate broad benefit in prostate cancer in addition to the
patients of the AR LBD mutations?
And can you confirm the stat design of the two Omaha studies will prioritize a hierarchy that
statistically look at the mutation segment first?
A - `Dean Y. Li, President `
Yes. So, just so that everyone is looking at this asset in the same way, there have been critical
medicines that ablate androgen fueled growth in prostate cancer. And the interest in this
CYP11A1, is it's very-high upstream, and we think that it could be an important contribution. Clearly,
we're in, as you point out, we're interested both broadly, but especially in the specific mutation
patients. And so, we will be advancing those trials to look at that sub-population, as well as more
broad populations.
In terms of the statistical sort of analysis in that, that's something that I think probably would be
best sort of discussed with our clinical teams at a different time.
A - `Peter Dannenbaum, Vice-President Investor Relations `
Thank you, Daina. Next question please.
Operator
Next we'll go to `Carter Gould, Analyst, Barclays from Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `Carter Gould, Analyst, Barclays `
Thank you very much for taking the question. Good morning. Maybe following-up on the
commentary on V116, you talked about potential to reach a majority market-share. What does that
sort of imply around the potential ACIP recommendation or the potential for a catch-up
opportunity in the adult segment?
A - `Dean Y. Li, President `
Yes. So, I'll just -- so again, we're talking about V116. We're talking about FDA potential action in
June 2024, followed by ACIP, followed by MMWR. I think it's in March that we're going to be
presenting STRIDE-3 and 6, and I think the data will be out there.
And as you'll see in that between STRIDE-3 and throughout STRIDE-3, all the way to 6, you'll see
data in relationship to vaccination of those who are naive versus previously vaccinated. And you
will see data in the patient population or the population, that 65, but also in the 50 plus as well.
As that data is digested both by the FDA, but probably very importantly by the ACIP, I think those
data will guide how the ACIP makes their decision.
A - `Peter Dannenbaum, Vice-President Investor Relations `
Great. Anything else? Okay, next question please, Ivy.
OperatorNext, we'll go to the line of `Evan Seigerman, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets from BMO Capital Markets. Please go-ahead.
Q - `Evan Seigerman, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets `
Hi, guys. Thank you so much for taking my question. I was wondering if you could expand on
some of the nuances of your guidance, specifically, do you include meaningful revenues from
sotatercept and V116, I'm assuming their approval at some point this year.
A - `Caroline Litchfield, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you for the question, Evan. This is Caroline. As we've guided for 2024, we're very
confident in the underlying momentum in our business across oncology, across vaccines, across
Animal Health. We also are very excited about the potential launches for sotatercept and V116. For
sotatercept, given the significant clinical data we have and the understanding that there are many
patients that have already been identified who can benefit from sotatercept on top of the
treatments they have, we are expecting a strong launch.
For V116, as Dean just outlined, we'll wait for the FDA approval, the ACIP recommendation, we'll
then expect MMWR to publish and therefore expect to have impact with V116 coming towards the
end of this year.
A - `Peter Dannenbaum, Vice-President Investor Relations `
Great. Thanks, Evan. Next question please, Ivy.
Operator
Next, we'll go to the line of `Terence Flynn, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `Terence Flynn, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Great, thanks so much for taking the question. Competitor recently reported some disappointing
data with their TROP2 ADC in later-line lung. I recognize these TROP2s are all different, given the
technology, the linkers, but does this impact at all your development strategy for your TROP2 in
lung or perhaps increase the need for a biomarker strategy here? Thank you.
A - `Dean Y. Li, President `
Yes, this is Dean. Thanks for that question. So, I'll just step-back, and I think I've said this
previously, especially in lung, it's very important to understand what the standard of care is in that
one would have to beat it in a significant way. In the standard of care in our minds in the late
stages, roughly KEYNOTE-189 and now in the earlier-stage, it's clearly in KEYNOTE-671, both with
clear OS data.
What we have said previously is that we are unclear that any one ADC can have as broad of an
impact as KEYNOTE-189 or 671, and that in order for ADC to have a substantial advantage in
those patient populations, one may need to focus on a biomarker selected patient population.
And so, the data that we saw does not changed our way of thinking. It's the way of thinking that
we've discussed previously. And I would just add that it's really important -- there's also data out
there where people are doing retrospective biomarker data and this. For us to demonstrate true
efficacy in any patient population, we need a biomarker strategy that is prospective and one that
can be easily actionable throughout the world. Thanks.A - `Peter Dannenbaum, Vice-President Investor Relations `
Thank you, Terence. Next question please, Ivy.
Operator
Next, we'll go to the line of Tim Anderson from Wolfe Research. Please go ahead.
Q - `Adam Jolly, Analyst
Hi, thank you for taking our question. This is Adam on for Tim. On GARDASIL a two dose regimen
was recently approved in China. We're wondering if that poses a revenue problem. Potentially, it
doesn't, if it just means that more supply gets spread-out across more people and Merck ends
up-selling just as many doses in total. Can Merck share its perspective here?
A - `Robert M Davis, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Thanks for the question. So, there's actually been Chinese competitors with an offering for
some time actually in the Chinese market, and that market is large. We continue to believe in the
eligible cohorts in just the urban females, which is the tier-one to tier-three cities, is about 200
million, a little over 200 million women.
And so, of that, we think probably about 30% have actually received vaccinations. So you're still
looking at 120 million to 130 million eligible population. As we look at this and as we've seen over-
time, we continue to be very competitive. We're maintaining a vast majority of share in the private
market, and really, you're seeing most of the local competitors go to the lower-tier cities and to a
different population than we've been -- we've been targeting.
So that does not change our view of the growth potential in China. Long-term, obviously, we will
continue to face competition there and we are positioning ourselves to continue to succeed
there, but the approval you're talking about is not changing our view.
A - `Caroline Litchfield, Chief Financial Officer `
The only add, if I may, is we have significant opportunity to protect further females in China. At
the end of 2023, we also submitted to the regulatory authorities, our data on GARDASIL for
males. So we're hopeful to introduce that in the Chinese market in the future.
A - `Peter Dannenbaum, Vice-President Investor Relations `
Great. Thanks, Adam. Next question please.
Operator
Next, we'll go to the line of `Mohit Bansal, Analyst, Wolfe Research from Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.
Q - `Mohit Bansal, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Great. Thank you very much for taking my question and congrats on the progress. Maybe one
question on V116 as well. So Pfizer has recently made comments around adult market shrinking at
this point. So could you comment on how do you see the peak opportunity for V116 in the context
of adult market shrinking and then you taking share from a shrinking market? Thank you.
A - `Robert M Davis, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `Yes, I'll start, and then Caroline can jump-in as well. But, I think as you look at the market size, in
the comments, I don't want to speak to comments that others have made. I think it's also
important to understand that as we bring a vaccine, which brings significant incremental coverage
at 83% versus if you look at PCV20, just as an example as we move closer to, I think about 50%,
so you're looking at significant incremental coverage, which I think can have an impact on how you
think both about catch-up to cover the disease, as Dean noted in his prepared comments. We
have eight serotypes covering 30% of what is causing disease which is unique to us. So we think
that that will have implications, both in terms of catch-ups, as well as potentially to be able to go
for patients 50 and plus versus 65 and plus. So if you take all those things into account, we still
see this as a very large opportunity for us in our view as it's about an $8 billion market in '23. We
anticipated actually growing to be over $10 billion later in the decade.
And with that being -- the pediatric segment of that is about 70%. So we're looking at 30% of
that is what is the adult piece. So, as we see it, this is still a growing market, a good market and
we remain very confident that V116 will both have a majority share and be a meaningful
contributor.
A - `Peter Dannenbaum, Vice-President Investor Relations `
Great. Thanks, Mohit. Next question please.
Operator
Next, we'll go to the line of `Chris Schott, Analyst, JP Morgan from JP Morgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `Chris Schott, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Great. Thanks for the question. Just a bigger-picture question on business development. The
company has obviously been very active over the past few years. And I'm trying to get sense just
kind of size and stage of assets that you consider, just given the current R&D investments you're
making in the asset, and the kind of the amount of capital you're allocating there. So, you're
specifically -- are deals, along the lines of Acceleron or Prometheus, still deals that Merck would
look at and prioritize? Or at this point, are we thinking about maybe earlier-stage assets, that
would be more of the focus? Thanks so much.
A - `Robert M Davis, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, Chris, thanks for the question. Obviously, first, I just want to reinforce the pride I have in what
Dean and the team have been able to do and the meaningful progress we are making, both in
our internal pipeline and what we've been able to do through the business development, which
is, I think in some ways, in a weird way, underlying your question, but. As we sit here today, while I
feel very good about the progress we've made and the growing portfolio, the diverse and deep
portfolio we have in our pipeline, we do continue to believe we need more and we will continue
to prioritize business development. And I would say that our views of deals like Prometheus, like
Acceleron, are still the size of deals we are very interested in, if we can find great assets. So
clearly that's an area of focus.
But also continuing to do smaller deals as well, like what you saw with Harpoon. So it's going to
be a range of deals, but I think as you look in that zero to kind of $15 billion -- $1 billion to $15
billion, it continues to be where we will look-forward. And then, obviously, we've also, I think
shown that not only are we very open to doing acquisition but we see collaboration as an
important tool as well, very similar to what we did with Daiichi Sankyo. So we're going to be
looking at the full suite and including deals that fit those categories.A - `Peter Dannenbaum, Vice-President Investor Relations `
Great. Thanks, Chris. Next question please, Ivy.
Operator
Next, we'll go to the line of `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi from Citi. Please go ahead.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi `
Thank you. I was going to ask you about your expectations for the ACIP recommendation on re-
vaccination of pregnant or vaccinated patients, but I suspect you may not want to share that view.
So instead, maybe I could ask you about the first-line TROP2 SKB non-small cell trial that you're
running in combination with KEYTRUDA.
Some of the recently published academic data suggests that TROP2 internalization is a biomarker
in patients who are primary resistant to PD-1. So it just seems like an odd population to be
exploring the drug in assuming that is a real and not fake signal. And I take completely the caveat
for this retrospective data analysis in other settings.
But given that, it would seem to be more sensible to have a combination with chemo and layering
it on-top. And can you do this, given the profile of the drug in terms of bone-marrow
suppression?
A - `Dean Y. Li, President `
Yes. So, I'll just answer, more broadly in relationship to TROP2 as an ADC and specifically our
compound. One of the things that is extremely useful to us is its adverse effect profile, especially
for lung cancer patients in relationship to lung toxicity is readily manageable. It's quite good a
profile.
In terms of your question about the paper that, I think that you talked about internalization and
this. I think those are interesting and important papers for us to consider, but I think one of the
things that's also important for us to do is to do the clinical experiment and see what the results
are in relationship.
We are confident that TROP2 ADC will have an impact. TROP2 ADC's in breast cancer has had an
impact. And we believe that our TROP2 ADC, especially with the linker payload, will have an
important impact in lung cancer.
And then the question that you have is how do you combine it, do you combine it with chemo, or
do you combine it with PD-1, how do you think through that. I think those are questions that our
clinical team thinks deeply about. But we also think deeply about what line of therapy and also
what the standard of care is. And if you want to move to first-line, standard of care is KEYNOTE-
189 with chemo Pembro basis. So one has to think about how one would advance a TROP2 from
different lines, all the way to first-line. So those considerations come in quite heavily. Thanks.
A - `Peter Dannenbaum, Vice-President Investor Relations `
Thank you, Andrew. Next question please, Ivy.
Operator
Next, we'll go to the line of `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities from Guggenheim Securities. Please go-ahead.Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities `
Thanks very much for the question. So, and congrats on the quarter and the guidance. Can you
just talk a little bit about subcutaneous KEYTRUDA. How you anticipate payers acceptance of this
new delivery modality, as well as potential economic benefit to patients, given the shift from Part-
B to Part-D?
I think there could be some benefits from the updated catastrophic cap, being drivers there. But
struggling in the face of potential biosimilars of KEYTRUDA after 2028 to see how payers would
treat this. Just interested to have a little bit more color on the economic benefits, not just the
benefits to the patients of subcutaneous KEYTRUDA. Thanks so much.
A - `Dean Y. Li, President `
So this is Dean. I'll take the first question and then I'll hand it over to Rob and Caroline, because
the economic question and the payer is also related to innovation that you provide. I just want to
make sure that our way of thinking about something like Pembro with hyaluronidase, given as
subcu is really there's going to be a call for that innovation.
Now, just emphasize, we constantly speak about the earlier-stage cancer. And right now, we have
nine approvals. And as I've said in relationship in the prepared remarks of those approvals, two --
the only two that have checkpoint inhibitors that OS benefit is KEYTRUDA base which is early lung
cancer and RCC.
I actually just came from a meeting speaking to a bunch of thoracic oncologists in this and it's
quite interesting to hear how they speak, for those who are thoracic oncologists, who are linked
to a setting with medical oncologists, they very clearly understand why KEYNOTE-671 peri-
operative as a category one.
In situations where you may have a CT surgeon outside of a major care plan or a care -- a major
medical center. Sometimes you have CT surgeons moonlighting doing lobectomy from the
searching [ph] for that the KEYNOTE-091. And constantly what we hear from the physician and
the provider, and many of them are in the provider systems of all different types, is the need to
have an alternative way to get the KEYTRUDA to them.
Either Q3, Q6, given the regimen. So. I just want to emphasize that the subcu pembro plus
hyaluronidase is an innovation that is going to be demanded and is being demanded by the field.
A - `Robert M Davis, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thanks, Dean. And to the questions on the economics, I think we've commented on this a
little bit in various settings, but as we think about our strategy for bringing this to the market from
a commercial perspective, our view is the quality of life benefits this brings, does demonstrate
and afford us the ability to get a premium price. But we also are very cognizant that any subcu
pembro will have to be considered in the context of Generic IV version. So, we will price our
subcu to drive for volume and to do full conversion, which means we will be looking at prices
really more in-line with where you would see the generic version at a premium that history has
shown is very manageable and expected and covered by payers today, when you look at the
different delivery forms.
So in that sense, we think we will be able to manage this. The whole question of Part B versus
Part-D, we'll have to see how it plays out. As far as the ultimate site of administration. But if it
does end-up being into the Part-D category, which is of reasonable chance, and you are correctthat some of the new coverages that are out there and catastrophic and with the cap, also then
from a patient perspective, should lower the burden they are going to face which we also think
could help with conversion.
A - `Peter Dannenbaum, Vice-President Investor Relations `
All right. Thanks, Seamus. Next question please.
Operator
Next, we'll go to the line of `Geoff Meacham, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities from Bank of America. Please go ahead.
Q - `Geoff Meacham, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities `
Hey guys, good morning and thanks for the question. Caroline, on margins, you highlighted a
benefit from KEYTRUDA and GARDASIL this year, which I think was expected. But looking-forward
is the guidance this year a reasonable target until the future to LOE? I wasn't sure if there's other
drivers going-forward, whether mix could impact margins as well. Thank you.
A - `Caroline Litchfield, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you for the question, Geoff. So, as you all know, our company has made great progress in
expanding operating margin over a number of years. As we look to 2024, we expect operating
margin to improve. And that's really driven by the strength of the topline and mix of revenue by
the roll-off of royalties that we've noted in KEYTRUDA and GARDASIL being disciplined in our
expenses, while we do invest fully behind our expansive pipeline. As we go beyond 2024, we still
point to an operating margin of greater than 40% in 2025, but our focus as a company and as the
team is to really ensure that we are fueling the pipeline supporting the portfolio of products that
we're launching to drive growth into the long-term.
A - `Peter Dannenbaum, Vice-President Investor Relations `
Great. Thanks, Geoff. Next question please.
Operator
Next we'll go to the line of `Steve Scala, Analyst, TD Cowen from TD, Cowen. Please go ahead.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, TD Cowen `
Well, thank you. I believe the Merck RSV monoclonal antibody Phase 2/3 study is registrational and
reads out this year. Is that correct? And assuming positive, how soon could Merck beyond the
market and how might this product be differentiated from by Fortis? It's just a little odd that this
could be a $1 billion opportunity, not that far off, and Merck never talks about it. Thank you.
A - `Dean Y. Li, President `
I really appreciate the question. So I will talk about it. In relationship to the RSV monoclonal
antibody. It's for the near -- the early birth, it's an antibody, its passive immunization and it's for
the pediatric population. This is a single-shot. This is not weight-based. And we believe it has a
longer season in relationship to other choices.
And so, we think it's an important readout. And we're very excited and interested to move on this
RSV monoclonal antibody. I would also emphasize that the New England Journal of Medicine justand we're moving that forward quickly. And then, more broadly, from the IV vaccine, I've said
previously, that I'm very intrigued to see the results of our NRTTI islatravir and our other NRTTI
MK-8527. So that will also be coming out this year. We'll be able to see those. So it is the RSV. It is
the dengue that was just out there and it is the HIV data that we're going to be very interested in
seeing across this year.
A - `Robert M Davis, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And Steve, just to maybe from a commercial perspective build on the question, from a launch
timing perspective, our expectation is that we would be in the market in 2025 and obviously
we're working to be ready for that -- for that season in 2025. And then, from a differentiator for
us, recall that our coverage covers what is the full prevention season for RSV, which is five to six
months. We're a single fixed-dose, not a weight-based administered shot. So for us, those are all
very important things. And the last thing I'd note is the site of action for us is really we think has
low-risk of development of resistance and is different than the competition.
So we actually are very bullish on this. I think we don't talk about it, frankly because we have so
many other good things to talk about, it sometimes gets lost. But it doesn't mean we're not
excited about this and-or dengue, which frankly I still believe dengue, and it's a little bit, obviously
later than this, could be huge for us. So those are things we're excited about. It just reinforces the
breadth of the portfolio we have.
A - `Peter Dannenbaum, Vice-President Investor Relations `
Thank you, Steve. Next question please.
Operator
Next we'll go to the line of `Chris Shibutani, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs. Please go-ahead.
Q - `Chris Shibutani, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you. If I could ask about immunology, essentially a re-entry into that realm with the
Prometheus acquisition, if you could just update us on what we should be expecting to learn? And
also what you find interesting, perhaps, Dean, to further build-out on the immunology platform?
Specifically, the clintrials.gov has the Phase-II maintenance data in UC is enrolling, should we
expect to hear from you on results there? I did not observe something there on Crohn's disease.
What's the update on that program?
And then, in immunology, further, it appeared from the start of the year, a lot of excitement
about different modalities, cell therapies in particular, oral advanced treatments. Share with us
some views on where you think immunology could go to take Merck to be a relevant presence in
the 2030s? Thank you.
A - `Dean Y. Li, President `
That's a great question and an expansive question. So let me just hit in relationship to the TL1A
antibody. We have our ulcerative colitis trial moving forward and that's been listed and that's
moving forward. I think probably the really important thing for me that I look out is getting the
Crohn's disease, the trial moving.
The reason I think it's really important is I'll remind myself that TL1A is in the super TNF family. But
TL1A may be different than run-of-the-mill TNF and its ability to not just dampen inflammation, butaffect fibrosis. So going from ulcerative colitis to Crohn's disease, Crohn's disease has lots of
strictures and that'll be important and it will be also important to look and follow.
I follow our data in TL1A in relationship to lung disease and scleroderma. So that's with that. I
would also emphasize that there are other assets within the partnership or acquisition that we did
with Prometheus, and those compounds, which had already been discussed previously, are
advancing through the pipeline as well.
And then, the other question that you have is, are we interested in other platforms in moving
forward, the answer is absolutely yes. I think you had a question in terms of cell therapy with
immunology. I think there was interesting data there, but as you know, we've -- when we've
looked at cell therapy in relationship to cancer, especially not in team, but in solid, we've been a
little bit, probably more exploratory. And right now, our view of cell therapy in immunology is one
that might be more similar to our view of cell therapy in solid tumor, a little bit more exploratory.
A - `Peter Dannenbaum, Vice-President Investor Relations `
Great, thank you, Chris. Ivy, we have time for one more question, please.
Operator
And for our final question, we will go to the line of `Louise Chen, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald from Cantor Fitzgerald. Please
go-ahead.
Q - `Louise Chen, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. I just wanted to ask you on your ADC platform, if you feel that
what you have is enough for now or do you want to expand or add-on to it? And any interest in
radiopharmaceuticals? Thank you.
A - `Dean Y. Li, President `
Thank you very much for that question. So when we think about the tissue targeting, we think of
ADCs. And the answer is I think the ADC field will continue to develop and I think there'll be other
payload other linkers, but also the specificity by which you do the tissue targeting in relationship
to the antibody may change.
There is also clearly evidence of potential movements into peptide drug conjugates that we're
interested in, as well as the possibility that the payload is no longer chemotherapy based, but
other sort of compound based. So we're interested in that.
In tissue targeting, more broadly, we are interested in -- so we view that as -- okay, that's how
we're going to move sort of toxic cell chemotherapy agents into tissue targeting sort of scheme,
making chemotherapy precision medicine. But we also are very interested in the IO space in
relationship to tissue targeting and that is our foray and that has really helped our proposed
acquisition with Harpoon that has a very interesting asset in relationship to tissue targeting and
immune engagers.
A - `Peter Dannenbaum, Vice-President Investor Relations `
Great. Thank you Louise and thank you all for the really good questions and appreciate you
sticking to mostly one question. We got to a lot of questioners. So, I appreciate that. Do you have
any follow-ups, please reach-out to IR. We'll be seeing you soon.Operator
Thank you all for participating in the Merck Company Q4 Sales and Earnings Conference Call.That
concludes today's conference. Please disconnect at this time and have a great rest of your day.