Q4 2015 Earnings Call

Operator
Good morning, and good afternoon. My name is Stephanie. I will be your conference operator
today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Nokia Fourth Quarter and Full Year
2015 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background
noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. `Matt Shimao, Head-Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations. You may
begin.
`Matt Shimao, Head-Investor Relations `
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to Nokia's fourth quarter 2015 conference call. I'm `Matt Shimao, Head-Investor Relations,
Head of Nokia Investor Relations. `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer, President and CEO of Nokia; and `Timo Ihamuotila, Group Chief Financial Officer,
CFO of Nokia, are here in Espoo with me today. Also, joining us today from Paris to help with any
questions on Alcatel-Lucent's Q4 and full year 2015 during the Q&A session is `Jean Raby, Chief Financial & Legal Officer, Chief
Financial and Legal Officer of Alcatel-Lucent.
During this call, we'll be making forward-looking statements regarding the future businesses and
financial performance of Nokia and its industry. These statements are predictions that involve
risks and uncertainties. Actual results may therefore differ materially from the results we currently
expect. Factors that could cause such differences can be both external, such as general economic
and industry conditions, as well as internal operating factors. We have identified such risks in more
detail on pages 74 through 89 of our 2014 Annual Report on Form 20-F, our report for Q4 and fullyear 2015 issued today, as well as our other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.
Please note that our results release, the complete interim report with tables and the presentation
on our website include non-IFRS results information in addition to the reported results
information. Our complete results reports with tables available on our website include a detailed
explanation of the content of the non-IFRS information and a reconciliation between the non-IFRS
and the reported information.
With that, Rajeev, over you.
`Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Matt, and thanks to all of you for joining. Our fourth quarter results were a good way
to cap off what was a truly transformational year for our 150-year-old company. It was a year in
which we announced the acquisition of Alcatel-Lucent and moved towards the closing of that
transaction faster than we originally thought possible.
The year in which we sold our HERE mapping business for over €2.5 billion in cash proceeds
launched our €7 billion capital structure optimization program and more, all while delivering on our
financial commitments for the year. We are certainly not complacent and we know that we will
have some challenges in 2016, but I believe that we can look back to last year with some
measure of pride and with confidence that we took the right steps to position the company for
the future.
The results that we announced today for the fourth quarter reflect solid performances from both
Nokia Networks and Nokia Technology. On a Nokia level, we delivered non-IFRS diluted EPS of
€0.15 during the quarter, a rise of 67% year-on-year thanks largely to the Samsung arbitration
results. Net sales were up 3% versus a year ago, although down 3% on a constant currency basis
at €3.6 billion and our non-IFRS gross margin was 46.4%.
For the full year, net sales were up 6% compared to 2014 at €12.5 billion, although on a constant-
currency basis, sales were up 52% (03:38). Based on the company's good performance, the
board of directors is planning to propose an ordinary dividend for 2015 of €0.16 per share and a
special dividend of €0.10 per share in line with our capital structure optimization program which
Timo will cover in more detail later.
Given the recent announcement we made about the completion of the arbitration with Samsung,
let me start with that topic. After which, I will discuss Nokia Networks results and the progress we
have made with Alcatel-Lucent.
While we would have preferred better results for the Samsung arbitration, there are several
points that I would like to make to put the outcome in some perspective. First, the arbitration was
focused on a portion of the patent portfolio of Nokia Technologies. There are a number of
patents within Nokia Technologies that were not covered and, of course, we have separate
patent portfolios outside of Technologies that were excluded as well. Given this, we expect to
have further discussions with Samsung related to those parts of Nokia's intellectual property that
were not covered by the arbitration. In time, we believe that we will generate additional revenue
from Samsung in these areas.
Second, while the details of the arbitration outcome are confidential, we think the results position
us to continue to build our licensing business at terms that we believe will be superior to others in
our industry, reflecting the overall strength of our intellectual property. Third, we are fullyengaged in licensing actions well beyond just Samsung. In fact, we have an arbitration already
underway with another smartphone vendor and ongoing discussions with many other significant
industry players. Fourth, we see opportunities to expand our licensing activities not just in mobile
devices, but to other segments within consumer electronics and new areas such as automotive.
Finally, I would just point out that circumstances for each licensing case are different and this
single arbitration does not necessarily suggest the outcome of future transactions either with
Samsung or with other parties. In short, I remain confident that our intellectual property portfolio
is second to none in the industry and that we continue to have solid opportunities in this area.
Timo will discuss this in further detail along with Nokia Technologies performance in the quarter in
his comments.
Now, to Nokia Networks where we ended 2015 delivering on our commitment for the full year,
with non-IFRS operating margin at the high end of the original guidance range and net sales up
3% on a reported currency basis. Of course, our net sales performance benefited from currency
fluctuations, but we demonstrated that we could recover from a weak Q1 and still achieve good
annual results.
For the quarter, Nokia Networks net sales were down 5% on a reported basis and 12% on a
constant currency basis. As I've said in the past, I'm not pleased with the decline in sales, but I
also believe our performance is not inconsistent with others in our sector and we have kept our
focus on delivering strong profitability despite this condition.
Non-IFRS gross margin was an excellent 39.6%, our third consecutive quarter above 39%. Non-
IFRS operating margin at 14.6% was the best for the Networks business since the formation of the
Nokia Siemens Networks joint venture helped by software sales that were approximately 400
basis points above the same quarter last year.
Operating expenses were also down year-on-year on a constant currency basis, although up
slightly on a reported basis. This reflects our ongoing discipline and ability to flexibly adjust our
business to reflect market conditions.
That discipline is also seen in a range of our operational metrics. Nokia Networks Customer
Experience survey, which calculates customer satisfaction ended 2015 at an all-time high,
continuing its upward trajectory. This reflects our unrelenting focus on quality transformation. For
example, software quality levels are up five times since 2012, and we have seen a 60% reduction
in outages since 2011.
Head count was down sequentially and we continue to exit from factories during the year, part of
our longer term approach to streamline operations and tap the expertise of our manufacturing
partners. At end December, Nokia Networks operated four manufacturing facilities, down from 10
at the end of 2011.
In terms of our reported segments, the business mix in the quarter was 54% Mobile Broadband
versus 46% for Global Services, a touch more weighted towards Mobile Broadband when
compared to the year-ago figures. For Mobile Broadband, we notched strong profitability in the
quarter helped by higher software sales, strong growth in LTE and our growing small cells
business. The new Mobile Networks business group is continuing to move aggressively to target
leadership in 5G, leveraging our greater size and strengthened market position. And we are
planning a massive shift of refocus to 5G during 2016.
Global Services had a good quarter, although a higher proportion of network implementation
compared to one year ago had an impact on profitability.Turning to the regions, Greater China was a standout performer in Q4, notching 17% year-on-year
growth thanks largely to ongoing LTE rollouts. Like others in the industry, I expect that that the
torrid pace of growth in the Chinese market will come to an end during 2016. But we continue to
have a strong position in China, thanks to our combined installed base in the form of both Nokia
and Alcatel Shanghai Bell.
Asia Pacific, on the other hand, saw sales fall by 12% largely driven by the ongoing decline in the
market in Japan. While there were pockets of growth notably in India, which had a stellar year,
and in the Philippines and Thailand, these areas were not sufficient to offset the impact of Japan.
As you're aware, Japan has been particularly challenging for us and others in the industry over the
course of 2015. With the expanded portfolio that we now have, we continue to see opportunity in
Japan. But the next large catalyst for the market to improve is likely to be when 5G rollouts start
to accelerate.
We had slight growth of 2% in Middle East and Africa boosted by higher net sales in Global
Services and a strong showing especially in Saudi Arabia. As I said before, the market in Middle
East and Africa is likely to continue to grow and we are well positioned to take advantage of that
growth.
European net sales were down 7% due to lower net sales in Russia and Italy, but partially offset by
growth in the United Kingdom and Ukraine.
In North America, net sales fell 6%, although the year-ago figure benefited from a one-time
patent sale. Going forward, of course, our market presence and access will be greatly enhanced
by the addition of Alcatel-Lucent.
And in Latin America, net sales were down 9%, driven by lower net sales in both Global Services
and Mobile Broadband. This is another region where we think growth is likely in 2016, but there
are risks given some of the fragile conditions in the larger economies of the region.
As I look out at the market for this year, I expect conditions to be spotty at best. Some regions
will likely grow such as India, North America, Middle East and Africa, and Latin America. We also
think 2016 will be the year where we see the third wave of 4G LTE deployments come to fruition
in markets like Latin America, Africa and the Middle East following the first phase in the U.S.,
Korea, and Japan and the second phase in China and parts of Europe.
Some segments of the market that we will address with Alcatel-Lucent are likely to grow as well,
including mobile IMS, fixed access, IP routing, optical as optics technology moves from Optical
Multi-Service Node to Wavelength Division Multiplexing, video, analytics, small cells, and the
market for cloud stacks. As we see it now, however, this growth will be counterbalanced by what
we expect will be a meaningfully challenged outlook for the mobile radio market.
Now, before handing over to Timo, let me share some thoughts on Alcatel-Lucent. If you
remember that it was only some 10 months ago that we announced the brand acquisition, I think
we can be very pleased with the progress made to date. During the quarter, we received
overwhelming approval for the acquisition from our shareholders and the exchange of Alcatel-
Lucent securities went off smoothly and successfully. We believe that we are getting close to the
95% squeeze-out level, a topic that Timo will discuss in his remarks.
While we still continue to work to acquire full ownership of Alcatel-Lucent, combined operations
already began in early January and the integration work is off to a strong start. We're now
preparing joint bids for customers and preparations for Mobile World Congress later this month
are proceeding at full speed. In fact, you may have already seen some early launches for theevent around 5G, security, and analytics. In Barcelona, we will be presenting only one face to the
world, one Nokia.
As for our product portfolio, in the areas where we have no overlap, we are ready and able to
sell today. For those areas where there is overlap, we are working closely with customers to make
fast and effective decisions to ensure we have a streamlined and focused portfolio, while
ensuring no disruption to their existing operations. We aim to share more details about our
preliminary plans with our customers at Mobile World Congress. And in China, we are proceeding
quickly with the new board of directors in place for Alcatel Shanghai Bell and a new management
team to steer operations.
We're making good progress, helped by our faster-than-expected closing of the deal, but I want
to stress that we remain absolutely vigilant about ensuring the integration proceeds with minimal
disruption and we are confident we will deliver on our previously-announced synergy target.
We continue to believe the timing of the acquisition could not be better. 2016 will be a critical year
for the industry as we are now in a cycle between 4G and 5G, and the deal allows us to
significantly accelerate spending on 5G while reducing spending in 4G. In addition, the combined
portfolio will put us in an excellent position as the transition to the cloud accelerates. And as I've
said before, our new leadership position has put us at the table with our customers in ways that
would not have happened if we were two separate companies.
And to close, a brief comment on the Q4 results with Alcatel-Lucent which were clearly quite
strong. I would note, however, that the unusually robust growth in the Alcatel-Lucent wireless
business, 14% year-on-year with plenty of healthy high-margin software included, will likely have a
negative impact on our first quarter at least. To their credit, the Alcatel-Lucent team ended the
year on track with their Shift Plan goals, which is quite an impressive achievement.
With that, let me now hand the call over to Timo and then we can turn to your questions. Timo,
the floor is yours.
`Timo Ihamuotila, Group Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Rajeev. It has been an eventful quarter for Nokia, and there are quite a few topics that
I would like to cover in my remarks today. I will start with an update on the acquisition of Alcatel-
Lucent and the sale of HERE before walking you through the Samsung arbitration result and the
performance of Nokia Technologies in Q4. I will then turn to my customer discussion on our cash
performance in the quarter and lastly, I will say a few words on our capital structure optimization
program and outlook for 2016.
Starting with the Alcatel-Lucent acquisition, as you know, following the successful initial offer
period, the offer was reopened on January 14 and closed on February 3. The aim that (14:47)
published the results of the reopened offer yesterday. The solid results show that the vast
majority of Alcatel-Lucent investors clearly recognize the potential to create value by combining
our two companies. Nokia will hold approximately 91.3% of the share capital of Alcatel-Lucent
following the settlement of the tendered securities, which is expected to occur tomorrow. On a
fully-diluted basis, Nokia will hold approximately 88.1% of the share capital of Alcatel-Lucent.
The net cash reported by Nokia and Alcatel-Lucent at the end of 2015 totaled €9.2 billion.
Assuming the conversion of the OCEANE tender during the initial and reopened offers, the net
cash of the combined company would have been approximately €10 billion. Assuming that the
exchange of all remaining outstanding Alcatel-Lucent shares and convertible bonds into Nokiashares at the exchange ratio offered in the earlier public exchange offers, the total number of
Nokia shares would equal approximately 6 billion shares.
Naturally, we aim to get to the 95% threshold enabling Nokia to squeeze out the remaining
Alcatel-Lucent securities. We believe that we are very well positioned to reach the 95% threshold
and we have a number of options to achieve this goal as we have indicated in the documentation
for the public exchange offer. As previously announced, the Alcatel-Lucent ADS program will be
terminated on February 24, 2016, and we intend to cause Alcatel-Lucent to delist its ADSs from
the New York Stock Exchange.
To ensure proper governance as we progress towards 100% ownership of Alcatel-Lucent, we
have put in place a master service agreement. This agreement sets the framework for the joint
operations of the two companies until we reach the full ownership of Alcatel-Lucent and has been
approved by the boards of both Nokia and Alcatel-Lucent. We have been able to proceed with
the transaction faster than expected and the agreement allows us to continue with the
integration at a quick pace. The structure and clarity that the master services agreement
provides, enables us to already present one face to customers while ensuring that the interests
of the remaining Alcatel-Lucent shareholders are protected.
Moving to the sale of HERE, as you know, we announced the sale of HERE in early August to an
automotive industry consortium at an enterprise value of €2.8 billion. The transaction was
completed in early December and Nokia received net proceeds of approximately €2.55 billion
from the transaction, which is consistent with our earlier estimate, the net proceeds of slightly
above €2.5 billion. As a result, in Q4 we booked a gain of €1.1 billion in discontinued operations
which is slightly higher than our earlier estimate of approximately €1 billion.
Then turning to the outcome of the arbitration with Samsung. I have highlighted earlier the
significant potential that we see for Nokia Technologies. None of those aspirations have changed.
As we invest in long-term growth opportunities, we have continued to make progress licensing
Nokia's industry-leading IPR. Following the outcome of the Samsung arbitration, we recognized
€403 million of revenue in Q4 2015 in Nokia Technologies, part of which related to prior periods.
Our annualized revenue run rate for Nokia Technologies was approximately €800 million in Q4,
excluding the part which related to prior periods. Please note that this run rate is a point in time
estimate and not a forward-looking projection of net sales.
The five-year agreement covers part of the patent portfolio of Nokia Technologies from the
beginning of 2014 until the end of 2018 and we expect to have further discussions with Samsung
related to intellectual property and technology assets that were not covered by the arbitration
proceedings. In Q4, Nokia Technologies non-IFRS OpEx was €87 million an increase of €18 million
compared to the year ago quarter as we continued to invest in long-term growth opportunities.
Non-IFRS R&D expenses increased by €9 million year on year to €54 million primarily due to
higher investments in digital media, digital health, and technology incubation. The year on year
increase of €9 million in SG&A to €33 million was primarily due to increased licensing activities,
the ramp-up of new businesses, and higher business support costs.
We believe that these investments are key building blocks in driving longer term value across
Nokia Technologies. As I've highlighted in the past, we are very diligent and disciplined in making
investments into new areas. We have in place a structured dedicated (19:47) investment process
designed to align our spending with our technical progress and the market opportunities.
Moving then to our cash performance during Q4, on a sequential basis, Nokia's gross cash
increased by approximately €3 billion with a year-end balance of approximately €9.8 billion. Netcash and other liquid assets increased by approximately €3.7 billion sequentially with a year-end
balance of approximately €7.8 billion. The sequential increase in Nokia's net cash and other liquid
assets in the fourth quarter was primarily due to €2.54 billion of cash inflows from the sale of
HERE and a cash inflow of €827 million related to Nokia's adjusted net profit. In addition during
Q4, Nokia utilized the early redemption option of the €750 million convertible bond due in 2017
which had a positive impact of €712 million on our net cash and other liquid assets in the quarter.
Although Alcatel-Lucent is still being reported separately in Q4, in our view they had an
exceptionally strong quarter which included exceptionally strong free cash flow generation. While
this is clearly positive, it may naturally lead to some short-term headwinds in cash performance.
For example, the sequential decline in their working capital was noticeable in the fourth quarter.
We intend to harmonize our practices regarding working capital items going forward.
A further factor expected to impact Nokia's cash flow negatively in 2016 is our plan to reduce the
debt-like items of the combined company by approximately €1 billion as part of our €7 billion
program to optimize Nokia's capital structure. Additionally regarding Q1 2016, the catch-up
payment related to the Samsung award is expected to have a positive impact on our cash flow.
However, this is expected to be counterbalanced by certain Alcatel-Lucent transaction related
cash outflows.
Moving on to more details on our capital structure optimization program, Nokia has a very strong
balance sheet, and improving our capital efficiency is an important element of our value creation
strategy. Although the implementation of the overall capital structure optimization program is
subject to, for instance, the conversion of all the Alcatel-Lucent convertible bonds, we have been
swift in moving ahead with many elements of the program already. Regarding the deleveraging
portion of our capital structure optimization program earlier this quarter, we redeemed the $1.85
billion senior notes and repaid the €190 million bond, both of which were issued by Alcatel-
Lucent. The other main element of our €3 billion deleveraging program is the plan to reduce
debt-like items by €1 billion as I commented earlier,
Next on the €4 billion shareholder distribution as part of our capital structure optimization
program. We said back in October that we intend the dividend for 2015 to be at least €0.15. In line
with this, the board will propose a dividend of €0.16 for 2015 in addition to a special dividend of
€0.10. This will result in a maximum payout of approximately €960 million in dividends and about
€600 million in special dividends, assuming a share count of approximately 6 billion. The dividend
and share buyback are subject to shareholder approval at our AGM in June.
As always, a considerable amount of thought has been put into the dividend proposal. In addition
to the earnings generated in 2015, the board has carefully considered Nokia's potential sources
and uses of cash in the foreseeable future, including achieving 100% ownership of Alcatel-Lucent,
accelerating investments in 5G, the capital structure optimization program, and our integration
and synergy plans.
Finally, I would like to spend a few minutes on our guidance for 2016. Starting with Networks, due
to the very recent acquisition of Alcatel-Lucent, we believe it is not appropriate to provide annual
targets for net sales or operating margin at the present time. Instead, we intend to provide the
full-year 2016 outlook for Networks in conjunction with our Q1 results announcement. By mid April,
we target to provide comparable historical financials for the combined company. For Q1 2016, net
sales and non-IFRS operating margin in Networks are expected to be influenced by factors
including a flattish CapEx environment for Nokia's overall addressable market in 2016, a declining
wireless infrastructure market in 2016 with a greater than normal seasonal decline in Q1,competitive industry dynamics, product and regional mix, the timing of major network
deployments, and execution of integration and synergy plans.
Then on Nokia Technologies, determining the timing and value of significant licensing
agreements involves a lot of risks and uncertainties. Thus we believe it is not appropriate to
provide annual targets for net sales. However, it is worth noting that Nokia Technologies will
include the licensing and intellectual property management operations from Alcatel-Lucent going
forward, which will add costs as well as some net sales compared to the previous Nokia
Technologies structure.
At the Nokia group level, given the industry environment, we believe our track record of
operational discipline and culture of execution excellence will serve us well. We reiterated our
target for approximately €900 million of net operating synergies – net operating cost synergies
to be achieved in the full year of 2018. We have done an astronomical amount of planning. We
have already started the execution and we are confident that we can deliver on this target. The
importance of continuous improvement is deeply embedded in the DNA of Nokia.
And finally on our interest expense reduction target of approximately €200 million, note that the
Alcatel-Lucent OCEANEs tendered into the offer will help to reduce the interest expenses of the
combined company. In addition, on February 9, 2016, Alcatel-Lucent terminated its €504 million
revolving credit facility. Furthermore I mentioned earlier the redemption of Nokia's €750 million
convertible bond and Alcatel-Lucent's $1.85 billion senior notes and the repayment of Alcatel-
Lucent's €190 million bond. In total, these five items are expected to help us to reduce the
interest expenses of the combined company by approximately €200 million already on a full-year
basis in 2016 compared to the year-end 2014 run rate. Thus, we today accelerated our annual
interest expense reduction target by one year.
In closing, I am confident that Nokia's acquisition of Alcatel-Lucent presents a great value creation
opportunity. We have the energy and management bandwidth to execute the planned synergies
and to invest where it matters in a disciplined way. Furthermore, we are in the process of
implementing the Nokia business system across the combined company to make sure we look at
our long-term value creation opportunity holistically and systematically through both business
execution as well as through our capital structure optimization program.
And with that, I'll hand it over to Matt for Q&A.
`Matt Shimao, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Timo. Stephanie, please begin with the Q&A session.
Q&A
Operator
Certainly. Your first question comes from the line of `Gareth Jenkins, Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker) from UBS. Your line is open.
Q - `Gareth Jenkins, Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker) `
Thanks. I think, Matt, you forgot to say one question each, so I might just slip two in. Rajeev, I
wondered if you can talk about where you're seeing macro weakness into the first quarter.
Where's that most prevalent globally? And maybe one for Timo, just what greater than normal
seasonal decline actually means for Q1? Can you provide some color on what that means? I think
typically you're down about 23% quarter on quarter. Thank you.A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Gareth. So macro weakness during 2016, we see that in Russia, we see that in Japan, and
we see that in China. So these are some of the markets we see it in, of course coupled with the
fact that a lot of LTE build out has already happened in Japan and China during the last few years.
So that's on the macro weakness. And the second question.
A - `Timo Ihamuotila, Group Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, the discussion on the greater than normal seasonal decline, so as we said going into the
year, we are seeing a bit slower market on wireless infrastructure, and that has a bit of an impact
on that. And then the second thing which has an impact as well is that both companies had very
strong Q4 performance, and we are also expecting that to have a bit of an impact. And
traditionally, as you said, we have had about 24%, 23%, 24%, 25%, somewhere there, seasonally
to decline from Q4 to Q1.
A - `Matt Shimao, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Gareth. Stephanie, next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Sandeep Deshpande with JPMorgan. Your line is open.
Sandeep Deshpande, your line is open.
Please, hold.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Gardiner with Barclays. Your line is open.
Q - `Andrew M. Gardiner, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Thanks very much. Good afternoon. I had a question on the Alcatel-Lucent integration now that
you've got the deal closed. Timo, you mentioned how strongly Alcatel had finished the fourth
quarter. Certainly, it looks good from that point of view. It does make things a little more
challenging as you start this year. But aside from that, sort of the comps perhaps being a bit
tricky, is there anything else that you've sort of found now that you've got the deal closed that is
of concern? Or perhaps alternatively, have you found anything that does surprises you positively?
And then just related to that, how quickly can you execute on the integration plan in terms of
actually starting to take cost out? Is that something we can look for by second quarter? Is it going
to be more starting in the second half of the year? Any sort of idea on the phasing of the cost
cuts would be helpful. Thanks very much.
A - `Timo Ihamuotila, Group Chief Financial Officer `
Okay. Thank you, Andrew. So a couple of questions there, I guess. So first of all on our integration
and have we found anything sort of surprising? No, I would not say so. I think this has been going
according to the plan. And we noted today actually that in our new reporting structure there will
be two businesses reported as part of corporate, ASN and RFS. So these we will look at
somewhat differently maybe than in the previous structure. But, no, we have not found anything
which would be some kind of major surprise.
And then on the cost execution, we have not really given any further guidance on the cost side. I
want to reemphasize that we have the master services agreement in place, which is approved by
both companies. And under that, we can move swiftly ahead already now. So we are movingahead as quickly as possible, and of course we target as good outcome as possible. But
unfortunately I can't give any more detail at this point.
A - `Matt Shimao, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Andrew. Stephanie, let's see if we can find Sandeep.
Operator
Sandeep Deshpande with JPMorgan, your line is open.
Q - `Sandeep S. Deshpande, Analyst, JPMorgan Cazenove `
Yeah, hi. Can you hear me?
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
Q - `Sandeep S. Deshpande, Analyst, JPMorgan Cazenove `
Hello. Yeah, hi. My question is regarding IPR. I mean, there was some disappointment regarding
how much you monetized on the IPR portfolio from Samsung. Is this the price that you now get
from everybody else? That's my question. And in terms of further monetization with various other
parties, is that ongoing at this point? And when should we expect to see some results from that?
Thank you.
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Sandeep. So as I said, we would have of course preferred a better outcome, but I want
to be clear and point out that circumstances for each case are really different. And so this single
arbitration does not necessarily suggest the outcome of future transactions either with Samsung
or with other parties. Again, I want to repeat the main points. First, the arbitration with Samsung
was focused on a part of the patent portfolio within Technologies. There are other parts within
Technologies that we can yet monetize. And then there are, of course, portfolios beyond Nokia
Technologies, which is both Nokia Networks as well as Alcatel-Lucent. Given this, we expect that
we will have discussions with Samsung going forward as well to generate additional revenue from
these areas. And then, we are fully engaged in licensing actions well beyond just Samsung.
Like I said, we have other licensees in play. We've also got an arbitration already underway with
another smartphone vendor, and I want to see opportunities to expand the licensing activities not
just in mobile devices but clearly on a longer term basis in other segments. Automotive is one
example. IoT consumer electronics will be other. And so, overall, I'd say that we believe that our
portfolio is second to none. And we still have a strong licensing opportunity on the long-term
given the strength of the portfolio.
A - `Matt Shimao, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Sandeep. Stephanie, next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Sanders with Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.
Q - `Robert Duncan Cobban Sanders, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG (Broker UK) `Yeah, hi, guys. Maybe just a first question would be around the services business of the old Nokia.
Is that set to grow in 2016, or are you seeing some pressure also in that business?
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Robert. On the services business, now of course we'll have four services business in a
sense because every business will have an underlying services business that they will be focused
on. But you know we've been doing quite well in the services business. The opportunities for us in
terms of growth will be primarily in the services-led segments such as network planning,
optimization, which are a bit independent from the Mobile Broadband equipment sales. Then of
course systems integration both in Mobile Networks business, but also beyond that in
applications and analytics because typically IMS, VoLTE, a lot of these kinds of sales, customer
experience management analytics drive system integration and also the move to the cloud. So
those are the growth pockets. But I will not comment on whether we see growth overall in Global
Services.
A - `Timo Ihamuotila, Group Chief Financial Officer `
Maybe on that we can say as much that traditional services business top line has been a bit more
stable than Mobile Broadband.
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah.
A - `Matt Shimao, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Rob. Stephanie, we'll take our next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Francois Meunier with Morgan Stanley. Your line is
open.
Q - `Francois A. Meunier, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Yes. Thank you. Timo, I think you made quite a few remarks about the cash development in Q1 in
2016. So I just wanted to dig a bit deeper into that. So the working capital at Alcatel seems to
have been going in the wrong direction. Actually in the right direction in 2016 – in 2015, while yours
has been in the wrong direction. So do you expect one to offset each other and maybe to have
like a flattish working cash outlay in 2016? Is that the plan? Also, I was wondering regarding the
pensions of Alcatel, if you could give us an idea of the cash outlay we need to put in the model
for 2016 and the coming years; is it around €130 million? And also I was wondering about the
factoring of Alcatel. I know you're not too keen on that, but still, the amount of factoring of Alcatel
has still increased in 2015 to I think around €2 billion. Is it something that you expect to unfold in
Q1, or it's going to take all year or maybe more time? Thank you.
A - `Timo Ihamuotila, Group Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Francois. Maybe, Jean, I would ask you to just quickly comment on the net working capital
performance of Alcatel and the pension question, and then I can talk maybe in more detail on the
full value of the Q1 cash dynamics, if you could please.
A - `Jean Raby, Chief Financial & Legal Officer `Okay. Thank you, Timo. Insofar as our working capital is concerned as you saw, we had a good
performance in the reduction of our inventories. This is really a reflection of the work done since
the launch of the Shift Plan as well as the natural inventory clearing we can do in Q4 on the back
of built up of inventories in Q3 ahead of what is traditionally a high-level activity at the end of the
year. I do believe that the Shift Plan has resulted in a much more resilient management of our
business, and that includes tighter and more efficient management of our working capital.
Secondly, insofar as pension is concerned, the principal cash outlays relate to Europe, not the U.S.
In U.S., we do not expect other than the nonqualified pension plans to make any cash contribution
to our pension plans for the foreseeable future. As far as Europe is concerned, taking a trend line
from what we achieved, what we had to pay in 2015 is a good place to be. Thank you.
A - `Timo Ihamuotila, Group Chief Financial Officer `
Okay. Thanks. And then on the overall cash going forward, so clearly we have the following
impacts on cash. So as we said, results we expect to be sequentially down. So that will have an
impact. We expect some of this net working capital performance to reverse as there was some
really rapid cash conversions late Q4. Then Alcatel-Lucent said that there is licensing agreement
with Qualcomm which will likely result into a negative cash outflow of €2.74 million (38:38). This is
related to Nokia's acquisition of Alcatel-Lucent so that's triggered that thing. It was mentioned in
the Alcatel- Lucent longer report today.
Then on the other side on a tailwind, we have a Samsung, where we will receive I would say
maybe the right characterization is clearly less than half of the expected total. We said that
between 2016 and 2018, we expect about €1.3 billion, so clearly less than half of that. Then
OCEANEs, of course, will play into the cash mix as well during Q1. So there will be a lot of moving
parts. When it comes to the overall reduction of debt-like items, as we have said, as part of our
capital structure optimization plan, we will look at this diligently already during Q1 and see what
makes sense. But our target clearly is to take the financing cost down as we have very strong
balance sheets. So kind of it is possible that we will run quite a big part of that through the P&L
already during Q1.
A - `Matt Shimao, Head-Investor Relations `
Great. Thank you, Francois. Stephanie, we'll take our next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Kai Korschelt, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch with Merrill Lynch. Your line is open.
Q - `Kai Korschelt, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Yes. Afternoon, gents. Thanks for taking my questions. So I just wanted to follow-up on the
wireless outlook, just because it seems a bit inconsistent with what the semiconductor supply
chain is saying about demand improving on the IRF (40:09) side. So, is your comment more
specific to Alcatel's wireless business because that obviously had a very strong fourth quarter
because the Nokia Networks standalone business seemed to have if anything, I'd say a sub-
seasonal Q4. So I'm just wondering, is this really very broad based or is it may be more specific to
the Alcatel part of the wireless business.
And then the second question is really on the IPR business. So I'm just wondering why you haven't
provided any revenue guidance, because I thought you said after the Samsung arbitration, your
run rate should be around €800 million this year. It appears that maybe the Apple agreement is
due to get renewed this year. So why haven't you said €800 million plus any additional revenueon top from that settlement? Or are you potentially concerned that they may stop paying you like
they have with some of your peers? Thank you.
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Kai. So on the wireless market, it's the radio market within the wireless market that we
see that will be soft during 2016. There'll be markets that have momentum in spending, because
LTE build outs still need to be done in some markets, and those are North America, both
coverage type and of course building of capacity. Then there is Latin America, Middle East and
Africa, and partially India. Latin America is a question mark but could also be. And then the rest, as
I commented, would be in decline. But again, let's be clear, it's the radio market within the
wireless.
A - `Timo Ihamuotila, Group Chief Financial Officer `
Okay. And then the IPR business revenue outlook, so, I mean, clearly the timing and the amounts
of the settlements are quite difficult to estimate. And for that reason, as we have also said earlier,
we think that we don't want to be in a position where we would give kind of like certain guidance
or outlook on revenue on that business which would then force us to do deals which would be not
in the long-term value creation interest of the company and its shareholders. So that really is the
main reason. But it has nothing to do with somebody either stopping paying or something. I
mean, if the license agreement runs out and you have not agreed something before it runs out,
it's quite typical that somebody would stop paying. And then you'd just sort of do a catch up
when you agree again. So, there is no drama there.
A - `Matt Shimao, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Kai. Stephanie, next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Achal Sultania, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. with Credit Suisse. Your line is open.
Q - `Achal Sultania, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Hi. Thanks. So real quickly on the end market, I think obviously you're talking about RAN softness.
But if I look at the Alcatel part of the business, should we, given that RAN or wireless, is only
about one-third of the business, should we expect some sort of growth in rest of the business,
which is routing, optics, fixed and in some parts of platforms?
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Achal. So like we said, so flattish CapEx environment for the total addressable market of
the new Nokia. Wireless being down within that, it is radio really that's the issue of softness. So
the businesses that have potential for growth are IP, transport, backhaul transport, video
gateways, some part of the applications and the analytics business. And those will offset the
decline, if you like, from radio, thereby the market being flattish.
A - `Matt Shimao, Head-Investor Relations `
Thanks, Achal. Stephanie, next question, please.
OperatorYour next question comes from the line of `Vincent Maulay, Analyst, Oddo & Cie SCA (Broker) with Oddo. Your line is open.
Q - `Vincent Maulay, Analyst, Oddo & Cie SCA (Broker) `
Hey. Good afternoon. A question regarding the risk of the synergy so namely what about the risk
of seeing a Tier 1 mobile operators swapping Alcatel-Lucent because so far it seems to be quite
reassuring. So what about you seeing in the short-term on this topic?
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Vincent. So I think the question is around really portfolio rationalization swaps and so on.
So we have overlap in substantially the radio business basically on seven accounts. We have
worked through – remember we have talked about the CPRI, the CPRI interface that would allow
in a nutshell our equipment to talk to the Alcatel-Lucent equipment so that we can minimize the
impact of swaps. That is already tested in the labs. We will have it in Barcelona. We are ready for
field trials with our customers. We are now working through the specific migration plans of these
seven overlapping customers and at this point in time the dialogue has been pretty good.
Our focus is on continuing to use open interfaces to minimize swaps unless there are very
specific cases where there's an element of modernization that might be needed which is distinct
from swaps per se because of roadmap rationalization.
A - `Matt Shimao, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Vincent. Stephanie, we'll take our next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Pierre Ferragu with Bernstein. Your line is open.
Q - `Pierre C. Ferragu, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Hi. Thank you for taking my question. I have one actually on gross margins. So I have two things in
mind. In radio, if you have a softer market in 2016 with like a slowdown in rollout in China, in Russia
and to some extent, in Japan, is that reasonable to think this will have like a positive impact on
gross margin because typically in a slowdown like that, it's more like, say, hardware, lower margin
(45:43) activity which has affected those – the lower margin rollout activity which is affected. So
that's one driver I have in mind.
And then the second driver I have in mind is about Alcatel-Lucent, the gross margin they've pulled
out on the software that is very, very impressive. Should we think of that as almost a one-off?, the
last nice quarter and then we should think that the normalized gross margin for Alcatel-Lucent
being 2 points, 3 points below that level? Or is it actually like a fairly sustainable level we can take
into consideration when we start modeling 2016 for the combined entity? Thanks a lot.
A - `Timo Ihamuotila, Group Chief Financial Officer `
Okay. So maybe I'll start first with the second question. So I actually think that Alcatel-Lucent called
out that there was a bit of additional software sales on the Q4 numbers and it would have been
few percentage points lower. So I think that's in line with what you said, Pierre.
What then comes to the overall gross margin performance on 2016, as we said, we are really at
this point not giving any guidance on 2016 so I can't really comment on that. I mean, of course,
big part of the radio is hardware, but I would say overall, the software component everywhere inthe network now is bigger and bigger part of the deal. So I wouldn't draw such straight
conclusion, but again we'll come back to the 2016 guidance after Q1 results.
A - `Matt Shimao, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Pierre. Stephanie, next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Kramer, Analyst, Arete Research Services LLP with Arete Research. Your line is open.
Q - `Richard Kramer, Analyst, Arete Research Services LLP `
Thanks very much. Just to follow that question up with maybe a different take on it. Rajeev, when
you look at how networks are evolving and that both companies noted software licenses
boosting gross margins and indeed, when you look at Alcatel's Nuage and the platforms
business, can you envision reaching a material portion of sales from recurring software license
income in 2016? And do you think you'd be willing to disclose that?
And equally, since Jean is on the line, I'd love to hear his comments on the sustainability of the
cash flows and specifically the margins in some of the Alcatel divisions. The margin in access, for
example, was the highest that we've seen in a decade or more. And I guess stripping out those
software one-off benefits, I'd love to know underlying that whether there are material margin
improvements that we can expect to carry on into following years when there's not the bonus of
the Shift Plan hanging overhead. Thanks.
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Richard. Let me start the first question. So software, of course, is an area of focus. A lot
of the development in the equipment is software-driven. All I would say it's an area of focus and
we talked about it from Q1 2015 onwards, so we had a 1 point increase in software sales during
2015 compared to 2014. again looking at it from a full year perspective. And of course, that's the
focus that we have to keep driving it separately.
We now have Applications & Analytics which is a software business in itself, which is primarily all
software and our aim is to try and capture more and more of that market over time.
A - `Timo Ihamuotila, Group Chief Financial Officer `
And we will look at the new combined Networks business through a little bit of a different lens
going forward. So I don't think it's really appropriate to start to comment how any of these
specific businesses, either in the Alcatel-Lucent or at Nokia, would carry forward as is because
that's simply not going to be the exact management structure where we will be in.
I mean, Jean, I'm happy if you want to comment further on the margin performance and how it
improved on 2015 and Q4, but – so the forward-looking, unfortunately, we can't go further.
A - `Jean Raby, Chief Financial & Legal Officer `
No, Timo. Thanks. I'll just make one or two comments about our performance in 2015 as a whole
on the cash flow and the improvement in margins. I mean, it's fair to say that this was all the
design of the Shift Plan, to improve profitability on a lasting basis and increase the visibility of the
business. And I think the steady progress we have made throughout the Shift Plan demonstrates
that.That being said, we have called out in our Q4 release the fact that we had – like Nokia has seen
some elevated sales of software. We use a different word. And frankly, gross margin, when you
look at it on a more normalized basis, would have been a few percentage points lower. That
being said, it would have still, in our view, exceeded the gross margin of last year, therefore
demonstrating the steady progress we have made in improving our profitability and our
management of the business. And that also reflects a total cultural change we have done within
the company to focus on profitability and cash.
A - `Matt Shimao, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Jean and Richard. So, Stephanie, let's take our next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Avi Silver, Analyst, CLSA Americas LLC with CLSA. Your line is open.
Q - `Avi Silver, Analyst, CLSA Americas LLC `
Hi. Thank you very much. How would you characterize the current competitive landscape? Has it
changed in the last six months in Networks? And do you see competition intensifying now that the
deal has closed and the demand environment seems to be a little bit uncertain?
And then on just gross margin, given the softer 1Q revenue outlook, can you talk about 1Q gross
margin on a year-on-year basis for the combined companies? I know you're not providing specific
guidance, but maybe directionally, you can provide some insight there that would be helpful. And
to that end, did the FX tailwind in 2015, to what extent did that help gross margin for Nokia?
Thank you.
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. On the competitive landscape, we said in Q1 of last year that things have changed and
since then there's no significant shift. So I would say it's been stable sequentially over the last few
months.
A - `Timo Ihamuotila, Group Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. And, again, I really don't think I can shed more color on the forward-looking gross margin
topic. What comes to the FX, FX had a bit of a tailwind on our gross margin and also on operating
margin. Actually, it was bigger in Q3 than Q4. So Q4, it was actually a bit less on the Nokia side.
A - `Matt Shimao, Head-Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you, Avi. Stephanie, next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Simon Leopold with Raymond James. Your line is open.
Q - `Simon M. Leopold, Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
Thank you very much for taking my question. First, just a quick clarification. Earlier, you were talking
about the Alcatel-Lucent gross margin in the fourth quarter, mentioning that there was a call-out
of the contribution from software. Is there a value you can give us for the gross margin, what it
would have been ex that additional software mix?And then in terms of my question, I wanted to see if we could talk a little bit more about the
trends in China. Understanding the macro environment there is tough, but one of the other
challenges I'm wondering about is, historically, China had awarded Western vendors roughly
equal share with Alcatel-Lucent and Nokia each about 10% and the other fellow with roughly 10%.
Is there a headwind where you might be concerned about the Chinese operators trying to
rebalance share among the Western suppliers? And also on China, is there a possibility that
Chinese government tries to stimulate its economy with investment in the telco network
infrastructure that might be a possible source of upside – if we've seen that? Thank you.
A - `Timo Ihamuotila, Group Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So Timo here, maybe I'll start and then hand over to Rajeev on the China question. So
again, as Jean said, Q4 gross margin in Alcatel-Lucent could have benefited a few percentage
points from this, let's call it, additional software sale dynamic. And if you look at the overall gross
margin, if I remember correctly – Jean, you can correct me if I'm wrong – it's a little over 39% for
Q4 and for the full year about 36%. So I think that gives also a bit of a color on the matter.
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. And on the market share question, we did model some potential dis-synergies in China
when we – just to be prudent, when we did the Alcatel-Lucent deal. Having said that, I don't think
there's any underlying reason as long as we can work with the customers on the product portfolio
quickly and we intend to do that during and before Mobile World Congress, that we should
necessarily lose share, where we've been prudent in assuming some.
Now, the trend in China is that China Mobile did a big rollout over the last two, two-and-a-half
years and so we can't see that repeat itself. Having said that, there could be possible puts and
takes in terms of China Unicom and China Telecom potentially accelerating some more build
because they did not do an equipment build, plus they may get new spectrum. But we are, for
the moment, not counting on that changing. We still think macroeconomic and the big build-outs
will lead to a softer market this year.
A - `Matt Shimao, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Simon. And now, Stephanie, we are ready for our last question. I think we've used our
time for today.
Operator
And your last question comes from the line of `Sébastien Sztabowicz, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA with Kepler Cheuvreux. Your
line is open.
Q - `Sébastien Sztabowicz, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA
Yeah, hello. `Sébastien Sztabowicz, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA, Kepler Cheuvreux. Thanks for taking my questions. You will
report ASN figures now in the Group Common Functions going forward. Could you please update
us on the strategy you have for the Submarine business for the future?
And also, a question to Jean, you did not mention growth in Submarine in the press release for
Q4. Could you please comment a little bit on the business trends for the Submarine business in
Q4 and the outlook for this business in 2016? Thank you.
A - `Timo Ihamuotila, Group Chief Financial Officer `Okay. So maybe I'll start on the reporting and then hand over to Jean on how the business was
doing.
So regarding ASN from, I'll call it, the new Nokia structure perspective, the reason why we have
decided that we will run ASN and also RFS (56:22) business as part of Group Common is simply
that they are less synergistic to the other businesses we have. So we have not made any other
decisions. We now have to understand well what these businesses really are capable of doing
from our standpoint, how they possibly are or are not synergistic to the rest of the business
portfolio, and then we make further assessments. But it's way too early to assess it from our
management's perspective at this point in time.
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Jean, did you...
A - `Timo Ihamuotila, Group Chief Financial Officer `
Jean, did you want to comment on the ASN overall.
A - `Jean Raby, Chief Financial & Legal Officer `
Yeah, I can comment quickly. As you know, we don't report separate figures for ASN. They're part
of IP Transport. It's fair to say that the cyclical upswing that we had alluded to in previous
conversation continues to materialize. And if you want to look at 2015 as a whole, we had solid
double-digit growth in our revenues and I mean by that more than 10%, but reflective of the
cyclical upswing. And I'll leave my comments to that as I want to restrict any comments I make to
past events as opposed to future looking. Thank you.
A - `Matt Shimao, Head-Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you, Sébastien.
And I'd actually like to turn the call back now to Jean before Rajeev's closing comments.
A - `Jean Raby, Chief Financial & Legal Officer `
Thank you, Matt. I just wanted to take this opportunity to thank the entire community for your
support. You have taken time to understand and contribute to our equity story. You have trusted
us that we could execute, and you have challenged us and contributed to our thinking with your
insightful questions and comments.
So thank you very much. I have the utmost faith in the group. I'll be a long-term shareholder and I
hopefully will see some of you in my next endeavor.
On that, back to Rajeev.
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Jean. Thanks, Matt and Timo, and thanks again to all of you for joining. I would like to
close with a few words. Q4 end the chapter in the long histories of both Nokia and Alcatel-Lucent
and we have now started a new chapter. Our focus is clearly on delivering the benefits of the
Alcatel-Lucent deal to our customers and shareholders, creating long-term value in Nokia
Technologies and quickly taking steps to realize the synergies that we have promised, as well as
our €7 billion capital structure optimization program.While we're not blind to the market and macroeconomic challenges ahead of us, we will tackle
these head on and from a much better starting position than we would have had as two separate
companies. We start 2016 as an enlarged and strengthened company with confidence and
humility.
With that, thanks for your time and attention. And, Matt, back to you.
A - `Matt Shimao, Head-Investor Relations `
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes our conference call. I would like to remind you that during
the conference call today, we have made a number of forward-looking statements that involve
risks and uncertainties. Actual results may therefore differ materially from the results currently
expected. Factors that could cause such differences can be both external, such as general
economic and industry conditions, as well as internal operating factors. We have identified these
in more detail on pages 74 through 89 of our 2014 Annual Report on Form 20-F and a report for
Q4 and full year 2015 issued today, as well as our other filings with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. Thank you.
Operator
This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.