Q4 2016 Earnings Call

Operator
Hello and welcome to the Nokia Q4 and Full-year 2016 Earnings Results Conference Call. All
participants will be in listen-only mode. After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to
ask questions. Please note, this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. `Matt Shimao, Head of Investor Relations. Sir, you may begin.
`Matt Shimao, Head of Investor Relations `
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to Nokia's fourth quarter and full-year 2016 conference call. I am
`Matt Shimao, Head of Investor Relations, Head of Nokia Investor Relations. `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer, President and CEO of Nokia, and
`Kristian Pullola, Chief Financial Officer, CFO of Nokia, are here in Espoo with me today.
During this call, we'll be making forward-looking statements regarding the future business and
financial performance of Nokia and its industry. These statements are predictions that involve
risks and uncertainties. Actual results may, therefore, differ materially from the results we
currently expect.
Factors that could cause such differences can be both, external, such as general, economic and
industry conditions, as well as internal operating factors. We have identified such risks in more
detail on pages 69 through 87 of our 2015 Annual Report on Form 20-F, our report for Q4 and
full-year 2016 issued today, as well as our other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.
Please note that our results release, the complete interim report with tables and the presentation
on our website include non-IFRS results information in addition to the reported results
information. Our complete results reports with tables, available on our website, includes a
detailed explanation of the content of the non-IFRS information and a reconciliation between the
non-IFRS and the reported information.With that, Rajeev over to you.
`Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Matt and thanks to all of you for joining our Q4 results call. Before I go into the details
of the quarter, let me take a step back and share some reflections on the full year. We always
said that 2016 would be a year of transition, and it was certainly that. Nokia started the year
primarily as a Mobile Networks and patent licensing company, both good businesses, but they
were largely the limit of our scope. Today, we are a fundamentally different company with a
complete portfolio that allows us to expand our leadership position with communication service
providers and to tap adjacent growth areas.
To start with, we built on our existing two businesses over the course of the year. In Mobile
Networks, we now have much greater scale after the addition of Alcatel-Lucent, including a
number one position in 4G LTE that positions us very well for the move to 5G, a strong presence
in core networks and services and a deeper presence in all markets with particular strength in
North America.
Our patent licensing business has also progressed, adding more licensees as well as concluding
our arbitration and reaching an expanded licensing deal with Samsung. We also reached a band
licensing agreement with HMD Global, which has already launched a Nokia-branded smartphone
in China.
Then we added SCOPE (3:17) and created an end-to-end portfolio that we believe is
unparalleled. With the Alcatel-Lucent transaction, we added fixed, routing, optical, additional and
standalone software and more. We acquired Gainspeed, giving us a compelling entry into the
DOCSIS-based world of cable operators. We also made several other acquisitions designed to
expand our capabilities in areas such as big data analytics for network and service automation
and network security. We continued to innovate, leveraging the power of Nokia Bell Labs to
deliver differentiated products in our Networks business groups.
In Nokia Technologies, we accelerated our Digital Health business with the acquisition of Withings,
and continued to strengthen our foothold in the growing virtual reality ecosystem.
And we set out a sharpened strategy and made significant, even if early progress, in executing
that strategy. Just to take one example, our efforts to diversify and grow sales to select vertical
markets that need carrier-grade networks such as utilities and extra-large enterprises that use
information technology as a competitive advantage, gained momentum.
In short, 2016 was a year of massive change for Nokia. Pleasingly, as we went through this
transition, we saw firm support from our customers, little to no drop in our core operational
metrics, and good work on integration and cost reductions.
Let me touch briefly on each of these three areas. First, customers, so far in 2017 I've already
spoken with around 30 customer CEOs. Overall, the feedback I have received is quite positive
about our technology, quality, unique portfolio and end-to-end capabilities.
Beyond that anecdotal evidence, I would note that for deals where we compete, our win rate has
stayed stable and high. When we lose deals it tends not to be because of technology gaps, but
rather because we choose to prioritize deals, which offer the right value now and in the longer
term.
When you look at our 2016 results, I think you see that we have done a solid job of maintainingto-end portfolio is creating new opportunities for us.
We're seeing cross-selling take place in a number of accounts and 16% of our pipeline of deals
now involves products and services from two or more Nokia business groups. That is almost
double what it was in Q2 last year and I see no reason for the momentum in this area to slow.
Second, operational metrics, despite the challenging market and heavy lifting related to
integration in 2016, we delivered well.
Just to give some examples, inventories in our Networks business groups have been stable,
overdue receivables were down across all of our regions, our supply chain and manufacturing
partners executed well and the cost of poor quality came down significantly in 2016 compared to
2015.
Third, integration and cost reductions; as I said on our last call, we have completed the
integration projects related to Alcatel-Lucent with the exception of a small handful of long tail
efforts. With this progress, we have been able to turn to continuous improvement activities that
already delivered clear benefits in 2016 and will continue to do so this year.
While I'm generally pleased with work on the integration of our product portfolio today, our R&D
teams, particularly in mobile radio are facing a heavy, even if not, unexpected workload. The
volume of products that needs to be combined and new feature that need to be implemented is
high. Fortunately, we have an excellent team and leadership in mobile radio and I'm confident that
this work will be largely behind us by the end of the year.
In terms of cost reductions, our performance in 2016 gives me confidence that we are tracking
well to meet our commitment to reduce costs by €1.2 billion in full-year 2018. In all key areas, real
estate, procurement, head count, discretionary spending, we made solid progress in the year.
In addition, as I've said before, should business conditions prove more difficult than expected, we
have additional cost levers that we can pull to help maintain our profitability. You should have no
doubt that we will act without hesitation if the situation warrants.
Of course, despite what I see as very meaningful progress, we faced some challenges, the
biggest one being our topline decline. We understand the primary reasons behind that
performance, a challenging market across most of our segments, a strong Alcatel-Lucent
performance in 2015, as they drove to complete the shift plan in their final quarter as a company
and slow sales momentum at the start of the year when we first came together with Alcatel-
Lucent and we combined the portfolios of the companies. Understanding is not, however,
excusing. Stabilizing our top line is a top priority and a key area of focus for me and my leadership
team. I have prioritized my time in the coming months to ensure that customers, particularly those
where we have large new opportunities, are at the top of the list.
We have already moved from integration of our sales organizations to optimization, to ensuring
that we are truly best-in-class. Steps underway include sharpened incentive plans, improved
competence development for new portfolio areas in software selling, more backend automation
to enable salespeople to spend more time with the customer, the deployment of advanced sales
and CRM tools and more. Overall, I would say that 2016 was a year of transition and strong
execution, a year in which we put in place an extremely solid operational foundation for the
future.
With that overview, let me turn to the quarter. Nokia Group net sales in the quarter were €6.7
billion, down 13% year-on-year. Gross margin came in at 42%, almost flat year-on-year andoperating margin was 14%. Non-IFRS diluted earnings per share came in at €0.12, some of this
was driven by a tax rate that was considerably lower-than-expected, but even excluding that, we
delivered well. Thanks to this performance, we confirm today that our board of directors will
propose a €0.17 per share dividend for 2016, up €0.01 per share from what we returned to
shareholders in 2015.
On the Network side, sales in Q4 of €6.1 billion were down 14% year-on-year. When normalized
for the large Alcatel-Lucent pull-in in Q4 2015, the year-on-year decline in the final quarter was a
single-digit percent drop, which is consistent with my view that we are making progress towards
stabilizing our top line.
Within Networks, we saw improvement in services in Q4 relative to the earlier part of 2016 with
healthy performances from network implementation and professional services. As you know,
professional services is a strategic category for Nokia and it saw momentum in many markets last
year.
Networks' profitability was quite good in the quarter. Gross margin of 40.6% was up year-on-year
by 50 basis points, and operating margin was strong at 14.1%. That allowed us to close the full
year with an operating margin for Networks at 8.9%, at the high end of our guidance range.
Nokia Technologies had sales and operating profit that were down in Q4 compared to the same
period last year. This should not, however, obscure the underlying progress we are making, as
last year we had the unique benefit of the Samsung arbitration award. I will come back to Nokia
Technologies later in my remarks to give a bit more perspective on the current state of the
business. Now, let me turn to our three reportable segments.
In Ultra Broadband Networks, Q4 net sales were down year-on-year. Within this, Mobile Networks
was down by 14% and Fixed Networks was down by 22%. Gross margin for the segment held up
well and at 38.1% was up slightly year-on-year.
Let me provide some more color, starting with Fixed Networks. 2016 was an unusual year for
Fixed Networks, which had a very slight year-on-year sales decline for the full year, but a large
variation from typical seasonal patterns. The first and second quarters of 2016 were very strong.
The third saw slowing but still positive growth, while the fourth ended with a sharp year-on-year
sales decline.
This performance may contrast sharply with that of 2017, when we expect to see more typical
seasonality. I would also note that much of Fixed Networks' decline in Q4 was driven by two
customers, one in Latin America and one in Asia-Pacific. We do not see any near term structural
issues that will impact the business beyond the overall market challenges that we've already
flagged.
We also see positive synergy opportunities for Fixed Networks with growing interest from Nokia's
earlier strong customer base, particularly in India, where we have already entered one major
customer as well as in Japan and Korea.
Then, Mobile Networks, where despite the top-line decline, we are seeing growing opportunities
in a number of areas. New evolutions of 4G, small cells, cloud-based core networks and public
safety, among others. As a result, we see the potential of at least some stabilization in the mobile
market in 2017.
In 4G, we're offering operators a way to invest now to meet capacity demands, while also
ensuring clear service continuity with 5G. Feedback on this approach has been very positive andwe have now more than 110 4.5G customers, many trials of 4.5G Pro underway and significant
longer-term interest in upcoming 4.9G capability, which will be commercially available later this
year. Not only does this approach put our customers in a strong technological position, but it also
helps maintain near-term spending that reduces the impact of the 4G to 5G transition.
In terms of small cells, we are seeing the market starting to accelerate as customers move to
densify their networks. Our small cells business grew 51% in 2016 with demand picking up over
the course of the year, and I expect that to continue.
Not surprisingly, much of this growth is with existing macro radio customers, but not only. We have
won several small cell contracts with customers where we have no macro radio business, and we
see that as an opportunity to demonstrate performance with our excellent small cell portfolio and
expand future sales.
Cloud core is an area that we like a lot, given its high value. Once you demonstrate performance,
customers tend to stay with you for a long time. Nokia is in a very good position with the
combination of a strong existing footprint, deep customer intimacy, end-to-end solutions,
comprehensive cloud capabilities, innovation strength and supporting services.
Our portfolio, particularly in both IP Multimedia Subsystem or IMS and Voice over LTE, has gotten
excellent industry recognition and continued positive customer momentum. In short, we are
seeing more and more deal activity for our end-to-end cloud-based core offering.
Public safety is also an expanding adjacent market and one of increasing focus in our targeting of
select verticals. While the market is starting a bit slower than some of the early predictions, we
like public safety a lot and are already working to provide LTE-based public safety networks in
multiple countries and expect that number to continue to grow in the years to come. Thus, while
the mobile business has been challenging in 2016, we see some light in the tunnel. Even if the
market continues to decline in 2017, as we expect it will, conditions are stabilizing and we are well
positioned.
Now, on to IP Networks and Applications. Net sales in this segment were 12% lower year-on-year
in the fourth quarter with gross margin up 90 basis points at 47% and operating margin a
respectable 16.1%. Applications & Analytics saw another quarter of revenue decline, still feeling
the effect of the Q4 2015 Alcatel-Lucent pull-in that I mentioned earlier.
Pleasingly, we do see some signs of stabilization in A&A as our increased our focus on software
sales starts to take hold. Order backlog, which we define as orders that are booked to-date but
not yet recognized as sales, grew considerably for A&A during Q4, although we are certainly not
yet ready to declare victory.
We believe that this measure generally gives us the best view of future sales performance for
our Networks business and I'm optimistic about the A&A business in 2017, even if cautiously so,
given the foundation that Bhaskar Gorti and his team have built and growing customer interest in
the solutions that we provide.
On IP routing, we are continuing to ramp down sales of third-party routing equipment, which
contributed to the year-on-year decline in the business. While some of those sales will continue in
2017, the majority are now out of the system. I know that there is some concern about overall
routing market conditions, but we maintain the view that I shared last quarter that the current dip
in the market is not evidence of a longer-term structural change.The underlying driver, traffic growth in the network, remains extremely strong. Despite
technology evolution consistently delivering an improved price per gigabyte, the demand for
capacity in our view cannot be met without continued, and in some cases, accelerated
investment.
Much of that new investment, however, will come not from telecom operators, but from large
enterprises and web-scale companies, those giants of the Internet that are building very large
private backbone networks. While we do have a presence in these non-carrier segments today,
much of the opportunity in this area is untapped for Nokia, and we are fully focused on changing
that situation.
2017 will be an important year for our routing team, as we have some exciting product
announcements to come that will take an already excellent product portfolio to an even higher
level. Stay tuned for more.
In Optical Networks, revenues declined on a year-over-year basis, partially due to a very tough
compare as Q4 2015 was a record quarter. North America was an area of strength, and where we
saw double-digit growth on a year-over-year basis with both web-scale and telco customers.
Nuage Networks, which sits within our IP/Optical business group, was also an area of strength.
Until now, Nuage has largely been focused on both product innovation and generating initial
mindshare with customers. That is now shifting is it pivots to a new level and we are winning
some good deals with customers like British Telecom Global Services, China Mobile and others.
Given evolving customer needs, it is increasingly clear that Nuage is a powerful asset for Nokia.
Finally, I would remind you about our acquisition of Deepfield, a data analytics company based in
the U.S. that we closed on earlier this week. Among other things, Deepfield's technology gives
customers visibility and control into which applications are running on their networks, while driving
automation and higher utilization and improving security.
Now, a brief look at the regional performance of Networks. Overall, as you will have seen in our
guidance, we expect our top-line performance in 2017 to be in line with our primary addressable
market, which we expect to be healthier than in 2016, but to still decline in the low-single digits.
Within that, there are, of course, significant regional variations. Based on what we saw in Q4, we
see some potential bright spots for 2017, including North America and parts of Asia-Pacific.
Despite the year-on-year sales decline in Q4 and for the full-year, I am generally pleased with our
performance in North America in 2016.
The team managed a difficult market and complex transition with large customers quite well. As I
look to 2017, there are certainly some potential positive catalysts in public safety, non-carrier
market segments, new evolutions of 4G LTE and the early transition to 5G.
Asia-Pacific, which had a relatively modest decline of 2% in the fourth quarter compared to the
same period last year has been hit hard for some time by the sharp drop in Japan. Overall, we
see the potential for a slow recovery starting in that country as the market reaches the bottom
and carriers start to invest again in 4G capacity as well as ensuring networks are ready for 5G.
India is another area of opportunity in Asia-Pacific as a new entrant to that market has stimulated
demand and capacity requirements.
Fourth quarter sales in China were down sharply year-on-year, pressured by some weaker
spending, particularly in mobile. We expect that slowdown to continue in 2017, but our
competitive position in China remains strong and our joint venture in the market gives us the
benefit of being a part Chinese company.I would expect both the Middle East and Africa and Latin America to remain difficult given ongoing
economic issues. Europe also remains challenging in the mobile space, but we saw growth
among non-carrier customers in the fourth quarter and we see longer-term possibilities with
increasingly strong cable players.
Now on to Nokia Technologies, our third reportable segment where we continued to make
progress on executing the strategies that we shared at our Capital Markets Day, last November.
On patent licensing, I've decided to make Maria Varsellona, our Chief Legal Officer, responsible
for our patent licensing business, in addition to continuing her existing duties. I am confident that
the combination of her business acumen and legal skills make her a perfect fit for taking on this
broader assignment. This change does not impact the way in which we report about our business
externally.
I expect that you've seen the action that we have taken with regard to Apple, we have now filed
suit against them in 11 countries, including the United States, Germany and Finland, and those
suits cover more than 50 patents that span technology such as display, user interface, software,
antenna, chipsets and video coding, as well as 3G and 4G cellular standards. While our
preference is not to have to resort to litigation, we will certainly do so when necessary to protect
our interests.
On brand licensing, HMD Global, Nokia's exclusive brand licensee for mobile devices began
operations in Q4. Shortly after that, just after the quarter ended, they launch their first android
smartphone, the Nokia 6 created specifically for the strategically important Chinese market.
Then Digital Health, where we said our initial focus would be on growth through an expanded
devices portfolio. To that end, the Steel HR watch became available in major channels in January
and has received very positive reviews.
In our other area of strategic focus for Nokia Technologies, that of Digital Media, we continue to
gain momentum in both OZO camera sales and in taking steps to see our virtual-reality video and
audio technology becoming embedded in the VR ecosystem. Our primary interest in this area
continues to be in developing technology that we can license to parties and in refreshing our
patent portfolio.
With that, let me extend a warm welcome and hand the call over to our new CFO, `Kristian Pullola, Chief Financial Officer,
who took over from Timo Ihamuotila effective January 1. Kristian over to you.
`Kristian Pullola, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Rajeev. I will begin by recapping the closing of the Alcatel-Lucent transaction, and then
continue with financial performance of Nokia Technologies and Group Common and Other.
Before commenting on our cash performance in the quarter, finally, I will update you on taxes and
hedging and close by highlighting key guidance items for 2017.
Starting with the closing of the Alcatel-Lucent transaction; as you recall, we were able to
complete the squeeze out of the remaining Alcatel-Lucent securities on the November 2,
reaching a 100% ownership of Alcatel-Lucent and completing the transaction in just 19 months
after we announced our plans to purchase the company is a fantastic achievement. Importantly,
this enables us to begin moving forward with full force to eliminate duplicate public company
costs and optimize our operating model and legal entity structure.
Then to Nokia Technologies, whilst net sales declined both year-on-year and sequentially, theaward benefited the top line in Q4 2015 and the expanded IPR agreement with Samsung
benefited the top line in Q3 2016. Both the arbitration award and the expanded agreement
included catch-up elements, which boosted net sales of Technology significantly in Q4 2015 and
in Q4 2016.
Looking at Technologies' gross and operating margin on a year-on-year basis, both were also
affected by the absence of the Samsung arbitration award. Furthermore, Digital Health and Digital
Media represented a higher proportion of Technologies' overall net sales in Q4, and this mix shift
combined with the higher OpEx levels in these areas was negative for the margin development in
Technologies.
As we continue to ramp up Digital Health and Digital Media, we remain highly focused on
investing at the right levels and at the right pace in these emerging businesses. Also, in Q4, as
Rajeev explained, we took necessary steps to protect Nokia's IPR by beginning litigation action
against Apple for patent infringement.
We would have preferred to reach a fair outcome in the most expedient way possible without
litigation. However, we are prepared for a long process, if that is necessary, a process during
which our additional litigation cost could be approximately $100 million per year.
To help with the consistency of the consensus, we think that it would make sense for the sell side
to remove net sales related to Apple from their numbers until we achieve a clear outcome. That
said, let me be clear that we have every expectation that in time we will reach a favorable result
given the strength of our IPR portfolio.
We have today reiterated our guidance for our patent and brand licensing revenue run rate to be
€800 million in 2017, assuming no new license agreements are signed. This number does not
include any licensing revenue from Apple.
Turning to the performance of Group Common and Other in Q4; the overall revenue that we
report under Group Common and Other increased by approximately 34% year-on-year. The
growth was primarily driven by Alcatel Submarine Networks, which continued its strong
performance. Again, for 2017, ASN enters the year well-positioned with a strong order book. In
addition to ASN, Radio Frequency Systems also recorded strong year-on-year growth in Q4. We
are naturally pleased with the strong financial performance of both ASN and RFS and we are
continuing the strategic reviews of both businesses.
Then our cash performance in the fourth quarter, on a sequential basis, Nokia's total cash and
other liquid assets decreased by approximately €65 million with a year-end balance of
approximately €9.3 billion. Net cash and other liquid assets decreased by approximately €240
million sequentially with a year-end balance of approximately €5.3 billion.
The sequential decrease in Nokia's net cash and other liquid assets in Q4 was mostly attributable
to net cash outflows from financing activities, which were approximately €730 million. This was
primarily due to the purchase of Alcatel-Lucent securities and starting of Nokia share repurchases.
Nokia's adjusted net profit before changes in net working capital was approximately €1 billion in
Q4. This was partly offset by net cash outflows of approximately €310 million related to working
capital, approximately €180 million related to income taxes and approximately €20 million related
to net interest.
Nokia had approximately €130 million of restructuring and associated cash outflows in Q4.
Excluding this, net working capital resulted in a decrease in net cash of approximately €180million, primarily due to seasonal increase of receivables partly offset by a decrease in inventories
and an increase in short-term liabilities. We are focused on working capital and cash flow and we
will work in the coming months to ensure our receivable level normalizes from the seasonality in
Q4.
Additionally, Nokia had net cash outflows of approximately €120 million from investing activities in
Q4, primarily related to capital expenditure. Furthermore, foreign exchange rates had an
approximately €160 million positive impact on Nokia's net cash in the quarter.
And lastly, during Q4, the remaining unsettled Alcatel-Lucent convertible bonds were acquired
through the squeeze out process. These bonds have been reclassified from interest-bearing
liabilities to other liabilities in Q3 2016, and therefore, the settlement resulted in an approximately
€40 million negative impact on net cash in Q4 2016.
As said, we started repurchasing shares under our capital structure optimization program on
November 16. In Q4, we executed the share buybacks at an accelerated pace, using
approximately €220 million of cash out of the planned total of €1 billion. Our intention is to
complete the planned share repurchases by the end of 2017.
Regarding the dividend for 2016, the other remaining element of our capital structure
optimization program, the board will propose a dividend of $0.17 per share, which would impact
our cash balance by approximately €1 billion when paid out to shareholders in Q2.
Next, a few words on taxes and hedging. Starting with our non-IFRS tax rate in Q4, which at 23%
was significantly lower than the approximately 40% we had guided for. The lower tax rate was
primarily due to a more favorable regional mix as well as overall higher profitability than we had
expected.
The tax rate is expected to increase in Q1 to between 35% and 40% as per the guidance we
provided today. Also, we now expect the tax rate for the full-year 2017 to be around the midpoint
of the 30% to 35% guidance range. Please remember to take note of this when you update your
models.
As mentioned earlier, following the completion of the squeeze out and reaching 100% ownership
of Alcatel-Lucent, we have been able to start concrete actions to integrate the former Alcatel-
Lucent and Nokia operating models into one combined operating model.
In Q4, this resulted in the recognition of €439 million of deferred taxes in the U.S. as well as
approximately €90 million of non-recurring cash taxes. Looking into 2017, primarily due to the
changes we expect to make to our operating model, we expect approximately €150 million of
non-recurring additional cash taxes this year.
Consequently, we have today raised our guidance for Nokia's cash taxes in 2017 from €400
million to approximately €600 million. As we detailed in our press release, we also expect the
changes in 2017 to trigger a reduction in deferred tax assets of approximately €250 million and
result in non-recurring reported tax expenses of approximately €250 million, again reported tax,
not non-IFRS.
By implementing our combined operating model, we are creating a foundation for our long-term
tax structure. We will be positioned to deliver substantial long-term cash back savings through
extended across – extending Nokia's tax attributes better and have a better alignment with our
taxable profit mix and the cash attributes. To be clear, the future cash tax savings are expected to
be larger than the related non-recurring cash taxes in 2016 and 2017.Then briefly on hedging, following the acquisition of Alcatel-Lucent, we have been reviewing our
foreign exchange hedging activities.
From the beginning of this year, we have harmonized practices related to Nokia's FX hedging.
Thus, from an accounting standpoint starting Q1, all results from hedging, operative forecasted
net FX exposures will be recorded in other income and expenses, regardless whether hedge
accounting is applied or not.
As you might recall, until now these FX hedging results have been recorded primarily as an
adjustment to net sales if cash flow hedge accounting was applied. That said, there is no material
change in our approach to hedging.
To mitigate the impact of changes to FX rates, we continue to hedge operative forecasted net
FX exposures typically with a 12-month hedging horizon and we apply hedge accounting for the
majority of these hedges.
Also, importantly, we are relatively well naturally hedged with similar proportions of net sales and
costs in our major currencies. Thus, the forecasted operative net FX exposures which we hedge
are rather limited to begin with. We will also continue to report net sales development on a
constant-currency basis.
Turning finally to our €1.2 billion cost savings target and key guidance items for 2017. Today, we
reiterated our guidance for €1.2 billion of annual cost savings in the full-year 2018. We are well on
track with our plan; in fact, we were able to achieve slightly more cost savings in 2016 than we
had earlier planned.
The cost savings achieved in 2016 were primarily due to lower personnel expenses reflected in
both OpEx and cost of sales, as well as procurement savings that benefited cost of sales.
In 2016, personnel expenses benefited from lower incentive accruals related to our financial
performance in full-year 2016. We expect the impact of lower incentive accruals to reverse in
2017, assuming Nokia's full-year 2017 financial performance in line with our expectation.
Consequently, we expect cost savings in 2017 to be approximately €250 million. As CFO of Nokia,
it is one of my key priorities to ensure strong, continued execution on our cost savings program.
We have today reiterated also our guidance for the overall planned network equipment swaps to
total €900 million, although only €150 million of this amount was recorded in 2016. You can find a
table summarizing our progress on the €1.2 billion cost savings target and the network equipment
swaps in the cost savings program section of our press release issued this morning.
Finally, a quick comment on how changes in FX rates affect our guidance. Rajeev already
discussed the demand trends we currently see in the networks market. As you know, FX rates
have moved significantly since our CMD in November. For clarity the guidance for 2017 that we
provided at CMD assumed constant exchange rates.
Also, as mentioned earlier, we are naturally well hedged. With that as context, we today
reiterated guidance for our Networks business for the full-year 2017, top-line decline in line with
our primary market, and 8% to 10% operating margin. If the market and our execution are both
strong in 2017, we have the ability to land at the higher end of this range.
Looking forward, as we move past the transition phase of the Alcatel-Lucent acquisition, we have
clear opportunities to drive higher returns through focused and correctly-timed investments in
attractive growth areas. While the market is challenging, we continue to make good progress onmultiple fronts and thus we remain confident in our strategic directions and potential to create
significant long-term value.
With that, over to Matt for Q&A.
`Matt Shimao, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Kristian. For the Q&A session, please limit yourself to one question only. Carrie, please
go ahead.
Q&A
Operator
We will now begin the question-and-answers session. Our first question comes from Pierre
Ferragu of Bernstein. Please go ahead.
Q - `Pierre C. Ferragu, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Hi. Thank you for taking my question. Rajeev, you mentioned in your prepared remarks what
spending could be in terms of technology between now and 5G, which still feels fairly far away
and you mentioned 110 clients of 4.5G already and 4.9G coming on the horizon. I was wondering
what should be the timeline for that kind of spending, is 4.5G already something that is very big in
your current run rate or is that something that you're going to ramp, and should we expect that to
be a boost to revenue in 2018 or 2019 or later? How do you see these two intermediary
technologies playing out over the next couple of years?
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Pierre. So, we have these 110 customers of 4.5G and our idea is to increase the adoption
of those to go to 4.5G Pro. 4.5G Pro gives a meaningful reduction in latency, close to 10
milliseconds and also an increase towards 1 gigabyte speed, so it actually gives something why
(39:49) we have new applications and new services in the market.
And then there's 4.9G, which can even go up to 2 gig and the latency comes in the range of 7
milliseconds, when number of industrial IoT hyper locally active type of applications can happen
enterprise, private LTE networks, utilities and so on.
And also on the consumer side because the speed increase, so 4.9G will come later in the year.
4.5G Pro will also need the adoption of our new baseband product, AirScale, which has been 5G
ready, so that's pretty good for operators as well.
So my sense is that 4.5G Pro will start to happen during 2017, already in the early part of the year,
4.9G will be more an activity next year and based on the market traction and all the conversations
I've been having with customers, clearly this will help in bridging between 4G and 5G along with
small cells being, as I said, 51% growth in small cells last year. So clearly, the next wave is
densification at higher speeds and lower latency.
A - `Matt Shimao, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Pierre. Carrie, we'll take our next question please.
Operator
The next question comes from Alex Duval of Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.Q - `Alexander Duval, Analyst, Goldman Sachs International `
Yes. Hi, everyone. I wondered if you could help us on network seasonality and how we should
think about that into the first quarter of the year. It looks like normally on an aggregate basis for
the businesses you've combined it's normally down about 20% in the first quarter, which would
seems to imply a decline probably in the mid to high single-digits of that fourth quarter base. So
just wanted to understand a little bit more about what helps you get to that 2% decline for the full
year, clearly you've laid out some positive drivers, but a little bit more color would be
appreciated? Many thanks.
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Alex. So, we think typical seasonality in our industry will be the norm, large downtick in
revenue from Q4 to Q1, Q2 typically up from Q1, Q3 can be up or down compared to Q2 and
then, of course, that depends on timing of large projects in Q4, typically the strongest quarter of
the year.
What helps us to recognize that our rate of decline has improved on a normalized basis and I can
say that on a normalized basis, we think we've moved away from double-digit year-on-year
declines, because we were single-digit down in Q4.
The order intake has been strong on some fronts like applications and analytics as I said, not yet
ready to declare victory, but that's a good sign as well. And then there are a few swing factors
that are balanced with some macroeconomic difficulties in Latin America and in Africa and Eastern
Europe, but there are some swing factors as well, U.S. could have some momentum compared to
last year and then Japan and Korea are clearly bottoming out.
There could be further acceleration in LTE in India with the entry of the new player, particularly in
mobile. And then, of course, you have possibly the wholesale network deal in Mexico that could
come to fruition and public safety in the U.S. So there are a number of things. And of course the
U.S. broadband auctions in 600 MHz and already what's happening in 700 MHz might be helpful.
But it's going to be a bit of a balance. So, clearly, the market will stabilize, we believe, in 2017
relative to 2016.
A - `Matt Shimao, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Alex. Carrie, next question please.
Operator
The next question comes from Kulbinder Garcha of Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.
Q - `Kulbinder S. Garcha, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
Thank you. My question is a two-part. It's all about costs really. The one for Rajeev is that, I guess,
the simple question is why aren't you raising your cost savings target? And the reason behind my
question is that the Networks margin last year was probably just under 9% and it's still down if you
take out the one-time items in 2015, the industry has clearly turned out to be much worse than
everyone thought probably two years ago in revenue trends. And you're making faster progress
in your savings.
But yet we're not seeing a revision upwards on targets. You had one last year, but we haven't
seen one for a while now. And this is very different from what happened when the Nokia Siemensintegration was happening. So is there some raised level of need or cost pressure for investment
that prevents you from raising the net savings number.
And my question for Kristian is, the €100 million litigation for Apple, is that incremental cost or is it
partly that you spend on and something else you don't spend on the OpEx on the net technology
side? Many thanks.
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Kulbinder. So, we have the preparedness to do something. We have cost levers in play,
should the market worsen, and we will act on those without hesitation, as I also said in my
prepared remarks. But we are also investing at this point. Because we think the diversification
opportunity with the broader portfolio that we've got with Alcatel-Lucent is clearly there. So,
cable, we're already working on a number of trials, we're heading in the right direction, we could
see deal activity this year, and probably revenues in 2018.
Web-scale, our next-generation product will come out very suitable for web-scale from an IP
routing point of view. As I said, there is more spend happening in web-scale compared to telco,
so it's a time to invest in that product and make sure we're ready for that market. We're getting
traction in optics and IP routing could be right behind that.
Large enterprises, in the extra large enterprises we had growth last year. I want to maintain that
momentum and actually increase it, so there is a bit of spend happening in the sales channel.
Public sector, public safety will be a very sizable category in itself, and then software sales force,
because we have the product portfolio and we made some bolt-on acquisitions in the past, like
Nakina and so on, but that potentially can also be a positive driver for us and especially given the
mix that comes from software.
So, investing in these few areas and 5G's hygiene and we want to make sure that we hit the fixed
wireless access used case and also be ready for the broader 3GPP acceleration in South Korea
and Japan.
So, these are the investments, but it's always about capital allocation, so we can pull the levers
should we see some of these not getting enough traction or if the market is worsening in the
primary market, and those levers absolutely we have to our hand and we'll continue our
transformation cost savings and services and so on.
A - `Kristian Pullola, Chief Financial Officer `
Maybe just to highlight still on that one, so as we said during the prepared remarks and also in
our press release, more than half of that over achievement on our cost savings for 2016 related
to lower incentive accruals given the performance that we had during 2016, that is something that
we expect to reverse and thus to be a headwind when we go into 2016 – sorry to 2017, so please
take that also into account. Then when it comes to your question on other litigation costs of
Apple incremental, the answer is, yes.
However, as I said during my prepared remarks, when it comes to investments in technologies
into Digital Health and Digital Media, we will take a very focused approach on making those
investments both when it comes to amounts and timings, so also there we have levers to pull if
there is a need to do so.
A - `Matt Shimao, Head of Investor Relations `Thank you, Kulbinder. Carrie, next question please.
Operator
The next question comes from Francois Meunier of Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `Francois A. Meunier, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Yes, a question about the OpEx, very good performance in Q4 indeed. If I compare Q4 2016
versus Q4 2015, your OpEx was down €150 million in Networks, and €115 million, €120 million for
the company, that's very good. Now, the question is, is Q4 2015 a good base of comp, because if
I remember some of the management of Alcatel paid themselves some pretty nice bonuses
before leaving, so it's basically like this €120 million decline in OpEx like the good number or the
good run rate for the beginning of next year before the additional cost cutting?
A - `Kristian Pullola, Chief Financial Officer `
So as I said, I think in 2016 we had some lower incentive accruals, that's something which will be a
headwind going into 2017. The 2015 numbers had some higher incentive accruals in them, taken
throughout the year that will be the yardstick against which we measure the success of our cost
savings actions and cost savings program that we have, and it is against that number that we
expect to deliver the €1.2 billion.
A - `Matt Shimao, Head of Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you, Francois. Carrie, we'll take our next question please.
Operator
The next question comes from `Gareth Jenkins, Analyst, UBS Ltd. of UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Gareth Jenkins, Analyst, UBS Ltd. `
Thanks. I've just got one follow-up on an earlier question and then one question, if that's okay.
The follow-up on the earlier question, Rajeev, is just you talked about your confidence of hitting
your revenue target based on bookings you're seeing, et cetera. I wondered if you could specify
that more around the IP routing business other than just traffic growth in networks please. And
then, the second question is just on sustainability of gross margins, I wondered what the puts and
takes are around your gross margin performance. Thank you.
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Gareth. So, on IP routing, we don't believe – there's been a slowdown on the telco side
because traffic have moved to the cloud providers. For us, cloud, Google, Apple, all these sorts
of enterprise centric – sorry, web-centric companies, is an untapped opportunity. Right?
What gives me confidence is that we're getting traction in Optical. We have already revenues
established there. So our next generation product will allow us to get into routing as well. And
then, there is the whole utilities, transportation, extra-large enterprises, their private LTE network,
when it's formed, most of the business actually is IP routing; a lesser part of the business is
mobile. So, those two opportunities give me a sense that, for us, it's an untapped opportunity so
there is growth potential.
On the telco side, yes, there is a bit of a slowdown, but for us the headwind of this third-partyAnd then, of course, co-routing because we have still much more momentum to have in co-
routing compared to our edge routing business, given again, the next-generation product that
will come sort of later in the year. So those are things that give me confidence in our own position
in IP routing and sort of generally in the market, if you look at the market as a broader thing.
On gross margin, of course, Q4 benefited from seasonal events, but if you look at overall 2016,
where we've had 38.5% gross margin in Networks business and we've been at both sorts of
levels now for quite some time. And to me this is a very important metric we're focused on, this
KPI matters above all.
We want to keep that gross margin strong, and so why is it that we have this? One, we continue
to always have product and services cost reductions to offset price erosion in the market.
Second, we have benefits in terms of deal quality; we're very strategic and solid around deal
quality, given our approval process. We are seeing our continued pricing discipline and now we
have applied that whole model operations also to the former Alcatel-Lucent business, and finally
we have also seen many cases over the last year where we're getting price premium.
There is attractiveness in our solution set because we have this end-to-end product portfolio.
We're increasingly been training our people to sell on value relative to price. In some areas of our
portfolio, price erosion is just lower compared to mobile, solution selling, cross-selling, whenever
you have a multi-business group deal price is of less consideration because it's really the end-to-
end solution that matters wrapped around with SI. So those are the things that suggest to me
that that's an area that we will continue to focus on very strongly.
A - `Matt Shimao, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Gareth. Carrie, let's take our next question and please limit yourself to one question
only.
Operator
The next question comes from `Stuart Jeffrey, Analyst, Natixis (United Kingdom) of Natixis. Please go ahead.
Q - `Stuart Jeffrey, Analyst, Natixis (United Kingdom) `
Thanks very much. Got a question on gross margins. Just trying to understand the leverage you
have in the business. Revenues were down quite a bit during 2016, but gross margins held up.
You've had a volume driven benefit in Q4, so as you start talking about seeing an uplift in 2018,
should we also expect that volume to have a positive impact on gross margins? And are there
any sort of counters around product mix as we go into 2018 that might impact the gross margin
positively or negatively given that a bounce back in spend tends to be more capacity than
coverage focused?
A - `Kristian Pullola, Chief Financial Officer `
So again I think, Rajeev covered pretty well how we look at the gross margin and still if you look at
the guidance that we put out today, we still expect to see slight decline in revenue and as a result
of that, I don't see any kind of additional leverage from a gross margin point of view going into
2017 so...
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Right. And Stuart, your question on 2018, should there be a rebound in the market and we did say
the primary market over the long-term is growing at 1% and our adjacent opportunities of thatmarket is growing at about 12% at Capital Markets Day. So it should that there'll be a rebound in
the market and should we be able to get into these other adjacent areas we're talking about,
naturally there would be a longer term benefit in operating leverage if the revenue would grow
and we'd keep the focus on gross margin and the strategic deal making and deal quality
continues to be a driver. But that's more 2018 onwards.
A - `Kristian Pullola, Chief Financial Officer `
Correct. And then we continue to operate in a market with tough competition so that's also
something to keep in mind for.
Q - `Stuart Jeffrey, Analyst, Natixis (United Kingdom) `
Yeah.
A - `Matt Shimao, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Stuart. Carrie, next question please.
Operator
The next question comes from Andrew Gardiner of Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `Andrew M. Gardiner, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Good afternoon. Thank you. I had another one on the OpEx side, so R&D specifically. Rajeev, you
mentioned in some of your opening comments the level of workflow that the mobile engineers in
particular are seeing as you head towards 5G. I'm just wondering sort of, what is the change
here?
Clearly, 5G has been coming, but is this – perhaps the standard-setting process is accelerating.
Are you seeing specific requests from customers for certain elements that means, again, the
workload is that much higher, or perhaps it's related to the integration still as well? Just a bit more
detail around that. And I suppose, from a specific cost point of view, does that limit the potential
for incremental savings in R&D, specifically in 2017 and therefore that's something that – should it
come through is perhaps more 2018. Thank you.
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Andrew. It's essentially got to do with the fact that we are migrating the portfolio, so you
have to ensure you're doing things on the new portfolio while still sometimes doing things on the
old portfolio, simply because the market needs it, for instance, IoT is something you might need
on the legacy portfolio, but you'll also have to ensure that you have it on the new portfolio.
So it's things like these, doing things in parallel, but it's only for a transitionary period, so by the
end of the year that should go away. We've got strong – it's not so much a money thing, it's not
an OpEx thing, because migration of portfolio from a project execution standpoint is just a more
customer driver. But it's just an effort thing, it's leadership, it's structure, it's ensuring that you
keep our efficiency and the R&D pretty (56:21) focused.
A - `Matt Shimao, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Andrew. Carrie, next question please.Operator
Our next question comes from `Sébastien Sztabowicz, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA of Kepler. Please go ahead.
Q - `Sébastien Sztabowicz, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA
Yeah. Hello. At the Capital Markets Day, you forecasted slight positive free cash flow in 2017 and
clearly positive one in 2018. Do you see any change (56:43) litigation and also some higher cash
tax expenses forecasted? Thank you.
A - `Kristian Pullola, Chief Financial Officer `
So, we still target to get to that slight positive free cash flow in 2017. Given the headwinds we
have here on tax and litigation it will be more challenging, but that's a target we have, and no
change in any of the longer-term targets that we gave at CMD.
A - `Matt Shimao, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Sébastien. Operator, we have time for our final question for today.
Operator
Our final question will come from Sandeep Deshpande of JPMorgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `Sandeep Sudhir Deshpande, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
Yes, hi. My question is on – Rajeev, on the non-core network business, I mean, buying Alcatel-
Lucent got you your footprint – significant footprint in the U.S., are there any further operators that
you need to expand footprint into, I mean there was some news flow in Japan, which indicated
that you are going to break into DOCOMO, so is that a possibility, which could potentially expand
your market?
And secondly on IPRs, given that now the Apple potential is in the long grass to some extent, is
there anything in the near term that you are working on in terms of IPR that could be seen in the
revenue, potentially, LG and then any others? Thanks.
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Sandeep. So, in terms of new possible entries and increase of coverage, cable players,
so cable players with Gainspeed, but we can also not just sell them cable access products, we
can sell them other products, IP routing, optics, and so on. So having the access through cable
access will be quite helpful in penetrating more in the U. S., especially because we have a number
of small customers there that we do quite well with.
DOCOMO, we already do business with for a few years, but if there's a rebound in the Japanese
market, I think it's bottomed out that would be helpful. There are other customers, there's a
customer in Latin America, we don't have an entry with, there is a customer in Australia and so on.
So there are a few customers we don't have a position with and that's also in our target,
especially because one of our competitors is weak.
A - `Kristian Pullola, Chief Financial Officer `
I think on IPR, so we said at CMD that the current €800 million run rate is approximately 30% of
the market, so if we now then put Apple aside, there are opportunities there, clearly finalizing theLG is one. Getting traction in China is another one and then we talked about opportunities also
outside of mobile and the team is also going after those. So, yes, there are opportunities for new
IPR revenue in addition to the Apple dispute.
A - `Matt Shimao, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Sandeep, and thank you all for your great questions today. I'm really sorry we weren't
able to get to everyone in the queue. With that, let me turn the call back to Rajeev for some
closing comments.
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Matt, and Kristian, and thanks again to all of you for joining in for the excellent questions.
I'd like to close with a few words. As I've said, 2016 was a year of transition for Nokia. We
successfully integrated Alcatel-Lucent faster-than-expected, drawing on lessons learned from
past combinations.
We launched a new strategy, made all of the key product transition decisions and aligned those
with customers, fostered a common culture and more. All of which underlines a point that when
you know which direction you should be heading, you can move faster and more effectively and
we have done that.
I'll be the first to tell you that I am pleased that we have all of the main integration work behind us
because now we can get on with it.
We know that market conditions in 2017 will remain a little challenging and competitive, although,
we expect the environment to be more stable compared to 2016 in our primary markets. The
operational foundation we now have in place, our financial strength and our disciplined results-
focused culture all put us in a much stronger position to capitalize on our bigger portfolio and
customer set, and to tap the greater number of paths available to us to grow and expand. For all
of these reasons I feel good about where Nokia ended 2016 and I believe we will raise the bar
higher in 2017.
With that, thank you very much for your time and attention. Matt, back to you.
A - `Matt Shimao, Head of Investor Relations `
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes our conference call. I would like to remind you that during
the conference call today we have made a number of forward-looking statements that involve
risk and uncertainties. Actual results may therefore differ materially from the results currently
expected. Factors that could cause such differences can be both external, such as general
economic and industry conditions, as well as internal operating factors. We have identified these
in more detail on pages 69 through 87 of our 2015 Annual Report on Form 20-F and our report
for Q4 and full-year 2016 issued today, as well as our other filings with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. Thank you.
Operator
This conference is now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now
disconnect your lines. Have a great day.