Q4 2018 Earnings Call

Operator
Hello and welcome to the Nokia Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2018 Earnings Conference Call. All
participants will be in listen-only mode. After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to
ask question. Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. `Matt Shimao, Vice President & Head-Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations. Sir,
you may begin.
`Matt Shimao, Vice President & Head-Investor Relations `
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to Nokia's fourth quarter and full year 2018 conference call. I'm
`Matt Shimao, Vice President & Head-Investor Relations, Head of Nokia Investor Relations. `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer, President and CEO of Nokia; and
`Kristian Pullola, Chief Financial Officer, CFO of Nokia, are here in Espoo with me today.
During this call, we'll be making forward-looking statements regarding the future business and
financial performance of Nokia and its industry. These statements are predictions that involve risk
and uncertainties. Actual results may therefore differ materially from the results we currently
expect.
Factors that could cause such differences can be both external, such as general economic and
industry conditions as well as internal operating factors. We have identified such risk in more
detail on pages 71 through 89 of our 2017 Annual Report on Form 20-F, our financial report for Q4
and full-year 2018 issued today as well as our other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.Please note that our results release, the complete interim report with tables and the presentation
on our website include non-IFRS results information in addition to the reported results
information. Our complete financial report with tables available on our website includes a detailed
explanation of the content of the non-IFRS information and a reconciliation between the non-IFRS
and the reported information.
With that, Rajeev, over to you.
`Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Matt, and thanks to all of you for joining today. Nokia closed the year with a strong fourth
quarter. As you will remember, our view at the start of 2018 was that Nokia's performance would
strengthen in the second half of the year. That is exactly what happened. You could see
momentum accelerating in Q3 and then even more in Q4.
Now, to be clear, it was not a perfect quarter and I will discuss that more shortly, but we saw
several positive developments.
First, sales growth, Q4 constant currency sales were up nicely on a year-on-year basis. We grew
3% at the Nokia level, by about 6% for Networks and by 11% in recurring licensing revenue in Nokia
Technologies.
Pleasingly Q4 was the second consecutive quarter in which all of our Networks business groups
delivered year-on-year constant currency growth. Full-year constant currency growth sales also
increased 1% at the Nokia level, about 2% for Networks and 11% in recurring licensing revenue for
Nokia Technologies.
With the strong performance in Networks, we believe that we gained share in our primary
addressable market in 2018 on a constant currency basis. While the final analysis is still to come,
we expect the assessment to show a 1% to 2% year-on-year decline for the market in 2018 versus
our roughly 2% constant currency growth in Networks.
It is too early to be precise about exactly where those gains came from, but I would point to small
cells and optical as two areas where we gained meaningful share. The second positive
development in the quarter was profitability. Operating margin was up across the board at the
Nokia level for Networks and for Nokia Technologies.
Our full-year profitability was dragged down by the slow first half. That said, even if it was not
what we aspired to, I believe our performance was not bad in the context of the year that was
quite challenging for the industry overall. In fact, with the very strong Q4 push across all of Nokia,
we were able to end the year with Networks' operating margin within our full-year guidance
range.
Finally, we saw some areas of strength in both the quarter and the full year that reflect the good
progress we're making in the execution of our strategy. And I just want to highlight, a few of the
areas that I'm particularly pleased with.
Top of the list is Nokia Software. After three years of building a solid foundation for a strong
software business, we are starting to see to the right results. On a constant currency basis, this
strategic area grew by 12% in Q4 and 4% for the full year and with healthy profitability. We have
verticalized the business, renewed much of our sales organization and processes and rewritten
our software products on to a modern cloud-native and common software foundation. And we
were rated in the quarter by Analysys Mason as the leading telco software business. There isNext is the progress in our strategic effort to grow Nokia Enterprise. As you are aware, from
January 1, all of our enterprise-specific activities were consolidated into Nokia Enterprise, our new
business group. In 2018, we delivered constant currency sales growth of 9% in the enterprise
space, excluding the third-party business that we are exiting and posted solid profitability.
With these results, I'm pleased, but not fully satisfied. There is more to do and I continue to
believe that there is still a lot of runway for Nokia Enterprise to grow. The momentum is certainly
there.
In Q4 alone, we added 61 new customers and we now have a solid base of approximately 1,000
enterprise customers, providing a strong footprint on which we can build further. And there is no
slowing down. I have talked to many enterprise customers in recent months. Those conversations
strengthen my conviction that as organizations of all kinds seek to digitalize their operations,
there is strong demand for Nokia's products and services.
We have a clear opportunity in the form of private wireless networks, both 4G and 5G, an
increasing demand for public safety systems as well as routing, optical and digital automation
solutions to support the industrial Internet and more.
Last on my list of highlights is North America. Ricky Corker and the team knocked the ball out of
the park in Q4, growing year-on-year constant currency sales by 17% and by 5% for the full year.
One of the key drivers of this growth was operators preparing their networks for the fast arrival
of 5G.
Our success in this market puts Nokia in a strong position to benefit across the full end-to-end 5G
cycle. We continue to see excellent progress with the big players in North America and we added
our fifth 5G customer in North America in Q4. We also see further growth possibilities over the
longer term in the region, particularly in both the Software and Enterprise segments.
In short, there was lots of good in how we delivered in Q4 and for the full year, but as I said at the
start, some areas that were not so good. As you will have seen in our earnings release, we just
missed our guidance for having slightly positive recurring free cash flow for the year despite an
increase in net cash of €1.2 billion in the fourth quarter. We are redoubling our efforts in this area
in 2019 and I know we can and we will do better.
Also, as you will remember, I said in our last call that we saw risks as we headed to the end of the
year, largely related to project timings and product deliveries. Some of those risks did in fact
materialize in the fourth quarter, although we were able to offset them by capturing upsides in
other areas, particularly in North America.
Looking ahead, I expect those risks to carry over into at least the first half of 2019. To be clear, I
have absolutely no doubt that a fast and meaningful shift to 5G is underway. But there are several
factors that point to 2019 being very second-half loaded, similar to what we saw in 2018.
The first is the staggered nature of 5G rollouts. A small number of lead countries will start rollouts
that accelerate over the course of this year. As is typical in large technology transitions however,
more general adoption will go at a slightly slower pace with a broader ramp-up starting at the tail-
end of 2019 and in 2020.
The second reason for a back-half loaded year is that the 5G ecosystem, standards, chipsets and
devices, is still in its early days. We expect this to stabilize in the coming months, but it means that
development and testing are operating under considerable time pressure.The final reason is that while Nokia has a massive amount of 5G-ready hardware already
deployed and we ended 2018 with a backlog considerably larger than the previous year,
conversion of orders and backlog to sales could be somewhat slower than normal.
Some of the hardware that is being deployed is waiting for the availability and acceptance of the
key 5G software releases. Those releases will come available as the year progresses. When you
put this all together, I think it is safe to say that 2019 will be one focused on full-year results, not
those of individual quarters.
Despite these risks, I do believe that 2019 will be better than 2018 for both Nokia and the market.
In fact, we expect conditions in our primary market to improve to being around flat for 2019 from
being slightly down last year. We also expect Nokia to again outgrow the market on a constant
currency basis, given our strong early traction in 5G and progress in Software and Enterprise.
We see a number of potential upside catalysts for the market, the largest being in North America,
Japan and China. In North America, as I noted, we have been performing very well. And as key 5G
products come to market, our competitive position will strengthen, particularly in the second half.
Japan also has the potential for upside, given overall competitive dynamics in the country's
hosting of the fast approaching Olympics in 2020. Given that we are working with all three
leading operators on 5G as well as with new entrant, Rakuten, any market acceleration in Japan
would almost certainly benefit Nokia.
When it comes to China, we will continue to be prudent given the well-known profitability
challenges. We certainly remain committed to the market, but the investment needs are not small
and we need to see a clear path to long-term profitability in deals that we take. There are also
risks in the year and there's been a lot of talk recently about worsening economic conditions and
the impact of the ongoing U.S.-China trade dispute.
These issues are a concern, but we would expect in any economic downturn that many
governments would still look to boost spending on 5G infrastructure by taking actions such as
accelerating the release of spectrum. They would do so given the competition among countries
to be 5G leaders and, more importantly, as a way to provide both a near-term stimulus and a
long-term productivity boost.
In summary, we see a 2019 that is better than 2018. We expect to outgrow the market again on a
constant currency basis, as I said, and are targeting improved profitability. We have set a goal for
2019 of earnings per share of €0.25 to €0.29 and a group level operating margin of 9% to 12%.
We also see a path to end the year with slightly positive recurring free cash flow.
Over the longer-term, we continue to believe that 5G will drive a virtuous investment cycle that
plays to Nokia's full portfolio strengths.
Now, let me explain what I mean by virtuous investment cycle. It begins with radio access
networks being upgraded to 5G in key early markets like the U.S., Japan and Korea. Those
upgrades then drive the need for higher capacity transport connectivity to data centers and that
means more backhaul networks using IP routing and optical infrastructure.
Then, operators need fixed wireless access to expand the last-mile connectivity options and this
is a revenue opportunity that we are well placed to tap. Not only do we already have a huge
amount of 5G-ready hardware in the field, but we're accelerating deliveries of Massive MIMO and
the recently announced fixed wireless access products, which help operators with their Ultra-
Broadband deployments.In fact, Nokia has the most complete fixed wireless portfolio, which includes our Wireless PON
solution that greatly extends the reach of fiber networks. Then, by the time 5G begins in follower
countries, like parts of Europe and India, the early adopter countries enter a second stage of 5G,
characterized by large-scale deployment of millimeter wave cells with smaller coverage areas,
which in turn accelerates RAN virtualization and drives edge cloud build-outs.
Next in the cycle comes network slicing and the build-out of the software systems and platforms
that orchestrate and manage networks with automation. Enterprises in key industry verticals, like
manufacturing, transportation and energy, build private networks to suit their individual needs for
performance, reliability and security. As they connect these networks to the global networks, this
creates more traffic and demand overall.
I could go on, but I think you get the point about this stepped cycle and how new technology
needs are triggered. And only Nokia can really take full advantage of the cycle given our end-to-
end portfolio, global presence and growing offering for enterprise customers.
With that, let me share some more detailed perspective on Nokia's Q4, starting with our business
groups and then some of our market regions. I talked earlier about Nokia Software and so I will
skip them here and go right to Mobile Networks.
Our trajectory is good in Mobile Networks. We saw constant currency sales growth of about 7% in
Q4, helping that business close the full year with slight growth compared to 2017 when constant
currency sales fell about 4%. I think those results reflect the strength of our customer
relationships in complete product offering. We have more than 70 5G trials underway and have 1
commercial deal with operators in all of the early mover markets and many beyond.
Global Services saw good Q4 year-on-year gains in both its gross margin and operating margin
and closed the year with a nice order book and backlog. That said, we still have work to improve
GS profitability and are focused on improving serviceability and total cost of ownership as well as
improving or exiting underperforming projects and sharpening contract and commercial
management.
In our IP Routing and Optical Networks business, I was very pleased to see IP Routing return to
growth with constant currency sales up significantly in Q4. We are feeling very positive about our
momentum in routing given the positive reception to our FP4-based products as well as our
successful mitigation of the component shortages that we experienced last year.
Optical, on the other hand, saw a sales decline in the quarter, but for the full year they were up a
very solid 12% in constant currency compared to 2017. In Fixed Networks, the 2% constant
currency sales growth in the quarter was a positive sign. In addition, the group continues to
deliver solid profitability even as it invests in future growth opportunities, including in cable, fixed
wireless access and home WiFi.
Finally, let me also say a few words on Nokia Technologies, which saw both recurring licensing
revenue up sharply and solid profitability. We also signed an important new licensing deal in the
quarter with OPPO in China and move forward with the (15:40) consortium to expand in the
automotive sector.
Turning to our regional performance, as I've already addressed North America and China, let me
start with Europe. After facing a challenging market the past years, we closed 2018 with a full-year
top line that was flat in constant currency compared to 2017 and with improved profitability.One highlight in the region was that we remained number one in EMEA in IP edge routing in Q2
and Q3 2018 according to a recent IHS Market report.
Next, our Latin America region not only nicely increased its year-on-year constant currency sales in
the quarter, but was up by 18% for the full year, an excellent performance and we are clearly
taking share.
Our Asia-Pacific market grew its constant currency sales by 5% in the quarter with our India
operations the key driver. India closed 2018 in stellar fashion, growing year-on-year constant
currency sales in Q4 for a ninth straight quarter with strength across all our business groups.
Much of the rest of Asia-Pacific has been somewhat challenging, although we expect
improvement in the region in 2019 as 5G ramps in Korea and Japan.
Finally, Middle East and Africa performed well and grew its 2018 sales by 2% in constant currency
versus 2017, gaining market share and reflecting the traction that our end-to-end portfolio is
getting in key markets like Saudi Arabia and North Africa.
So, all-in-all, 2018 was a challenging year, albeit one that we managed through reasonably well.
2019 should be better and 2020 even better than that. Pressure to deliver remains high and
there are risks ahead, but Nokia remains well positioned with a strong portfolio.
With that, let me turn the call over to Kristian.
`Kristian Pullola, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Rajeev. Today, I will talk about a number of topics, including the financial performance
on Nokia Technologies and Group Common and Other as well as taxes, financial income and
expenses and our cash performance. I will then provide some details on our new reporting
structure and how new reporting standards are expected to impact our financial results as we
move to 2019. And finally, I'll discuss the guidance we provided today.
Nokia Technologies closed 2018 by delivering another strong quarter in Q4. Net sales in the
quarter totaled €423 million, a decline of 24% compared to the year-ago quarter. The decline
was due to lower onetime licensing in net sales. Excluding the onetime impacts, our recurring
licensing revenues increased 11% year-on-year, reflecting solid progress signing new licensees.
Operating margin for Technologies was 82% in the fourth quarter, a significant improvement
compared to 70% in the year-ago quarter. This improvement was driven by our exit from digital
media and digital health as well as lower litigation and business support function costs.
Touching briefly on our results for Group Common and Other in Q4, overall net sales decreased
by 16% year-on-year on a reported basis and 12% on a constant currency basis. The decrease was
primarily driven by Alcatel Submarine Networks, where net sales in the year-ago quarter
benefited from specific projects that were completed at the beginning of 2018. Group Common
and Other's operating loss worsened year-on-year in Q4, primarily related to a net negative
fluctuation in other income and expense and to a lesser extent by lower gross profit in ASN.
Moving to Nokia-level results, our non-IFRS tax rate in Q4 was 28%, resulting in a full-year non-
IFRS tax rate of 31%. Looking at non-IFRS financial income and expenses in Q4, our year-on-year
results mainly reflect higher interest expenses due to the presentation of certain costs following
the adoption of IFRS 15.At the Nokia level, our non-IFRS diluted EPS was €0.13 in Q4, flat compared to the year-ago
quarter. If we exclude onetime licensing net sales, our non-IFRS diluted EPS would have increased
by approximately €0.02 year-on-year.
On a recurring basis, our EPS performance was primarily driven by our gross profit performance
as well as lower operating expenses in Nokia Technologies. These were partly offset by foreign
exchange hedging, higher taxes and higher financial expenses. For the full year, our non-IFRS EPS
was €0.23 coming in at the lower-end of our 2018 guidance range.
Next, moving to our cash performance, on a sequential basis, Nokia's net cash increased by
approximately €1.2 billion to a quarter-end balance of approximately €3.1 billion. Net cash from
operating activities was approximately €1.4 billion.
Within this Nokia's adjusted profit before changes in net working capital was €980 million in the
fourth quarter. Excluding restructuring, we generated an increase in net cash related to net
working capital of approximately €540 million. Restructuring amounted to approximately €140
million.
Looking at net working capital, the majority of the change was due to liabilities, which increased
approximately €460 million, primarily due to the seasonal increase in accounts payable as well as
our efforts to drive better accounts payable terms.
Receivables decreased by approximately €50 million as an increase in sale of receivables partly
offset the seasonal increase in receivables. Inventories decreased by approximately €30 million
as the seasonal decrease in inventories was partly offset by continued ramp-ups in anticipation of
5G deliveries and acceptances in 2019.
Cash taxes amounted to an inflow of €10 million in the quarter, benefiting from a tax refund of
approximately €110 million. Foreign exchange rates had approximately €120 million negative
impact on net cash, primarily related to certain hedging activities, partly offset by related positive
impacts in liabilities within net working capital.
In addition to these items, net cash used in investing activities, primarily related to approximately
€170 million of CapEx, which was partly offset by approximately €80 million of cash inflows related
to the sale of certain assets.
While our Q4 cash performance was solid overall, we fell just short of our full-year guidance for
slightly positive free cash flow. And as Rajeev emphasized, we are not satisfied with our free cash
flow performance and we are focused on delivering better working capital execution going
forward.
As we announced in conjunction with our Q3 results, we are changing our reporting structure in
2019 to better reflect our strategy, our organizational structure and the way we evaluate
performance and allocate resources. This will also impact how we provide guidance, which I will
come back to in a minute.
Effective January 1, we now have three reportable segments, Networks; Nokia Software; and
Nokia Technologies. For each of these segments, we will provide full P&L down to operating
profit. We will also continue to report segment-level data for Group Common and Other.
Additionally, Nokia will provide adjusted financial disclosure for its Networks and Nokia Software
reportable segments with amounts related to Nokia Technologies and Nokia Bell Labs, allocated85% to Networks and 15% to Nokia Software. This is also in accordance with industry practice and
improves comparability with peer companies.
In addition, we will disclose net sales for Mobile Access, Fixed Access, IP Routing and Optical,
which together comprise the new Networks reportable segments. There are two notable
changes to the structure that I want to highlight. First, activities related to our cloud core offering
will be reclassified from the former Mobile Networks business group and former Global Services
reportable segment to the new Nokia Software reportable segment.
Second, activities related to the former Nokia Mobile Networks business group and former Global
Services reportable segment that are not reclassified to the new Nokia Software reportable
segment will be reported together under the new Mobile Access business.
Furthermore, we will also start providing net sales for our three customer types, communication
service providers; enterprises; and licensees. Finally, we will disclose net sales by region at the
Nokia level.
Prior to publishing our Q1 results, we intend to provide re-casted financials for all four quarters of
2018 according to this new structure. Regarding new accounting standards, there are two things I
want to bring to your attention for 2019. First, under IFRS 15, we will begin reporting order backlog
on a quarterly basis. You will find this first time in our 2018 Annual Report when it's published in
March.
Secondly, under IFRS 16, there will be a balance sheet adjustment mainly related to Nokia's real
estate-related operating leases. While we are still assessing the full impact of IFRS 16, we expect
an impact of approximately €1 billion increasing our fixed assets and increasing our liabilities.
Finally, turning to guidance, during Q4 2018, we announced organizational changes to accelerate
our strategy execution as I just discussed. Related to this, we are now providing guidance at
Nokia level only. In addition to being aligned with how we manage our business, this will also
improve our comparability with our peer companies.
While we are deliberately focusing our guidance on Nokia level-only metrics, we will be
supplementing that by providing actual results and forward-looking commentary for Networks,
Nokia Software and Nokia Technologies.
Looking specifically at full-year 2019, at Nokia level, we expect our operating income to be
between 9% and 12% and we expect our non-IFRS diluted EPS to be between €0.25 and €0.29.
We anticipate full-year 2019 to follow a similar pattern as 2018, a soft first half with a particularly
weak Q1, followed by a robust second half, supported by a meaningful 5G acceleration.
For your models, we have also provided clear assumptions for non-operating items, which we
would like you to follow for consistency. We expect our non-IFRS tax rate to be approximately
28% for 2019 and approximately 25% over the longer-term, and for financial income and
expenses to be an expense of approximately €300 million in 2019 and also for the longer-term.
Regarding our cost savings program, in Q4, we achieved our €1.2 billion target, which was largely
focused on eliminating duplication. We are now shifting to the next phase of our cost savings, our
€700 million plan, which is about optimizing Nokia's operations across the board.
You can find more details related to these plans on pages 8 to 9 in our Q4 press release. Of the
€700 million of savings, approximately €200 million will come from cost of sales and €500 million
from operating expenses. While we expect to start to see these savings materialize in 2019, weexpect the majority to come in 2020. The reference period is full-year 2018 results, in which
Nokia-level non-IFRS operating expenses totaled €6.9 billion.
Our ongoing network equipment swap program is also nearing completion, with the remaining
€150 million of charges and outflows expected in 2019. Regarding cash, we expect our recurring
free cash flow to be slightly positive in 2019. Free cash flow continues to be a very important
metric for Nokia and, I said earlier, an area where we are focused on improving execution. For full-
year 2019, we expect approximately €450 million of cash outflows related to taxes and
approximately €700 million of capital expenditure.
Turning briefly to 2020, we have today reiterated the Nokia-level guidance metrics that we
provided previously. And we remain confident we will achieve these targets.
Lastly, on our annual dividend, the dividend to shareholders continues to be Nokia's principal
method of distributing earnings to shareholders. And Nokia continues to target to deliver a
growing earnings-based dividend.
Over the long-term, Nokia targets to grow the dividend by distributing approximately 40% to
70% of non-IFRS diluted EPS, taking into account Nokia's cash position as well as cash flow
generation. Beginning with the distribution for 2018, Nokia plans to pay quarterly dividends going
forward.
In addition, Nokia intends to implement the dividend fee for ADR holders consistent with market
practice. Nokia's board plans to propose a dividend of €0.20 per share for 2018, which is a 5%
increase compared to the dividend for 2017.
With that, I hand over to Matt for Q&A.
`Matt Shimao, Vice President & Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Kristian. For the Q&A session, please limit yourself to one question only. Kerry, please
go ahead.
Q&A
Operator
The first question will come from Andrew Gardiner of Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `Andrew M. Gardiner, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Good afternoon, gentlemen. Thanks for taking the question. I had one, perhaps for both of you
on the margin guidance for 2019. If I look at the midpoint, let's call it 10.5%, that's a slight
expansion from the adjusted margin you reported last year of 9.7%. You've already outlined how
sort of the top line should be flat to up given the flattish end-market and a little bit of share gain.
You've got the benefit of sort of the final stage of the cost saving plan from last year as well as a
little bit of savings from the second phase that you just outlined, Kristian.
And so, you've given those OpEx savings with a flattish to growing top line, it implies that you
think gross margins of flat to maybe even down depending on where you come in the range in
2019. Yet, Rajeev, you also highlighted sort of some of the positive trends both product and
regional that are in your favor in 2019. So, can you help us sort of bridge that gap? Is pricing
getting worse? What's leading you to be more cautious in terms of the gross margin
progression? Thank you.A - `Kristian Pullola, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Andrew. Maybe I'll start here. So I think everything you laid out in your question
makes sense. So, maybe I'll focus on the puts and takes on gross margin as we see it. Yes, there
are some positives, but then, on the other hand, we are going through a technology cycle here
where it's normal that the early deals will be competitive and thus, there will be some kind of
margin pressure coming from that.
Also, when the new technology cycle starts to ramp up, in the early deliveries, there will be a
higher content of hardware and services, which also then has a slightly negative mix. On the other
hand, you then have kind of current technologies where investment levels are going down, where
you will have an offsetting impact coming from that. Overall, we are not seeing a change in the
pricing dynamics or the competitive nature. So, there are some puts and calls here on gross
margin as we work through the early phases of the 5G cycle.
A - `Matt Shimao, Vice President & Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Andrew. Kerry, we'll take our next question, please.
Operator
The next question will be from `David Mulholland, Analyst, UBS Ltd. of UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `David Mulholland, Analyst, UBS Ltd. `
That's great. And thanks very much. So, just following off from the last question by looking more
2020, you've obviously reiterated all of your group-level targets, but we don't have the same
visibility on the kind of underlying elements of that between Technologies and Networks. So, I
wonder if you could just comment on whether there has been any shift in your expectations for
either size of Technologies and profit there versus Networks' margins as you go forward to 2020
and what reiterating those group targets, that would be really helpful.
A - `Kristian Pullola, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I think maybe I'll start and Rajeev can chip in. So, clearly going from 2019 to 2020, we see
the 5G deliveries not only being kind of lead markets, but lead markets being in volume and then
the next markets coming on board. So, that's why we see improved market conditions and from
that improved growth prospects for the company, which will help on creating scale and operating
leverage.
On top of that, we see our efforts in Software as well as in Enterprise further yielding growth
opportunities and thus, additional margin. And in addition to that, as I said, the full impact from
the €700 million cost savings program that we are currently executing will be seen in that 2020
timeframe and that will then further improve our profitability and help us deliver towards the
margin guidance that we have for 2020.
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, David. There's not much more to add. Kristian covered it quite comprehensively. I guess,
the only thing I'll remind is as I said in my prepared remarks, this virtuous investment cycle will
take hold that I mentioned from optical to macro radio for coverage to fixed wireless access to
network agnostic software to IP Routing upgrades back to optical for fronthaul and then macro
capacity and then small cells and millimeter wave for densification.So, all this will take hold. And as countries are not staggered anymore in terms of 5G rollouts in
2020, we would get more benefit from this virtuous investment cycle and then to say that Phase
II will kick in, which is this private wireless thing, 5G as well as 4G for industrial IoT opportunities.
A - `Kristian Pullola, Chief Financial Officer `
And then, the licensing opportunities around tech, there is still people to go to get into the
paying family. And we have additional Chinese, we have the auto, we have the industrial IoT
devices and so on and that will help us drive also growth together with the brand licensing
activities for Nokia Technologies.
A - `Matt Shimao, Vice President & Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, David. Kerry, we'll take our next question, please.
Operator
The next question will be from `Sandeep Deshpande, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc of JPMorgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `Sandeep Deshpande, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
Thank you for letting me on. Rajeev, my question to you is I mean you've changed your
commentary for the market progression into 2019, at the same time, you are indicating that you
should see improved market conditions in 2019 versus 2018 and that's potentially Nokia will grow
in 2019. I mean can you answer this? I mean what has changed in terms of – has there been any
change in terms of your view on Nokia market share into 2019?
And secondly, with regard to Nokia product and does that remain fully competitive and that
essentially is – as you said in your opening remarks that there are some puts and takes in terms
of how the rollout is occurring, if the rollout was to be faster from your customers, then
essentially things might be better during the year overall?
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Sandeep. A couple of things of – but overall the big picture is the same, right? So,
2019 will be better than 2018. 2020 will be better than 2019. We see growth in 2020. 5G, every
major customer is thinking and talking about 5G. 5G is underway. It's going to happen. Private
wireless is also going to happen in the Enterprise side.
I guess couple of things I would say. One, the market is flat or flattish in 2019 because of this
staggered country rollout in 5G. Lead countries start during the year as opposed to for the full
year. North America would be the full year. The other countries are starting midway during the
year.
Second, the 5G ecosystem is still evolving. It is stable, but it is evolving. And it will evolve more
and more during the year. And allow me to just spend a little bit more time on explaining this,
because what happens with the 5G ecosystem is, first, hardware needs to be available. We have
got plenty of hardware largely in place today in many markets, which will be upgraded to 5G.
Second, standards need locked. And some elements of the standards are still moving, not for the
first part of mobile broadband or enhanced mobile broadband, but more for the networks slicing
part will come a bit later.Third, chipsets devices need to be available. The chipset baseline has been moving until quite
recently. And fourth, of course, the software ready to be used with devices in interoperability
testing and all that's under development right now.
Hence, 2019 being staggered and then first half – second half commentary that we talked about.
Having said that, we've also talked about some upsides, maybe North America could get better,
maybe Japan will get better than currently anticipated and then, maybe China could start a more
accelerated rollout than currently predicted in 5G.
A - `Matt Shimao, Vice President & Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Sandeep. Kerry, next question, please.
Operator
The next question will come from `Achal Sultania, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.
Q - `Achal Sultania, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Hi. Good afternoon. Rajeev, you mentioned about 70 5G trials in your remarks. Can you just
maybe help us understand how you're doing with in terms of customer acceptances? How easy
has been the path of upgradability from 4G to 5G? How competitive your product is versus
Ericsson and Huawei in general? Any feedback from customers and what you're seeing would be
helpful?
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Achal. First, our 4G product is out there, the ASKL (40:41) product. Right? We're getting
fantastic feedback on the 4G product. I mean with the migration in North America, but also
elsewhere, the throughput, the capacity, the uplink, the downlink is meaningfully better than our
competition. So, kudos to our team for putting on a product that customer is just commenting
favorably every other day.
Second, that product is upgradeable to 5G. Right? And you remember the ReefShark and so, on
the baseband, ReefShark chipsets have already been shipping. The other part of the family of
ReefShark will start shipping later in 2019 and 2020.
And then, I think it cannot be underestimated this virtuous investment cycle and upgrade of
multiple domains and how well positioned we are end-to-end as the only player that plays on a
global basis. And we've seen evidence of that. We've seen us benefit from routing compared to
our peers from 5G, obviously also from the Enterprise side, but notably from 5G, we've seen
optical, we've gained meaningful share in 2018 because of the fact that optical goes first before
you start putting radio and so on.
So, both on the whole as well as on the upgradability we are as good as anybody else.
A - `Matt Shimao, Vice President & Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Achal. Kerry, next question, please.
Operator
The next question will come from `Sébastien Sztabowicz, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA from Kepler. Please go ahead.Yeah. Thanks for taking my question. You mentioned your addressable market broadly stable this
year. Could you provide a little bit more granularity by end-markets? Where do you see some
growth opportunity in the market in your different segment and where do see some downward
pressures? Thank you.
A - `Kristian Pullola, Chief Financial Officer `
The overall market flattish, primarily just market, which regions...
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Right, right. We see, of course, 5G rolling out fully in North America. So, that will be a growth
opportunity. We see that Japan could offer upside as I commented especially, because we work
with all of the operators. Korea could offer that. Latin America did very well in 2018. So, we'll have
bit of a tough compare, but the momentum is there. Middle East and Africa, partially in Middle
East, some of the 5G activity will start. So, that will be beneficial.
Lots of Asia-Pacific are weak, Southeast Asia and sort of both countries are not a very strong.
India has been quite – done quite well, but the compare will become in 2019. And then, you have
Nordics that will accelerate 5G, so that could provide a boost. China, bit hard to say in terms of
the exact timing for 5G. I will say that, in China, we would be prudent given the profitability
challenges when we look at 5G, because it could be a reasonable investment and we will have
our focus squarely on the long term as we make those decisions in China.
Nokia Software has growth momentum, but I want to remind you, Nokia Software will now have
the Applications business, which is all about BSS, OSS, policy charging, analytics, customer
experience management and now we're moving to core there. And core will go through a
transition of moving from bare metal to cloud and that will be a drag on Nokia Software to some
extent, but the Applications business I see ongoing momentum. Enterprise, I'm very convinced
that their momentum is strong and rock solid.
Q - `Sébastien Sztabowicz, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA
Europe?
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Europe, so Europe has – of course, we've had a good trend in Europe last year with increased
probability as well as flattish. It depends a bit on the 5G timing, which we can't say with 100%
conviction yet beyond Nordics. There a couple of other countries looking at 5G too, but in terms
of routing and the pre-5G things, optical and so on, we have good momentum there.
A - `Matt Shimao, Vice President & Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Sébastien. Kerry, next question, please.
Operator
The next question will come from `Alexander Peterc, Analyst, Societe Generale Corporate and Investment Banking of Societe Generale CIB. Please go ahead.
Q - `Alexander Peterc, Analyst, Societe Generale Corporate and Investment Banking `
Yes. Hi. And thanks for taking my question. I would just like to come back a little bit on how growth
will be phased throughout 2019. You are highlighting a particularly weak Q1, but you didn't provideend the year at plus 6% like-for-like constant FX in Networks, which is pretty good. So, are we
going to go into declines in the early part of the year, particularly in Q1 and then, more meaningful
growth in the second half?
And just, generally, are we going see the same split of H2 versus H1 as in 2018? And then just,
secondly, if you could just touch upon the slowdown in the smartphone market, you have to – your
largest licensee that have issued meaningful warnings in revenue and are reporting lower
revenue. So, is this going to bear any consequence for your licensing or do you have enough
tailwind with your new licenses being signed up? Thanks.
A - `Kristian Pullola, Chief Financial Officer `
I think maybe on the first part of your question, so as we said in our release today and in the
prepared remarks, we do anticipate a similar pattern during 2019 as we saw during 2018, so a
weaker first half, particularly Q1 and then, a stronger second half. As Rajeev said, it's partly driven
by the fact that the 5G rollouts will be staggered. It's partly driven by the fact that the 5G
ecosystem is evolving. And as said in the prepared remarks, that will then mean that getting the
software out and getting software acceptances will happen in more during the latter half of the
year.
I think when it comes to your second question, I think it's fair to say that a big portion of the
licensees that we have done are more fixed in nature. And then, just as a reminder, many of
those licensees are also paid up from a cash point of view to a big extent at the time when the
deal is done. So, in a similar way, as we haven't seen a lot of movement up with a stronger
smartphone market, we don't expect that a slower smartphone market would have a meaningful
impact on the revenues of Nokia Technologies.
A - `Matt Shimao, Vice President & Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Alex. We'll take our next question please, Kerry.
Operator
The next question will be from `Paul Silverstein, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC of Cowen. Please go ahead.
Q - `Paul Silverstein, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Thanks very much. I was hoping you could give some quantification of the beneficial impact as
Enterprise grows on your margin structure. Any quantification will be appreciated.
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Paul. I think the point is about Enterprise margins, right? I think we don't break out those
margins except to say that basically Enterprise is margin accretive for us.
A - `Matt Shimao, Vice President & Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Paul. We'll move on to the next question, Kerry.
Operator
The next question will come from `Stefan Slowinski, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas of Exane BNP. Please go ahead.
Q - `Stefan Slowinski, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas `Yes. Thanks for letting me on the call, guys. Just wanted to question on your dividend policy. Just
saw that that's been changed, wondering why it's going to be reviewed quarterly. And will you be
paying the first quarterly dividend after the AGM? And does this mean that the fourth installment
would actually come in beginning of 2020? Thank you very much.
A - `Kristian Pullola, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So, maybe I'll take that. So, first of all, our dividend policy has not been changed. We
continue to target a growing dividend. We continue to target a growing dividend by aiming to pay
40% to 70% of non-IFRS EPS, taking into account cash position and our cash flow.
What we have changed to, on the one hand, deliver more continuous return to shareholders as
well as to improve the company capital and liquidity management position as well as then to align
more with our peers, particularly our U.S. peers, is the payment pattern of that dividend policy.
You are right, we will now pay on a quarterly basis, the first installment will be paid after the AGM
and the last installment of the year will be paid thus in the first quarter. So, you will be receiving a
dividend from Nokia each quarter throughout the year and the last one related to the 2018
dividend will thus be paid in the first quarter of 2020.
A - `Matt Shimao, Vice President & Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Stefan. Kerry, next question, please.
Operator
The next question will come from Amit Harchandani of Citigroup. Please go ahead.
Q - `Amit B. Harchandani, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Good afternoon, all, and good morning. Amit Harchandani from Citi, and thanks for taking my
question. I'm trying to better understand the pricing dynamics at this stage. I note that, on one
hand, in your release you've talked about price erosion exceeding cost erosion in some of your
key geographies, including North America. At the same time, we have heard some customers talk
about the fact that any potential action against the Chinese could trigger a price inflation within
the industry.
So, I guess I'm just trying to understand how do you think about offsetting this balance between
price erosion and cost erosion and in terms of how you plan to address it, particularly when I look
at the margins that you talk about in 2019 and, more importantly, the margin jump that seems to
be baked into 2020 ambition? So, any comments around pricing would be much appreciated.
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Amit. I think I'll start here. So, first of all, we are very data-driven in terms of measuring
our pricing both backwards and as well as what contracts we're signing up to or what we're
approving on a forward basis for predictions. And so, the overall pricing environment has not
changed. So, it's stable, neutral.
I think what we commented last year was that we had some price erosion in North America to do
with the acceleration of 5G, which they wanted to accommodate within the same CapEx. Our
target is always for cost erosion to exceed price erosion of course. So, no change overall is what I
would say. You will see some situations where because of the new technology inflection point
that there might be some aggression for market-to-market, but overall it's not changed.On the China topic, it's not something that's the right time for us to comment on. The situation is
still very much in flux and the outcome is for governments to decide, not Nokia. Of course, if our
customers ask for support, we will give it, but at this time, we are closely watching developments.
A - `Kristian Pullola, Chief Financial Officer `
And maybe to your question on how does pricing link to the 2020 targets, I would say that
achieving the 2020 targets is not pricing-driven. It's more driven by us benefiting from the 5G
cycle as I discussed earlier, us executing on our strategy, regarding Software and Enterprise as
well as then, us getting the benefit from the cost reductions that we are driving. And that will
improve margins from 2019 to 2020 in addition to then the growth that we expect in Nokia
Technologies.
A - `Matt Shimao, Vice President & Head-Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you, Amit. Kerry, next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from Simon Leopold of Raymond James. Please go ahead.
Q - `Simon M. Leopold, Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
Thank you for taking my question. Maybe following up on the China question, I certainly can
appreciate that any share shifts outside of China from Huawei would take some time. But I'd like
to hear your perspectives on what you're hearing from your customers and your engagement
and if customers would opt to move away from Huawei and particularly those customers outside
of China and United States, how long would do such a process take to play out? Thank you.
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Simon. I'm just going to repeat that. So, we have been watching closely
developments. The situation is still very much in flux and when the time comes, we will be there
to help our customers.
A - `Matt Shimao, Vice President & Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Simon. Kerry, next question, please.
Operator
The next question will come from Tim Long of BMO Capital Markets. Please go ahead.
Q - `Timothy Patrick Long, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States) `
Thank you. Just wanted to ask about kind of the enterprise as well as the cloud players,
particularly I guess as it relates to the newer routers, FP4 products. So, can you just give us an
update on how you are developing with some of the large cloud players and maybe how you
think you can execute and grow more in some of the larger enterprises as well? Thank you.
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Tim. Routing overall, we are deviating in terms of performance from some of our
peers in a positive way. The FP4-based product has very strong momentum. We'll now have ayear of full availability in terms of the product. The supply chain issues that plagued us during
2018 are much behind us.
In terms of large enterprise, we are doing well with our IP Routing products, particularly with the
private LTE-type deals, but also rather large technology enterprises. With webscale, we have
been a successful with Apple and Xiaomi. With the others, it's still work in progress. We have
been super successful in optics with the webscale players as a foothold, but FP4 more work to
do. Also let's keep in mind that that's sort of moving the architecture somewhat closer to
switching.
And then, of course, you didn't ask the question, but I will say from a 5G point of view, we see
potential tailwind there as well. Very pleased with the product innovation, the roadmap and the
gap that we have in terms of being advanced compared to some of our competitors there.
A - `Matt Shimao, Vice President & Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Tim. And Kerry, we are ready to take our final question for today.
Operator
All right. The final question will come from Pierre Ferragu of New Street Research. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Pierre C. Ferragu, Global Team Head, Technology Infrastructure, New Street Research LLP `
Hey. Thank you for my questions. I'd like to get back on China and I completely understand you
cannot comment on the political situation. I would be more interested in understanding what's
happening underground right now. When I see like revenue slides from your main competitor
were up significant in the region, I think 30% year-on-year and your revenues are down 8%. And
so, I'd like to understand what type of measure – is there like a shift in quick premiums, is your
competitor like (56:12) footprint. How can I understand that difference?
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Pierre. We struggled to hear you a little bit, but I think the question was about progress in
China underground. Correct?
Q - `Pierre C. Ferragu, Global Team Head, Technology Infrastructure, New Street Research LLP `
Yeah.
A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
China has been slow this year somewhat. We have been successful with webscales, et cetera,
but in terms of the operators, given that they did a massive rollout in 4G, it's been a bit slower till
5G comes on stream. 5G will be coming on stream. I think the spectrums are being allotted. The
decisions will start to happen at some point in Q2 and then Q3 onward is the rollout for all the
three operators. And then, we'll have to see prudently how much of share we want to take given
the profitability challenges in that market.
A - `Matt Shimao, Vice President & Head-Investor Relations `
Great. Thank you for your questions today. I'd now like to turn the call back to Rajeev.A - `Rajeev Suri, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Matt. Thank you, Kristian, and thank you all for your questions. I would like to close with
two brief thoughts. First, while our 2018 had its share of challenges, I think where we landed for
the full year underscores the Nokia capacity for pulling through and meeting our commitments to
our shareholder and customers.
Second, we are focused on the right areas, tapping the full opportunity of 5G and investing
where needed ensure competitiveness, expanding in Software and the Enterprise, driving out
costs and maximizing productivity and efficiency, leveraging the power of our portfolio and
optimizing our organization to strengthen customer focus.
All of these actions and many more are helping us to re-energize our operational foundation and
put us in a strong position to support our customers and tap the many market opportunities that
lie in front of us.
With that, thank you ever so much for your time and attention and I will now hand it back over to
Matt.
A - `Matt Shimao, Vice President & Head-Investor Relations `
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes our conference call. I would like to remind you that during
the conference call today, we have made a number of forward-looking statements that involve
risks and uncertainties. Actual results may, therefore, differ materially from the results currently
expected.
Factors that could cause such differences can be both external, such as general, economic and
industry conditions, as well as internal operating factors. We have identified these in more detail
on pages 71 through 89 of our 2017 Annual Report on Form 20-F, our financial report for Q4 and
full-year 2018 issued today as well as our other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. Thank you.
Operator
The conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now
disconnect your lines. Have a great day.