Y 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Hello and welcome to the Nokia Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2020 Earnings Teleconference and
Video Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. (Operator Instructions) After today's
presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. (Operator Instructions) Please note
that this this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.`Matt Shimao, Head of Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations. Sir,
you may begin.
`Matt Shimao, Head of Investor Relations `
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to Nokia's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2020 Conference Call.
I'm `Matt Shimao, Head of Investor Relations, Head of Nokia Investor Relations. `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer, President and CEO of Nokia;
and `Marco Wiren, Chief Financial Officer, CFO of Nokia are here with me via teleconference and video today. During this
call, we'll be making forward-looking statements regarding our future business and financial
performance. These statements are predictions that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results
made, therefore, differ materially from the results we currently expect. Factors that could cause
such differences can be both external as well as internal operating factors. We have identified
such risks in more detail in the section titled operating and financial review and prospects-risk
factors of our 2019 annual report on Form 20-F, our financial report for Q1 published on April 30th
on Form 6-K, as well as our other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Please note that our results release, the complete report with tables and the presentation on our
website include non-IFRS and comparable results information in addition to the reported results
information. Our complete financial report with tables available on our website includes a detailed
explanation of the content of the non-IFRS information and a reconciliation between the non-IFRS
and the reported information. Today's stock exchange release and presentation can be found on
the investor relations section of the Nokia website.`Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Matt, and dear investors, welcome to join us today. I'm happy to report that
we had a solid Q4 to end 2020, and actually as you will have seen we came in at the high end of
our previously-communicated outlook range. The Nokia level non-IFRS result both gross margin
and operating margin were healthy, and they were up. Non-IFRS operating margin was 16.6%, and
that was up 20 basis points. And then, of course, for the full year the increase was bigger, we
came in at 9.7% and previous year was 8.6%.
And as you have seen, gross margin development pretty good non-IFRS gross margin, 41.8% for
the quarter and 40% the year before. This was driven by, first of all, regional mix shift towards
higher margin North American market. It was also driven by our R&D efforts to enhance product
quality and cost competitiveness and this is, of course, pretty encouraging, all of it. Most of this
was in the Networks business and then, of course, this was the last year now when we report in
this structure where Networks is one business this year we will zoom a little bit deeper into the
different components of the Networks business.
What we would like to highlight is that Q4 operating profit benefited about EUR250 million from 2
drivers, EUR150 million early payment and then EUR100 million from Nokia venture fund valuation
that Marco will talk about a bit more in detail. And if you turn or kind of calculate that how much
the EPS effect out of these two items would have been, it would have been EUR0.035. We also
reiterated our earlier view on 2021 operating margin outlook, so we keep the 7% to 10% margin
forecast for this year. And then one important thing to note, which Marco will talk more about is
that we have 1 pretty large item derecognition of tax asset in Q4, which Marco will talk about as I
said.
Then if I -- I mean that was a very quick high-level summary of the result itself. And now I would
like to move over to a little bit more details and I start with the regional picture and the regional
situation. And then, of course, when you look at this picture, here you see that clearly the
performer of the quarter was the North American market. For the group, our full-year sales were
down 5% for the quarter. This was mostly because of currencies. In constant currencies the
quarter was 1% up. But then, of course, for full-year 2020, we cannot be happy with the fact that
we were down 6% on reported and 4% constant currency.
But, once again, in Q4, the performer was clearly North American region where we had 11%
reported and 19% USD i.e. constant-currency based growth. This partially reflects the recognized
net sales, also the item that I highlighted EUR150 million earlier this year - earlier. But in general,
of course, this is pretty strong performance. Our second largest market, Europe, remained flat
and in constant currencies, it was up 2%. One thing that is important to note and which is
personally driving the European market is the swap opportunities due to geopolitical issues and
majority of these opportunities are in Europe. There are some deals in other parts of the world as
well, but we believe that we have won to-date around half of the value of such deals and this, of
course, supports our business, including -- specifically including in Europe.
What is important then, of course, from margin point-of-view is that when you have a swap deal
like some of the ones that we have recently won, typically, in the beginning -- in the early stages
of that deal first year, sometimes too, the margins are lower and then they pick up when you go
further. The other regions are, of course, smaller for us. There we have -- had some headwinds.
In China, we have clearly lost market share, there's no question about that. In the other parts, it's
not that much a market share question, there are some tough comparables, as you can see, in
Asia Pacific in Q4 last year, because of the Rakuten deal in Japan and also in Middle East and
Africa because of strong deliveries to Saudi Arabia a year ago. So fairly stable in these parts ofthe world, but of course, in Latin America the important thing to keep track on this, of course, the
overall economy and the COVID situation, which has clearly delayed some of the investments
that would otherwise have taken place in that market.
So overall, solid performance by most of our regions. And then I move on to the structure of the
customers that we have and, of course, CSPs are clearly our largest customer group, over 80%.
But the growth is increasingly on the enterprise side. We can roughly -- now I simplify quite a lot,
but, in general, we can expect that the CSP market will remain flattish. Of course, there are
structural changes like from 4G to 5G and so on, but the overall market is flattish. But the
enterprise market this is expected to grow close to double digit over several years to come. So
this is clearly one place where we want to find growth and we are finding it.
We had full-year sales growth 14% on constant currencies and we have a healthy pipeline of new
opportunities. We won 79 new customers in Q4, it was 83 in Q3. We have currently 260 private
wireless customers. Of course, the enterprise business is not only private wireless. We are selling
a lot of routing and fixed access products to these customers as well. But this is a promising case
and a couple of highlights perhaps worth mentioning. Wireless -- private wireless partnerships
with both AT&T and Verizon that we published during the quarter. So overall, solid job and great
promise in this segment, which will be further driven by then the next steps in a way the mission-
critical networks serious industrial digitalization that is gradually taking speed. So we really believe
that we will be in the heart of the fourth industrial revolution through our enterprise position,
which is already now a solid 1 with good potential for the future.
Cash flow is, of course, an extremely important measure and Marco will talk a bit more about
that. I just highlight that we had EUR2.5 billion net cash at the end of the year. Here also, just
because we just want to be as transparent as possible, we do want to highlight that in the very
last days of the year, we had the EUR500 million payment from a customer, sometimes 1 day or 2
can make a difference. Had it been on the January side, the end result today would have been
the same, but then this figure would have been EUR2 billion instead of EUR2.5 billion.
You will also have seen the Board's proposal that there would be no dividend for the financial
year 2020 and this is also something that Marco will address in a bit more detail in a moment.
Then I move to the next angle to the performance and that is then the business-specific
performance, and I start from the largest business, which is Networks. And again -- then again,
reminding ourselves the fact that this is the last quarter when we report using this type of a unit
called Networks. But overall, we had 7% reported and 2% constant-currency Q4 sales decline and
that constant-currency decline was 5% for the full year. This decline was in Q4 mainly driven by
mobile access and optical networks, in mobile access not by the product, but more by
deployment services. This is important to note the product part actually did pretty well.
In Q4, IP routing and fixed access net sales grew on constant-currency basis and declined on a
reported basis. And we had 280 basis points gross margin improvement in the Network business,
primarily due to the progress in mobile access, and here I would like to highlight the promising
progress that we have made in 5G product cost reductions. I'll come back to that in a second,
which is, of course, something that will carry us also in the future because the product
development in 5G has been actually delivering in a pretty promising manner.
Operating profit decreased somewhat due to some of the loss allowances and project cost
allowances that we have put on the balance sheet at the end of the quarter. And once again, this
business benefited positively about EUR150 million at the end of the quarter from this timing of a
transaction with one particular customer. One thing to note for the network business goingforward is the global component market situation where there's been a lot of talk about
shortages, some of that highlighted by the car makers.
We believe that our situation is manageable, but it requires a lot of attention. There are here and
there some point-to-point delivery risks in Q1, nothing that would change the big picture, but this
is something that our businesses are paying a lot of attention to we are intensifying our contacts
and the discussions with the key vendors, discussing forecasts, reservations, inventories and
everything. This is something that will most likely be there. This is not a Nokia-specific issue in any
way, but a world issue for the next year or two. Difficult to say exactly where it will all lead to, but
requires a lot of attention.
Then inside the Networks business, a couple of comments on mobile access. First, I already
mentioned that we had clear improvements on the product side, but also in the Q4 and full-year
result due to stronger competitiveness and cost position of mobile radio. As I said, the top-line
challenge in this business did not come from the product side, it's from the deployment services
side. We had growth in radio access products in Q4 and also full year, and the 5G growth was
partially offset by decreases in legacy radio access products. 5G gross margin was up due to
product cost reduction, partly helped by higher ReefShark volumes and this is really important
and also encouraging that we actually increased our own target or exceeded our own target on
ReefShark. 43% was the share of deliveries in Q4 when our earlier communicated target was
35% and we are reiterating the target of 70% at the end of this year, and then 100% at the end
of next year.
So this gives us confidence that the turnaround, which started already a year, 1.5 years ago is on
the right track. But however, there is still, obviously, work -- a lot of work to do. And as I've said
earlier, one of the important things which then also will be reflected in this year's mobile networks
result is that we will continue to invest, we will actually increase our R&D investment to make sure
that we repeat the success of 4G also in 5G. Our 5G conversion rate, excluding China, is currently
at 90%, and that's negatively impacted by our market share development in North America. This
is a bit controversial because 2020 and the end of 2020, as you saw, we had strong growth in
North America, but now going into this year, exactly as we have highlighted earlier, we are facing
some headwinds in mobile networks in terms of top line because of North America and also
China. And then there is a price erosion challenge also that we are facing and the combined
effect of all of this will lead to this year to this earlier communicated zero expected comparable
operating profit for the new mobile networks business.
But market share wise, again, on balance, 4G, 5G market share in 2020, excluding China, we
estimate that 27% to 28%. And now for this year, we are targeting 25% to 27% market share. So
it's not that dramatic, but still there is a short -- a small drop. We have currently 195 commercial
5G engagements, including paid trials, and 45 5G -- live 5G networks. You will have noted some
of the recent highlights, the 5G deal with T-Mobile, U.S. Federal 5G Cybersecurity project, cloud-
native core software deal with 1 in Singapore and many, many more. I don't have time to have
time to go through all of them at the moment.
We noted in the outlook assumptions, as a continuation of what we have said earlier about the
profitability of this business this year that there will be a significant decline in top line of this
business this year, and that is one key reason why the profitability is so challenging. It's important
to highlight this because the reason for that expected zero comparable operating margin in
mobile networks this year is not our technology competitiveness, which is improving quickly. It is
some customers earlier made decisions about market shares, which will affect our top line in
2021.Then to the next business in Networks, which is fixed access. I'm quite encouraged by the
situation in this business. We had 5% decrease in reported net sales, but 1% growth in constant
currencies decreases because of copper access and services, but then there is pretty strong
growth in digital home and fiber access. And the interesting detail about this business, which is
very important is that we had record high order book for this business at the end of the year. And
when it comes to technology, we launched our 25G PON, passive optical network technology,
which has received an excellent reception on the market and there's a lot of customers who
consider deployments of 25G solutions. And just as one highlight, one large customer, AT&T,
recently joined the 25G PON MSA, an industry organization to promote and accelerate 25G PON.
This is a technology where we currently roughly-speaking believe that we have 18 months
advantage to the closest competitor.
IP routing is, of course, a great business. We had actually top-line wise the best quarter since the
Alcatel-Lucent acquisition. We had on constant currency basis an increase in top Line of 5%, and
that makes this quarter higher than the year before, if you take it on constant currency basis. We
had a lot of key wins and, of course, the FP4 routing silicon platform is the key technology driver
in this, and we have had a lot of wins recently, Deutsche Telekom, TELUS in Canada, (inaudible) in
Indonesia and then a California-based data networking or data center and Internet service
company Equinix, global companies. Some of the examples of these wins. In short, we are well
placed for the next steps in IP routing business going into 2021, and obviously, you have not seen
everything on the product side yet.
Optical networks had a challenging year from -- and the quarter from top-line perspective. Q4
last year was a really tough comparison as you can see here, but we were down 10% even in
constant currency. Also here, even though this business has had its share of challenges, there is
now promising developments on the technology side, we have launched our WaveFabric
Elements portfolio with the PSE-V and then the Elenion acquisition all supporting the development
into 2021 and beyond. So we do expect improvement in this business this year and then going
forward as well.
Then the next business is software business. Great 5% constant-currency sales growth in the
quarter, reported basis, unfortunately because of currency decrease by 1%, great and solid 2021
order book and several cloud-core wins, including SoftBank, and one thing I would like to highlight
is in January, which, of course, is after the reporting quarter ended, we announced a software
partnership with Google to jointly develop cloud-native 5G core solutions for CSPs and
enterprises. So the comprehensiveness of our cloud-native, multi-vendor, multi-network portfolio
continues to give us a strong position in the telco software market.
And finally then, Nokia Technologies, 2% increase in net sales and 3% in constant currencies. This
growth was primarily due to patent licensing and higher catch-up net sales from a renewed
patent licensing agreement that we delivered in Q4. Of course, full-year sales decreased a little
bit, largely due to a reduction in brand licensing revenue and certain one-off brand licensing
revenue mostly because of the declined handset market because of COVID-19.
We have increased our R&D expenses a little bit to continue to develop our intellectual property
portfolio and to maintain it, and this is also something that we are focusing on in the future, not
only monetizing the portfolio that we currently have, but really taking advantage of our research
organization. The fact that we have already now 1,350 declared 5G essential patents, and then,
ongoing expansion to new areas such as consumer products, IoT solutions going forward,
automotive segment, et cetera. So this is pretty solid performance in this business as well.And then before I hand it over to Marco, a couple of comments on the leadership team and the
operational model. The old leadership team was 17 members. Now the new one will be 11, and it's
almost complete. Now there is only 1 appointment still to be made, which is in the pipeline, which
is our Chief Corporate Affairs Officer, but everything else is now in place. This organization has
been effective now for 1 month, so it's, of course, very early stage. Fundamental principle here is,
of course, full P&L accountability to the businesses -- for businesses led by a business group
president. This does, of course, not mean that these businesses would operate in silos in the
customer interface, and that's why we have a customer experience organization led by Ricky
Corker, who is responsible for the account teams that are facing the customer. But this should not
be mixed with the P&L responsibility, which is very clear. It is in the BGs, led by the BG President.
Another very important detail that I want to highlight here is the appointment of Nishant Batra as
our Chief Strategy and Technology officer. His task is really to drive our technology strategy
across businesses, challenge businesses in terms of technology, but also then take care of our
network architecture and our product architecture across businesses, and very importantly, to
drive our long-term research, including Bell Labs. This whole thing that we have done to the
organization at the operational model is major simplification from the previous one. As I have said
before, just one example, in the previous model a fairly simple mobile access deal required 5
management team members to participate. Now it is only 1 and that simplifies things greatly.
Then I actually believe that this is enough for my part. Marco will now go through the financials in
more detail, and then after that, we are ready for your questions. So now I'm happy to hand over
to you, Marco.
`Marco Wiren, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you so much and hello for my side as well. There's basically 4 areas that I would like to
cover with you today. And I will start with Group Common and Others and then go over to the
cash position and liquidity position at the end of the year. And then explain a little bit more about
the derecognition of the Finnish DTA, deferred tax asset that impacted our reported results. And
then finally, I will close with some comments about our '21 guidance.
So if we start with Group Common and just starting here that we had a very strong year-on-year
net sales growth. And this was actually second quarter in a row. And the main the main driver here
was the ASN, Alcatel Submarine Networks. And if you remember, already in Q3, they started a
very (inaudible) path and this continued in Q4 as well. And just to point out here that due to
COVID, we had to close our factories in Alcatel Submarine Networks and that affected heavily
their business and volumes as well. And now when the factories have been reopened, they have
been able to deliver occurring as well.
Another thing that I would like to highlight on the ASN side is as well that they have -- first of all,
they are market leader today in their business and their order book is extremely good, EUR1.75
billion at the end of 2020. And of course, we believe that we can continue a good development
when it comes to top line during '21 as well. Then another item that I would like to highlight in the
Group Common and that's the EUR100 million impact that we got just in the end of the year. As
we have the venture fund in Nokia and that fund is investing in different funds, and in those funds,
there were three IPOs, and those shares hiked quite remarkably in latter part of the year. And
that's why we got this EUR100 million extra boost in our operating profit as well.
And if I go into the net cash part and just want to give you a little bit more flavor on the cash flow
development. Just like Pekka already mentioned, we had EUR500 million early payment that was
due in actually in Q1, 2021, but that came in actually last day of the year in our bank account, andnet working capital. Although net working capital increased a little bit, EUR50 million in Q4, and if
you look at the big items here, we had receivables increase EUR1.1 billion. And of course, this is
quite typical in our business because we have seasonality where a lot of our sales are quite back-
end heavy towards the end of the year. And then of course, I want to mention as well that we've
been reducing our total amount of sale of receivables.
And this was offset by that we had about a EUR500 million decrease in inventories and this is also
a seasonal impact because a lot of shipments go out in latter part of the year. But also we had
some component lead time issues and that affected inventories a little bit as well. And then we
had about EUR600 million increase in liabilities. And that ended that free cash flow in quarter 4
was almost EUR800 million, and for the full year, it was EUR1.35 billion. And of course, this was
affected by the EUR500 million early payment that we got and that's why we exceeded also the
guidance that we had given to you earlier. And if we look a little bit more about liquidity position
and also our debt portfolio.
First of all, if you look net cash EUR2.5 billion at the end of the year, and that's quarter-on-quarter
increase about EUR600 million. And the total cash is EUR8.1 billion, and that's about EUR400
million increase quarter-on-quarter. And in addition to the cash position, I will say that we have
about EUR1.5 billion undrawn RFCs, which are sustainably linked as well. And in addition to that if
we look at the right-hand side of the slide, you can see that we have quite well balanced debt
portfolio. And this year we have a maturity of EUR350 million, and that actually is something we
already are working on and we will redeem that one month before the due date. The due date is
in March, but we will do this already in February. Otherwise next year we have this EUR400 million
bond maturity, but all of all if you look at the maturity profile, the average tenure is about 5.5
years, and average interest is approximately 2%.
So I would say it's quite undemanding and well balanced. And also if you look the spread
between different sources, you see that we have both Euro and U.S. bonds, we had Nordic and
European Investment Bank loans as well. So if we go to the DTA, deferred tax asset issue and this
is in the Finnish legal entities and this is only accounting technicality. So it doesn't impact cash, but
of course, we have to book that in our reported numbers. I would like to highlight also that the tax
asset itself is not lost, so we can still utilize that in the future, but it's just that according to rules,
accounting rules, when we have a cumulative loss position X amount of months, then we have to
book this tax asset away from our balance sheet. And this is the reason why we've done this now.
It doesn't reflect the future of the results, it's backward-looking, so I just want to highlight that as
well. In light of this, we also have given a little bit more highlight on the tax expenses. So in 2021,
we expect about EUR450 million tax expenses, and we believe that in longer term this will be
about the same level as well. Remember that on quarterly basis, this will vary because of the
different mix on the profits from different countries and different countries have different tax
rates, and also the timing of the patent licensing cash flow and related withholding tax. So these
are the reasons.
And if we look also the full-year '21 outlook, first starting with the net sales and operating profit.
Net sales guidance that we have given now is a little bit different than what we have given before.
Now we have assumed that year-end and Euro/USD rate, which was $1.23. And if you look the
average rate that we had in 2020, it was $1.14. And just you to understand that if we would have
$1.14 in our books and if the year-end rate $1.23 would have been valid throughout the whole year,
that would have had almost EUR800 million negative impact on our top line. So you understand
the magnitude of the currency in U.S. dollars.Otherwise, I would say that we have quite balanced cost and sales in different currencies. Now
we have about 55% of our sales is in USD currencies and about 50% is in the cost side. In Euros,
it's 20% on the sales side and 25% on the cost side, and then other currencies are balanced as
well. So it's quite well balanced when it comes to the FX. When it comes to net sales again, we
will have significant decline in mobile networks, just like Pekka mentioned already, and this is the
fact that not all 4G contracts will be converted into 5G. And also we see some price pressure in
North America.
Then we see growth in Network Infrastructure and Nokia Technologies, which is offsetting this
decline in mobile networks. And if we look at the FX again, just some kind of rule of thumb, you
can see that if we have a 10% increase in Euro/USD that would give about 4% to 5% negative
impact on the top line and quite neutral impact on the operating profit side. And when it comes
to the operating profit guidance, we keep our previous guidance between 7% to 10%. And of
course, key drivers here, again, are the challenging environment in North America, specifically on
mobile network side, and then we will increase the R&D investments in the 5G. And then of
course, there's some uncertainties due to COVID as well.
And if we look the outlook for cash and dividend, we guide on free cash flow basis a positive cash
flow, and we will give more information about this at the Capital Markets Day as well. CapEx is
estimated to be a little bit higher, about EUR700 million, and there's basically 2 drivers here. One
is that we will have a little bit more CapEx on the real estate side and then we will invest a little bit
more on the Alcatel Submarine Networks side to be able to deliver that big order book that we
have in our end of last year. So we have to increase the capacity a little bit.
And just like Pekka mentioned already, also the Board is proposing no dividend based on 2020
profits. And just giving you some flavor, Board is very pleased to see the operational
performance that we have and also the cash performance, and we have strengthened our cash
position. But of course, because we want to secure that we can increase our investments in 5G,
but also other strategic areas. And secure that we continue with a very good track record on
sustainable cash generation, Board decided not to give any dividend.
And of course, after this year, again, Board will make a new assessment as normal practice is.
And I also want to assure you that we are assisting our current dividend policy and we indicated
earlier as well that at the Capital Markets Day, we will give you more information about the
dividend policy. And just want to give you a reminder that we have a Capital Markets Day on
March 18, and you are all welcomed. I definitely hope that you can call in as well, and we will focus
on much more on the different businesses, give more light into the disciplined portfolio
management of those businesses and the clear path for value creation for business as well.
And also we want to give you more information about the turnaround in mobile networks and
which steps we are taking going forward and maintaining the strength in network infrastructure
and clear path to maintain the technological leadership in in IP routing and related market share
gains as well. And also when it comes to Cloud and Network Services, both when it comes to CSP
and enterprise markets, we'll give you a value creation path for that business as well. And of
course, we will give you some more light on the sustainable technology licensing, and I really
hope that you will get the information you expect and have opportunity to call in.
With that, I would like to now hand over the Matt for Q&As.
`Matt Shimao, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Marco. For the Q&A session, please limit yourself to one question only as a courtesyQuestions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. And we will now begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) And
our first question today will come from `Andrew Gardiner, Barclays Capital with Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `Andrew Gardiner, Barclays Capital `
Thanks very much. Good afternoon. I was hoping to go into a little bit more detail on some of the
comments you made on the mobile market share and the -- and the for the revenue you expect
within the mobile access business. So Pekka, you said that you expect to drop from about 27% to
28% 4G, 5G market share ex-China last year to 25% to 27% this year. And I suppose if I sort of
then think about what is expected for the mobile access market, yes, going to grow this year
quite clearly given 5G led by China. But I think even without that with North America and Europe, it
should be growing by low single digits. And so I consider your slight market growth offset by your
market share pressure in the middle of the range, I get to something around a low single-digit
decline. Maybe it's mid-single-digit when we consider the FX headwinds you guys faced. It sounds
however, when you talk about significant decline that it's -- it's more than that. Just can you give
us a bit more detail there. Do you think you're facing more price pressure than others, given
some of the technology issues you faced in the past? Just a bit more detail in terms of what
specifically you're expecting in mobile networks revenue would be helpful?
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Thank you. I mean that's of course, one of the most essential questions that -- and issues
that we are facing -- facing this year. If I comment market shares, first, expectation is clearly that in
China and in North America this year, we will have lower market shares. And of course that 25% to
27% that you referred to, that's excluding China. But then overall, when we take top-line, of
course China is in that game as well. We do not believe that we would be facing a situation where
we would have to sell our product cheaper than competitors. There is price erosion in the market.
We certainly do not want to be the one who would be driving prices down, but it is reality that the
prices are eroding and the price erosion is stronger in the North American market than it is in
other parts of the world. So from that point of view, the top-line and then it comes to the
definition of this significant.
There are three components. There is the volume, which is driven by market share, then there is
price erosion, which together with volume drives top-line. And then on top of that, there is the
currency headwind, which is actually going to be quite significant this year. So these three
components together and up to significant. Then of course, what you should note and hopefully,
this is then the positive side of the story is that when you take our guidance for top-line -- group
top-line this year and we are not guiding any midpoint or anything like that. But just for the sake of
argument, if you mathematically take the midpoint and then eliminates the effect of currency
headwind. That would lead to roughly flat top-line for the group this year, which would mean that
then excluding currency effects, the other businesses would actually compensate for the drop in
mobile networks top-line.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you for your question, Andrew. Cole, next question, please.Operator
And the next question will come from `Sami Sarkamies, Nordea with Nordea Markets. Please go ahead.
Q - `Sami Sarkamies, Nordea `
Thanks. I want to understand a bit better what happened in Q4 with regards to your product mix
at mobile access. At the third quarter, you were prepared for a lower share of ReefShark-based
sales in Q4, but this was not the case as you benefited from earlier than anticipated product
releases. Are you running ahead of your targets, thinking of system organization and was the
EUR150 million tailwind from early revenue recognition driven by this matter?
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Not. Thank you, Sami. The EUR150 million thing is unrelated to this one. That was a customer
specific issue. I would not draw the conclusion that the 43% share would be an indication of the
overall program being ahead of targets. We maintain this 70% target by the end of this year and
100% target by the end of next year. These percentages jump up and down always dependent
on the mixture of customer deliveries in that specific quarter. Actually, the way it's measured is
deliveries from the factory to customer, but then there is a further delay often six months
between that event and then until the revenue is recognized. After it's typically installed and take
commission and taken into use, that's when the revenue is recognized. So I know that there is a
temptation to draw that conclusion, but that would be pushing it a little bit.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, Sami. Cole, next question, please.
Operator
And your next question will come from Alex Duval with Goldman Sachs. Please Go ahead.
Q - `Alexander Duval, Goldman Sachs `
Hello everyone. Thanks for the question. You obviously had solid cash generation in the quarter
relative to your prior guidance, even with that EUR500 million early payment of cash. I just
wondered if you could expand a bit more as to why you got that early payment? And then also,
it'd be interesting to know in terms of the underlying improvement, which was better than
expected. What were the main operational drivers? And how sustainable is that as we look
forward to coming year?
A - `Marco Wiren, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Thank you, very good point. And I would say that reason for this early payment from the
customer side, which was due in Q1 2021 is only the customer that can actually answer that
question. We didn't expect that, it came. And it could be just banking days arrow here as well. For
the other point, I would say that, if you look how we have been able to reduce the net working
capital, which is the main driver on how we can improve our efficiency in collecting cash. 2/3 of the
improvements that we've seen now in the latter part of the year is actually totally coming from
higher efficiency on net working capital and only 1/3 is coming from volume based. So I would say
that, that we have been able to increase the efficiency in net working capital. And we measure
this in rotation days and we've seen that they have been improving.Thank you, Alex for question. Cole, we'll take the next question, please.
Operator
And your next question will come from `Alexander Peterc, Societe Generale CIB with Societe Generale CIB. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Alexander Peterc, Societe Generale CIB `
Yes. Hi. Good afternoon. And thank you for the question. I just had a question really on back to
market share on the timing of the market share shifts that you see. So if you help me understand,
I was thinking maybe China share loss was 2020 affair and then we don't have a further impacts
from China in '21 or I was mistaken. And then the same for North America? Is that only a '21
impact, we're going to be having this share loss hampering growth in North America for more
years than just the current year? And then obviously for Europe, you have some gains here. Have
those already transpired and what we saw in the final quarter? Or is there more to come in '21
and beyond? Thanks.
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, the overall market share, excluding China. Remember, this 25% to 27% this year and 27% to
28% last year was excluding China. So that effect is eliminated. Clearly, the negative driver this
year is North America and then Europe is actually supporting this mitigating some of that negative
effect. We have guided only this year's market share and it's actually very difficult to say anything
yet about '22 or '23, we may be able to shed some light on this question at the Capital Market
Day, but there is still so many deals to be negotiated and hopefully one during this year that will
then affect next year's and 2023's market share that it's simply too early to comment that.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, Alex. Cole, next question, please.
Operator
Our next question will come from `David Mulholland, UBS with UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `David Mulholland, UBS `
Hi. Thanks. Just following on from the last question. I know it's probably a bit early to try and touch
on this, but with what you're seeing in terms of your customer engagements and I knowing that
the Verizon and North America issues are largely behind us. Do you feel confident that you're
holding your share in the rest of your North America base? And if that's the case, we're not past
the issues in China and you're gaining share in Europe, do you think that we will at the very least
be troughing in terms of market share in 2021 given the engagement you see with your
customers with the product today? Or is it too early to have that confidence and you need to see
a bit more of customer interaction and success on winning this year?
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, we do need to see more customer interaction before we are able to say anything about '22
or '23 market share. Of course, some of the recent deal activity that we have had, especially the
ones that we have published is promising, but it's still too early to call. And then of course, when it
comes to individual customers, customer names, including in North America, we never commentindividual customers speculations in terms of what they might not decide in the future. So into
that, we cannot unfortunately go. So it's still too early to call '22 or '23 market share.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, David for your question. Cole, we'll take the next one.
Operator
And your next question will come from Robert Sanders with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
Q - `Rob Sanders, Deutsche Bank `
Yes, hi, good afternoon. I just had a question about Europe. If you look at the historical rand share
in Europe at 50% for the Chinese vendors in 4G, how much of that share would you say is already
up for grabs in 5G? And related to this, after you complete the swaps you're doing, do you think
actually Europe could end up becoming a more attractive market from a pricing point of view
over time?
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I do believe that Europe will be an attractive market, but it's not possible. I'm sorry to answer your
question through any numbers or anything like that. We are not able to simply estimate that we
are looking at our market share in Europe, which is trending up at the moment, but it is not up to
us to speculate on where that would be coming from. And then especially when it comes to the
comments about geopolitics. As I have said earlier, we are a business, we are not politicians. So
we are not participating in any political speculations. We are focusing on our business and what
we are seeing in our customers. And as I said, we have seen a positive market share trend in
Europe.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you Rob. Cole, next question, please.
Operator
And our next question will come from `Simon Leopold, Raymond James with Raymond James. Please go ahead.
Q - `Simon Leopold, Raymond James `
Thanks for taking the question. I wanted to see if maybe you could offer some thoughts on how
the C-band auction that's underway in the United States might affect Nokia? For example, there
are some that are arguing that the money spent on the auction will reduce what operators will
spend on the networks, while other arguments are saying, no, it demonstrates large intentions to
spend and it's a good thing. And on top of that, I'd like to get a better understanding of your
product competitive positioning with mid-band? Thank you.
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, I mean, those are exactly the two ways to look at that thing, but I mean, hey look, if
somebody spends a lot of money on something makes a big investment. Shouldn't that lead to a
very high interest to do everything possible to maximize the return on that investment? And how
do you maximize that return, you need to maximize the spectrum efficiency, you need to
maximize the investment into your service, which would indicate that it would more be the latterone of the two alternatives that we are -- that you are highlighting. Then when it comes to our
product competitiveness in C-band, now when we are making quick progress on ReefShark and
system on chip, we are seeing a pretty strong competitiveness when we complete the road map
during this year. So we are ready.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Okay. Thank you, Simon for your question. Unfortunately, it looks like we won't be able to get
through the entire queue. So Cole, we'll take our last question for today.
Operator
And that question will come from Peter Nielsen with ABG. Please go ahead.
Q - `Peter Kurt Nielsen, ABG `
Thank you very much. You've made some comments that you are -- have improved your
competitiveness on the product side. Could you elaborate a little bit on -- and where more --
where specifically you feel sort of that you have improved your 5G competitiveness? And also
has these encouraging comments and trends you're seeing make you believe that you can
perhaps catch up a bit sooner than you had anticipated and spoke to us about three months
ago? Thank you.
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, it's -- there is no big difference to what we said three months ago. We were pretty
confident on our ability to catch up back then and I would like to repeat that confidence today. We
are now already in the second month of 2021, and as I've said earlier, 2021 is the year during
which we believe that for all relevant and significant parts, we will complete the catch up. So we
are optimistic. And this is of course -- I mean, this is a matter of both silicon customer and in some
cases, merchant silicon, but then it's very much the software features and software functionality.
There are clearly areas where we don't need any catch-up anymore. We are one of the leaders
and one of the examples is clearly end-to-end network slicing, which cuts across the whole
network and also across 4G and 5G and makes it possible for operators to offer specific
enterprise -- enterprise specific slices when they are doing their industrial applications and there's
more to come. So we are approaching a situation where there is no need to talk about catch up
anymore, but there is a lot of work still to do this year, but once we get through this year, I believe
we will get there.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, Peter Kurt. And thank you to all of you for your questions today. Thank you also, Pekka
and Marco. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's call. I would like to remind you that
during the call today, we have made a number of forward-looking statements that involve risks
and uncertainties. Actual results may therefore differ materially from the results currently
expected. Factors that could cause such differences can be both external and internal factors. We
have identified these in more detail in the section titled, Operating and Financial Review and
Prospects, Risk Factors of our 2019 annual report on Form 20-F, our financial report for Q1
published on April 30th on Form 6-K as well as our other filings with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. Thank you.
OperatorThe conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now
disconnect your lines at this time.