Y 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
`David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to Nokia's Fourth Quarter 2023 Results Call. I'm
`David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations, Head of Nokia Investor Relations, and today with me is `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer, our
President and CEO, along with `Marco Wiren, Chief Financial Officer, our CFO.
Before we get started, a quick disclaimer. During this call, we will be making forward-looking
statements regarding our future business and financial performance and these statements are
predictions that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may therefore differ materially from
the results we currently expect. Factors that could cause such differences can be both external as
well as internal operating factors. We have identified such risks in the Risk Factors section of our
Annual Report on Form 20-F, which is available on our Investor Relations website.
Within today's presentation, references to growth rates will mostly be on a constant currency
growth rate basis. When we re-refer to margins, it will be based on our comparable reporting.
Please note that our Q4 report and the presentation that accompanies this call are published on
our website. The report includes both reported and comparable financial results and a
reconciliation between the two. With that complete, in terms of the agenda for today, Pekka will
give an overview on the quarter and then Marco will go into a bit more detail on some of the key
factors impacting our financial performance before Pekka gives a brief conclusion and we move
to Q&A.
With that, let me hand over to Pekka.
`Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, David, and thank you to everyone for joining us today. So let me start with an update
of some of the strategic and operational changes we announced with our Q3 results in October.
We are evolving our operational model to give our business groups increased autonomy and
have now embedded our sales teams into the business groups. This announcement has beenwell received by our customers. We have hit the ground running in 2024. The move to embed
sales teams into the business groups happened at the start of the year.
We have appointed customer account executives and the Country Manager role has also been
reinforced. The customer account executives are there to ensure that we still offer one point of
contact and person responsible for overall relationship management with customers without
detracting from the accountability of the business groups. Some corporate functions have also
moved to the business groups as we move to a leaner corporate center. During first half of 2024,
we will begin reporting business group regional sales and cash flow metrics to further enhance
transparency and we already commenced the process of resetting our cost base during 2023.
We expect this program will generate EUR400 million of gross savings during 2024.
If we then turn to Q4 and 2023 full year, we, of course, saw a meaningful shift in customer
behavior impacting our industry. This was driven by macroeconomic environment and high
interest rates along with customer inventory digestion especially in North America. This led to our
fourth quarter sales decline by 21% and full-year sales decline by 8% in constant currency.
Proactive action across our organization meant we were able to protect our profitability while
continuing to invest in R&D and we delivered a comparable operating margin of 14.8% in Q4 and
10.7% for the full year. This was a resilient performance considering the challenging environment
and lower contribution from our high-margin patent licensing business, as some renewals
remained outstanding.
We were pleased with our cash performance in the quarter where we generated EUR1.7 billion of
free cash flow and we ended the year with a net cash balance of EUR4.3 billion. Positively, we also
ended the year with improving order intake. Our fourth quarter book-to-bill was above 1
particularly supported by our Network Infrastructure business indicating at least some
improvement in the overall spending environment.
Moving on to Network Infrastructure, sales declined by 24% in constant currency versus the year
ago quarter, which had been particularly strong. For the full year, sales declined by 9% mainly
driven by IP and Fixed Networks. Optical Networks grew by 5% and ASM declined slightly. There
as a favorable development in gross margin, which impacted by improved by 60 basis points
versus the year ago quarter and by 130 basis points for the full year and this was driven by
positive product mix. Operating margin in the quarter decreased to 13.9% due to the impact of
lower sales.
For the year, our (Technical Difficulty), ended up at 13.1% which was comfortably within the range
we had shared at the beginning of the year and above the targets we had set for ourselves back
in 2021. As you remember we had Capital Market Day back then when we set the targets for
each of the business in 2023. Also, if I can give you a quick update on the profitability of each of
the units within NI for the full year 2023, IP Networks saw its profitability decline slightly due to the
weaker sales coverage, but remains mid to high-teens operating margin. Optical Networks
improved strongly benefiting from the sales growth to deliver a high single-digit operating
margin.
For Fixed Networks, despite the sales decline, product mix was beneficial and delivered high
teens operating margin and finally Submarine Networks remained low single-digit but did improve
slightly year-over-year. Mobile Networks Q4 saw the continued impact of normalization of India
rollout and the dual impact of inventory digestion and macroeconomic pressure on spending in
North America. We were, however, pleased to see a robust gross margin performance
supported by favorable regional and product mix in Q4. Similarly, operating margin for the quarterwas 11.5%, an improvement of 470 basis points versus the year-ago quarter, driven by gross
margin and lower variable pay accruals.
For the full year, in spite of top line challenges, operating margin was 7.4%, which was within our
stated planning assumption for the year and at the higher end of our targets we set back in 2021.
Finally, on Mobile Networks, AT&T's recent announcement to move to a largely single-sourced
radio network was of course a disappointing development. As we said at our investor event in
December and as confirmed by AT&T, this does not reflect the technological competitiveness
that we have achieved with our products. This has been evidenced by our significant increase in
RAN market share in recent years. I firmly believe Mobile Networks has the right strategy in place
to create value for our shareholders in the future with opportunities to gain share, diversify our
business and achieve a double-digit operating margin longer term.
CNS sales declined in Q4 by 5% driven by declines in all businesses with the exception of
business applications which grew. Gross margin improved and this flowed through to operating
margin, and the full year improved from 5.3% to 7.9%. The 7.9% operating margin we delivered is
at the higher end of what we targeted at the start of the year. It is slightly below the lower end of
what we had set as target back in 2021. This is due to the increased investments, we decided to
make in private wireless, which has been consistently delivering double-digit growth.
2023 did see us making progress in our portfolio rebalancing efforts with the divestment of
VitalQIP, the announced sale of our Device Management and Service Management Platform
businesses in December and the partnership we announced with Red Hat on cloud infrastructure.
We also led the industry trend towards programmable networks with the launch of our network as
code platform which now has nine commercial agreements.
Nokia Technologies net sales decreased 63% on both a reported and constant currency basis in
the fourth quarter as the year-ago quarter had a EUR305 million one-off non-cash benefit we
explained at the time. Excluding these, the year-on-year net sales performance primarily
reflected lower net sales from a license that expired at the end of the third quarter 2023. The
financial performance in '23 was, of course, not what we had hoped for, as some deals took
longer to renew than what we had -- than we had expected. There were still some very important
achievements.
We signed long-term renewals with both Apple and Samsung along with signing a new
agreement with Honor. Positively as we of course announced yesterday, we have now achieved a
renewal with OPPO and we are very close to concluding another agreement in China. With these
agreements, we are now in the final stages of our smartphone license renewal cycle with only the
recently expired major agreement outstanding. This provides long-term stability to our Nokia
Technologies business which can now increasingly focus on growing our licensing run-rate in the
new growth areas including automotive, consumer electronics, IoT and multimedia. I remain
confident that with growth in these areas, we can return to an annual net sales run rate of EUR1.4
billion to EUR1.5 billion in Nokia Technologies in the mid-term.
Enterprise net sales decreased 3% in constant currency in Q4 in comparison to a very strong
year-ago quarter. However, for the full year, we grew 16% which shows strong continued
momentum. Overall customer engagement also remains strong as we added 151 new enterprise
customers in the quarter. Private wireless continued to show strong growth in 2023 and now has
more than 710 customers. You can also see on the right hand side of this slide a breakdown of
the EUR2.3 billion of enterprise sales we had in 2023.We wanted to give a bit more color around the components of our enterprise business. Almost
half of our enterprise sales come from areas where we sell our NI products into targeted
enterprise verticals, particularly those that value mission critical networks. Private wireless is now
just over a quarter of our enterprise sales having grown strongly for several years and then
Webscale is an increasingly important opportunity for us as well.
Now, I will hand over to Marco to go through the financials in more detail.
`Marco Wiren, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Pekka. And good morning, good afternoon from my side as well. And let's start by
looking at the regional performance of the businesses and in quarter four, all regions declined
and we saw growth in Middle East and Africa. Most notably, North America declined once again
and reflected the inventory digestion and macro uncertainty, which has been dominating most of
the year. India declined by 30% and this was related to the 5G deployments that continues to
normalize and in Europe, we saw a meaningful decline in the quarter and some of which was
driven by Nokia Technologies, which is entirely reported in the Europe numbers. Otherwise, the
decline was mainly driven by Mobile Networks and Network Infrastructure.
And then looking at the operating profit in the quarter, Pekka explained a number of these drivers
already but a few things that I want to point out and first one is from common contribution, which
was better than a year ago quarter and this was driven by venture fund where the performance
improved. In Mobile Networks and Cloud and Network Services, they improved somewhat year-
on-year. And then, however, the majority of the decline was driven by Nokia Technologies where
the year-ago quarter benefited from the EUR305 million one-off that Pekka mentioned.
And then moving to our cash position in quarter four. We had a strong quarter and ended the
year with EUR4.3 billion of net cash, an increase of EUR1.3 billion compared to quarter three and
this is mainly reflected strong quarter four profit and a significant inflow of cash related to net
working capital and this was due to both lower inventories as well as receivables, which benefited
from a partial prepayment of a licensing agreement that was made in '23.
And during quarter four, we returned over EUR200 million to shareholders through dividends and
the completion of the second tranche of follow-up two-year EUR600 million share buyback
program. In the full-year '23, we returned over EUR900 million to shareholders through dividends
and share buybacks. Free cash flow, the full year was just over EUR800 million and this is 34%
conversion compared to operating profit and this was in line with our guidance of 20% to 50% for
the year.
When turning to our '22 -- '24 cash flow outlook, we try to provide a [ph]dossier on the moving
parts in the 30% to 60% free cash flow conversion from comparable operating profit that we
have guided for. We do expect to see a positive impact from our operational and networking
capital in '24 as we continue to see some reduction from the buildup we saw during the past two
years. And then we expect cash taxes to be about EUR500 million in '24 and assume also cash
flow related to restructuring about EUR550 million although I would like to note that we also
target to achieve the EUR500 million in Europe cost savings in '24 and these related both the
program we just launched but also the final savings of our prior '21 program.
And then finally Nokia Technologies, we expect cash generation to be approximately EUR700
million below operating profit and this is due to prepayments that we received in '23 but one
from '25 and onwards we expect greater alignment between Nokia Technologies cash
generation and operating profit. So taking base into consideration, we should land into the 30%Then as you look out to '26 you can see that we are well on track to reach our target of 55% to
85% conversion especially as Nokia Technologies cash generation starts to align more with its
operating profit. And then at the end of '23, our net cash represented about 19% of our net
sales, which is above the target of 10% to 15% that we laid out in the beginning of the year. And
given the strong cash position, the Board of Directors will propose an increased dividend to
EUR0.13 per share and the Board is also proposing to initiate a new buyback program of EUR600
million over two years.
And given the ongoing macroeconomic uncertainty and industry challenges, we feel it is prudent
to take a measured approach to getting to the 10% to 15% net cash target. And if we now look at
the '24, we can see in the presentation on the release the planning assumptions we have for our
business groups in 2024. And as you can see, these are well aligned with the commentary we
provided back in December. I will not go into detail on each number, but you will note that we
provide net sales assumption by business group instead of the targeted addressable market
assumptions we have provided in the past which we hope gives greater transparency as well.
And piecing all of these assumptions together, you can understand our full year outlook for '24.
We are now guiding for comparable operating profit between EUR2.3 billion and EUR2.9 billion
which takes into consideration all of the BG assumptions. We also expect the free cash flow
conversion between 30% and 60% for the reasons I've pulled through earlier and one further
planning assumption we have provided that I would like to highlight is around the seasonality we
expect in '24.
We expect Q1 net sales now Network businesses to show a long-slit normal seasonal decline
sequencing and since 2016, the average Q1 sequential decline in sales has been 23% and we
expect significant seasonality in profit generation in '24 with low sales coverage to weigh on
operating profit in quarter one, especially in MN and CNS. And then the company expect
progressive improvement in these businesses throughout the year.
I also want to draw your attention to some changes that we will be making to disclosures and
accounting for 2024. These changes are being made to enhance transparency and further
support understanding of financials of our business groups. First by quarter two at the latest, we
start disclosing regional sales and cash flow metrics by business group to provide a more
complete picture of the individual parts of the business. And the second is that we will change the
way of account for the impact of our venture funds. Historically, they have been recorded in other
operating income and expense and therefore, included in our operating profit. But going forward,
we will now report these in financial income and expenses and we believe that this makes sense
given the volatility of these valuations in recent years.
And with that, back to you, Pekka, for some final thoughts before Q&A.
`Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Marco, and just very quickly before we turn to Q&A let me conclude with a couple of --
couple of remarks. First of all, as already discussed, we faced a highly challenging environment in
'23 but considering the 8% decline in net sales, I believe we delivered a pretty resilient financial
performance. Our business group did a good job maintaining profitably and still delivering on
operating margin targets. As we said at the start of the year. We also delivered a solid cash
performance in line with the guidance we gave at the start of the year. This is enabling the Board
to propose an increase in our shareholder distributions for the coming year. Secondly, we are
moving quickly on our cost reduction program and more importantly, we continue to take steps to
increase the operational autonomy of our business groups. We want to make sure they are
empowered to take the right decisions to create shareholder value into the future.And finally, while the environment will remain challenging in the first half of 2024, the strong order
intake we saw in Q4 points to some improvement in the spending environment especially for
Network Infrastructure. Also, we are now in the final stages of our smartphone license renewal
cycle in Nokia Technologies. This will lead to greater stability in Nokia Technologies going forward
and will allow the business to focus more on its growth areas.
With that, I will hand it back to David for the Q&A.
`David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Pekka and Marco, for the presentations. The Q&A session, as a courtesy to others in
the queue, please could you limit yourself to one question and a brief follow-up.
Alice, with that, could you please give the instructions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
We will now begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) I will now hand the
call back to Mr. `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Alice. We'll take our first question from `Jakob Bluestone, Analyst, BNP Paribas from BNP Paribas Exane. Jakob,
please go ahead.
Q - `Jakob Bluestone, Analyst, BNP Paribas `
Thanks, David. Hi, good morning. I was hoping you could maybe expand a little bit on the green
shoots commentary, and specifically what do you think is driving the sort of improvement coming
through. And maybe if you could just comment a little bit whether you're seeing any green shoots
in Mobile Networks or if it's just on the Network Infrastructure side. Thank you.
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thank you. The comment on green shoots was clearly more on the NI side and of course, the
good thing now is that as you know, we have the four businesses in NI. We had strong order
intake in Q4 in all four business divisions of NI. In IP Networks, it's driven by tailwinds in Webscale
and enterprise contracts. In Fixed Networks, it's driven by government funding which starts to
benefit the market already now in order intake but because of the delivery cycle then in terms of
sales and top line, mostly in the second half of 2024.
In Optical Networks, it's simply share gains because of our strong product momentum and the
excellent feedback we are receiving from customers to our recent product announcements. And
in Submarine Networks, we already had a strong order book in the beginning of the quarter, but
we had great order intake in Q4 as well and that combination is now going to be driving the
outlook for that business going forward.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Do you have a follow-up, Jakob?
Q - `Jakob Bluestone, Analyst, BNP Paribas `Maybe just on the Mobile Networks. What are you sort of seeing there. It sounds like it's still
pretty tough.
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I mean, the market will remain tough at least for the first half of the year. When you look at
the Mobile Networks sales guidance for this year, there, of course, you need to remember that
the significant part of that is driven by India. Our group sales in India were -- in 2022, they were
EUR1.3 billion and last year, EUR2.8 billion. And now we are expecting that '24 on group level
would be somewhere between EUR1.5 billion to EUR2 billion and most of that decline that we will
see in India this year will be in Mobile Networks.
So that already, when you do the math, you can see that that explains a significant part of -- part
of the drop. But overall, I mean, we are still expecting... or waiting for mobile operators
throughout the world to start investing because investments have been very low. '23 was a tough
year for the whole market, of course, most pronounced in North America.
Fact still remains that only about 25% of base stations outside of China are 5G mid band and a
small majority of all core networks have been upgraded 5G advanced and those investments will
need to come because without that, operators will not be able to monetize 5G appropriately.
Right now, interest rates are still high. Many operators have high leverage. The good thing would
be that if interest rates would come down, data traffic will continue to grow 20% to 30% per year.
So gradually that will also start to force operators to again invest, but the reality is that nobody
knows when that will come. I'm absolutely convinced that it will come, but we are not yet seeing
concrete signs of it happening.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Jakob. We'll take our next question from `Simon Leopold, Analyst, Raymond James from Raymond James.
Simon, please go ahead.
Q - `Simon Leopold, Analyst, Raymond James `
Great. Thank you for taking the question. I wanted to see if you could help us in terms of how the
AT&T transition with the O-RAN project is affecting your revenue assumptions and what I'm sort
of trying to tease out here is there sort of a step-down rapid decline or is there maybe a long tail
of spending before slowdown. I just like a little bit of color about how we should think about that
revenue impact in 2024? Thank you.
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. So just as a reminder, we said that AT&T represented last year 5% to 8% of sales in mobile
networks, so that it's important to keep in mind that the '23 number was significantly in terms of
euros or dollars was significantly lower than in '21 or '22. So we had already seen a significant
decline in AT&T volumes because of their lower investments. Now, we have an existing contract
with a five-year contract with AT&T that was -- that was published in the beginning of '21.
Negotiations are still ongoing with respect to how we execute on this contract and before we
have concluded those negotiations, it is hard to give a clear answer as to how the trajectory of
the decline will look like. But clearly, we do expect our sales to AT&T to drop this year.
We have to remember though that when we first of all look at Mobile Networks irrespective of
this contract, we will continue to supply microwave radios and femto products to AT&T and then
outside of Mobile Networks, we obviously continue to remain a key supplier in both NetworkInfrastructure and CNS and those two businesses do not have anything to do with the -- with the
radio network decision that AT&T made.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Do you have a follow-up?
Q - `Simon Leopold, Analyst, Raymond James `
Yeah. And as a follow-up, the forecasting this quarter in terms of the planning, we don't have a
revenue outlook but there is the operating income outlook, and I mentioned that is what's really
important to folks, but I assume there is an underlying revenue assumption you would have given
it to us I imagine if you wanted to and you've chosen not to. So maybe help us understand sort of
the thinking and the puts and takes on what assumptions you've made for full-year '24 revenue
and the choice to guide the way you have. Thank you.
A - `Marco Wiren, Chief Financial Officer `
Absolutely. Thank you. As you see, we changed a little bit how we are guiding for this year and we
decided to give more flavor and information about our assumptions for business group and we
believe that this will be more helpful for you to get a better picture of each of the businesses,
which are then combining the whole company and for the group level we guide on the operating
profit and free cash flow and then you can see that we have -- on the business group's
assumptions, we have both net sales and also operating margin. And then what comes to
technologies, we have also given you what is the operating profit assumption for this year and
also the seasonality we have given you very hopefully good understanding how the year will play
out and seasonality will be, I would say more back to normal that we've seen in some years ago
as well and very heavy second half while quarter one is about 23% normally lower than than
quarter four year before.
So, I hope that these more detailed assumptions in the guidance will give you a better
understanding how the company is going, and also giving you a better understanding of the
different areas and businesses.
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Maybe as a quick follow-up just to put things in perspective in terms of seasonality, so when we
are saying that we are returning to a more normal seasonality how was this then abnormal in
2023, there were two main reasons for that. In Mobile Networks there were significant deliveries
in India in the first half of the year, which kind of distorted the seasonality and then the same thing
but for a different reason in NI as well. The beginning of the year was extremely strong because
there were catch-up deliveries that had to do with the supply chain shortage and the extremely
high orders that operators have placed as a result of increased demand as a result of COVID.
So that's why both NI and NM and had unusual seasonality in 2023 and both of those we expect
to return back to normal in '24.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Simon. We'll take our next question from `Francois Bouvignies, Analyst, UBS from UBS. Francois, please
go ahead.
Q - `Francois Bouvignies, Analyst, UBSHi, thank you very much. Just wanted to ask you on the hyperscale wins and momentum and
Pekka, you seem in your remarks and in the release quite excited about the wins in the Network
Infrastructure momentum and I wanted to ask you from the switching and routing, do you -- are
you taking some market share there? Can you elaborate a bit on the hyperscale wins momentum
if it's related to AI just to understand a bit better the momentum because when we look at Arista
and Cisco, it doesn't seem to have a lot of momentum. So it's very specific to you which would
suggest that you are gaining some market share but then you said a bit earlier that the market
share is more on the Optical side, and it seems to be more market driven on the other side to
routing and fixed. So just to elaborate would be great. That's my first question. Thank you.
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. That's a highly relevant question. The NI business with hyperscalers has been fairly
Optical driven exactly as I commented before. We have existing Optical business with them that
is looking pretty good. But the main growth potential for us there is really in datacenter switching
and I cannot disclose the name, but we had a significant order from one of the hyperscalers in
Q4. We hope to be able to disclose the name also in not too distant future, but we are not able
to do it yet. This will be driving growth for Webscale business in the IP Networks part of NI going
into 2024.
Of course, we have to remember that compared to our competitors, our switching business --
datacenter switching business is small so we are a challenger. But the good side of that is of
course is that now when we have an increasingly strong product portfolio for that based on our
in-house silicon, which is welcomed by hyperscalers combined with strong software offering that
offers a lot of flexibility for different datacenter architectures we believe that there is a possibility
to gradually break into this market and get meaningful growth in the segment because, of
course, we know, we all know that the CSP market as a whole will not be a growth market. Of
course, we target to gain share there but datacenters will be the most significant growth market
in the whole world in our industry, and that's why it is so important to increasing a focus on that
segment.
Q - `Francois Bouvignies, Analyst, UBS
Thank you. Yeah, just a quick clarification on what you said the deal you signed and you can't
disclose yet and I guess some market share. I mean, I guess you are kind of a market share. We
know -- I would imagine given your low footprint in originally in this (Multiple Speakers).
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, it is a market share win, yes.
Q - `Francois Bouvignies, Analyst, UBS
Okay. And just my final question is on Open RAN. AT&T kind of surprise the market with this deal,
and I was just wondering if you see some acceleration in terms of activity of Open RAN from
other operators following that deal. I mean, we are a few months now, a couple of months after
this announcement. From what I understand, the operators are also looking closely at it. So do
you expect other announcements from other operators this year of this kind or do you really think
it's like just a one-off for now?
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `Open RAN is gradually gaining speed. I don't expect and I have not seen that the AT&T decision
would have led to any kind of increase in Open RAN interest in other parts of the world. Dell'Oro
estimates that in 2028, O-RAN would represent roughly 25% -- or 24% of the total RAN market.
So that gives you a perspective.
What I really suggest is that people need to follow up very closely that's what the facts about
different rollouts are including in all announced projects, how quickly will it be and will it be true O-
RAN or will it be O-RAN where you just have the same supplier on both sides of the interface. We
have two real commercial O-RAN deployments ongoing at the moment. One is with NTT
DOCOMO in Japan and the other one is the recently announced Deutsche Telekom project in
Germany.
We have already connected our DU and CU to five suppliers radio units, which is more than any
other supplier. So gradually O-RAN front-haul -- open front-haul interface is becoming commercial
reality. It starts from simple radios and only gradually moves to massive MIMO but it will eventually
get there as well. So it will be part of the market -- a small part of the market for quite some time
but as I have said before, we see it as more as an opportunity than a threat for Nokia.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Francois. We'll take our next question from `Sami Sarkamies, Analyst, Danske Bank from Danske Bank. Sami,
please go ahead.
Q - `Sami Sarkamies, Analyst, Danske Bank `
Hi, thanks for taking my (Technical Difficulty) for Mobile Network of less than EUR9 billion this year
with little single-digit EBIT margin. Just curious how will you be able to regain scale and grow
revenues to EUR10 billion target that's what will be required for double-digit margins in the long
run. I mean, if we look at the latest forecast from the like of Dell'Oro, the five-year outlook for
end market looks quite flattish even if you assume some share gains from Chinese rivals. Do you
have anything else planned than the cost program that was announced after third-quarter
results?
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Of course, I mean, the cost program is an important element in this but we also have to
remember that perhaps with the exception of India, 2023 was a really weak year when it comes
to investments. And when you look at the big picture, only 25% of 5G base stations are mid-band.
So that is suggesting that they will have to be overtime in the second half of 2020s that will have
to be a significant investments in 5G radio networks in different parts of the world already before
6G starts to come in. Data traffic continues to grow 20% to 30% of the year and then in addition
to that, the Chinese will be increasingly under pressure because of political reasons and because
of the various actions that the western countries have taken to limit their access to latest silicon.
So it is very clear that to get to EUR10 billion top line, we have to continue to take market share.
AT&T is of course a setback. From there, we need to start climbing back up towards the market
share that will need to start by three if you want to get to EUR10 billion top line. It is a challenge,
absolutely, and that's why we have provided a fairly -- fairly low guidance for this year's
profitability, 1% to 4% that then we commented '26 target at the December -- December event.
We are not assuming that we would get to double-digit by 2026.
Then we also need to keep in mind that when we talk about the second half of the decade, by
then we will have significantly increased the non-CSP business part of Mobile Networks. Wealready now growing albeit from a low base fast in private wireless and then a very important
target for the second half of the decade is the defense industry where the spending is significant.
It is currently mostly proprietary military technologies when it comes to communications and the
challenge they are facing is that it is getting extremely difficult to be cost competitive there when
the technology is proprietary. So it's getting extremely expensive and that's why the whole
defense industry in several parts of the world is looking at commercial technologies at the
moment such as 5G to provide an alternative to proprietary military technologies.
We have said that the actions that M&A is taking will allow them to lower the level of net sales to
reach this 10% operating margin to approximately EUR10 billion, as you said. So that is a correct
figure that you mentioned. That is our target. How we are modeling the business. Currently
before the cost action started, the level to reach a 10% operating margin in terms of sales was
EUR11.5 billion. So now we are taking that to EUR10 billion.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Do you have a quick follow up, Sami?
Q - `Sami Sarkamies, Analyst, Danske Bank `
Maybe technicality regarding technologies. There was a slight drop in IPR run rate during Q4. Can
you elaborate on that and then just update on where we will be after the OPPO renewal. I think
previously you were talking about 1.1 billion starting this year, but now I guess it must be a bit more
than that.
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thank you, Sami. When it at comes to run rate in quarter four, we had one license that
expired at the end of quarter three. And that's why we see run rate change as well but if you look
'24, so we aren't guiding an increase in our run rate and we just kind of quantifying these yet
because we have still some deals that outstanding and because the content of the deals are
confidential we are not allowed to give you that much information about that, but I hope that
perhaps in quarter one we will give you more flavor on this as well.
And what comes to '24 operating profit, we said at least EUR1.4 billion for the full year and this is
including the catch-ups as well.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Sami. We'll take our next question from `Richard Kramer, Analyst, Arete Research from Arete. Please go ahead,
Richard.
Q - `Richard Kramer, Analyst, Arete Research `
Thanks very much, guys. Pekka, my question is, I'm just conscious that this year you've laid out
targets and talked about order strength at the beginning of the year and needed to reduce your
targets for margins and cash conversion. Now, you're looking at EUR1 billion of cash outflows for
restructuring and so my question is how you're going to mitigate the risk of losing sales or
momentum or other opportunities in the midst of this reset and are you confident that you can
undertake the restructuring without opportunities that you've laid out (Technical Difficulty).
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `Yeah, I mean, the biggest restructuring when it comes to customer interface that actually went
live already -- already on the 1st of January. So we did it very quickly. We made the decision late in
the year and we planned and executed everything very, very quickly. So now Q1 will be at the
quarter of stabilization in the customer interface and I have to say that when we have explained
the logic to the customers basically saying that we want for each business to place highly
empowered teams in front of the customer so as to short and simplify the organization structure
and shorten the distance between the customer and the real decision makers for each business
that has been very well received. And when you then complement that with the account
executive concept where one of the sales leads of the businesses take on as an additional
responsibility to run the overall relationship management with the customer and then to
coordinate gross BG matters. So that simplification has been well received. Of course, these type
of things always cause stability issues in the short term, but I believe that they will quickly be
behind us and people will start to see the benefits of this new model.
Then when it comes to the other cost savings in addition to the simplification of the customer
interface, there we have to look at each business separately, and of course, as we said, Mobile
Networks accounts for roughly 60% of the action we are taking and that's of course a reflection
of the overall industry outlook and the challenges that businesses facing, but this is already also
well underway in terms of implementation. There, the most important goal is really as we said in
December also is to protect our R&D output.
Q - `Richard Kramer, Analyst, Arete Research `
Okay, thanks. It's okay, please.
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, if I just then move on to the other businesses. So because this is very much MN-centric then
NI had different situation because there we have, as I said, great order intake in Q4 and we have
a 2% to 8% growth outlook for this year. So there, obviously the need to restructure the cost base
is not the same as it is in the MN business. And then in CNS, the action is mostly centered around
portfolio rebalancing.
You will have seen that we -- we made some divestments last year and we are getting close to
the type of portfolio that we look at -- are looking for. The rebalancing is not 100% done yet. We
are still working on certain things. That's really the name of the game in CNS and then tech we
already discussed because now with OPPO deal and hopefully the rest coming soon we will see a
significant stability in that business. So all four businesses are in fundamentally different place
when it comes to the restructuring need.
Q - `Richard Kramer, Analyst, Arete Research `
Okay, thanks. And then one quick one for Marco again just conscious that your predecessor had
relied in the past on sale of receivables. You did mention that in the statements. Could you give
us a sort of rough quantification of how much sales receivables helped this very good cash flow
performance in Q4. Thanks.
A - `Marco Wiren, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, thank you. We actually have changed from a degree of what comes to how we see sale of
receivables. The main thing what we do when we use sale of receivables is to mitigate risks. So it
become risk or customer risk and also the cost -- hedging cost for example in certain currencies.
So the principle is quite different. And now in quarter four, we mentioned that, but it wasn't ameaningful increase. So in some quarters, we see changes in sale of receivables and it could be,
just like I said, that it could be a specific country or customer where we see that it's good that we
hedge ourselves by selling the receivable or in some cases actually we see also that that
customers are themselves paying for sale of receivables. And then, of course, it's a no-brainer to
do that.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Richard. We'll take our next question from `Daniel Djurberg, Analyst, Handelsbanken from Handelsbanken. Daniel,
please go ahead.
Q - `Daniel Djurberg, Analyst, Handelsbanken `
Thank you and good day, gentlemen, and congrats on a solid year end and thanks for taking my
question. I would like to ask a little bit on coming back to the catch-up and the IPR revenues that
you see. And the question is really if the EUR1.4 billion low level that you aim for in technologies in
2024, if this is dependent also on that you signed recently expired name and if it's also includes
HP and Amazon that you have litigation for you or if you can or less meet this EUR1.4 billion also
out excluding these three.
A - `Marco Wiren, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. What comes to different deals and exactly their levels, we cannot go into as you
understand is confidential, but we have guided on the best knowledge that we have today and
would we see will happen throughout the year and we've been clear on that as well that this is
including the catch-up for those OPPO deal that we just signed and we also expect to sign couple
other deals in technologies that we have that has expired before the year end.
Q - `Daniel Djurberg, Analyst, Handelsbanken `
Perfect. And as a my follow-up if I may on the broadband equity and access deployment program
in the US. Have you seen any news there in terms of financing the early order intake. So if it still
your view that it will be supportive on the second half of this year. Thanks.
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Absolutely. It will be supportive and exactly as we said earlier the impact starts to be when we talk
about sales, it starts to gradually come in, in the second half of the year. We have a lot of stuff in
the pipeline that we're working on at the moment. So second half of '24 and then of course '25 it
will play a meaningful role in NI especially Fixed Networks, but there could also be benefits to IP
Networks and Optical Networks. Of course, we need to keep in mind that when we talk about the
EUR42 billion total program value approximately 10% of that is addressable to us, the rest will go
to something else like digging cables into the ground.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Daniel. We'll take our next question from `Joseph Zhou, Analyst, Barclays from Barclays. Joseph, please go
ahead.
Q - `Joseph Zhou, Analyst, Barclays `
Hi. Thank you for taking my questions. One, and then the follow-up. So firstly, on your free cash
flow conversion guidance for 2024. It remains well below the long-term target despite a boost
from the IPR cash out payments. I understand you talked about the moving parts, restructuringand also some pre-payments already happened. Are there any reasons for us not to expect a
bigger working capital reversal given the 5G cycle? Just wondering what are we missing here.
A - `Marco Wiren, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, just like you mentioned as well that we will have a negative impact by the prepayments that
we received in Technologies in '23 and then we expect also working capital to continue to have a
positive impact. But these, if you sum up these, we believe that we are well in the range that we
have guided, which is improving from last year. Last year range that we guided was 20% to 50%,
now it's 30% to 60% and then year after that, we believe they will be a well in our long-term
guidance range as well. So it's step by step improvement that we see in the free cash flow
conversion ratios.
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And when it comes to -- comes to net working capital, we already saw good release in Q4 last
year, which was one of the drivers behind the strong cash flow in Q4. There is still additional
potential there but I'm just kind of saying that part of it was already released in Q4. Then there is
the EUR700 million prepayments in Tech -- or EUR700 million no -- sorry, I take it back, EUR700
million lower cash compared to sales -- net sales in '24 in Tech. Then there is restructuring cash
outflow in 2024 and then since you mentioned the catch-up payments, there you have to
remember that that will be both cash and revenue in '24. So that does not improve the
conversion. It improves the absolute cash absolutely, but it does not improve the conversion.
Q - `Joseph Zhou, Analyst, Barclays `
Thank you. And then just a follow-up on the BEAD projects in North America. Just wondering how
much contribution have you baked into your 2% to 8% NI growth from these BEAD projects in
North America. And also you talked about better orders you are seeing for these projects. And
what's your visibility to the timing of these projects delivery?
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, well, as I said, the timing is such that we start to see top line effects of it in the second half
of -- gradually in the second half of 2024 and then into 2025. We have a strong pipeline of
opportunities. If I'm not mistaken, there were something small in the order intake already in Q4,
but that was small. So it is taking off gradually these things because they are politically driven.
They always take -- take time. First, you allocate the money on the federal level, then it goes to
the state levels and then gradually it fluctuates the different opportunity -- opportunities with
carriers. We have not quantified exactly how much of this would be in the 2% to 8% growth
assumption in NI but as I said it's H2 driven and and it's not huge yet in 2024. It will grow gradually
throughout the second half and then into '25.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Joseph. We'll take our next question from `Artem Beletski, Analyst, SEB Enskilda from SEB. Artem, please go
ahead.
Q - `Artem Beletski, Analyst, SEB Enskilda `
Yes, hello, and thank you for taking my question. I would like to actually ask on European
development and looking at revenue trends. So it seems to be -- it's a case that declines have
been accelerating also excluding Technologies related impact in Q4. Could you maybe talk a bitmore what is happening in this area. Is there also potentially some inventory digestion which is
ongoing in the market?
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I mean, there -- I mean, there will be some inventory digestion. But the real issue in Europe is
really, the weak economy operators high leverage, high interest rates and consequently their low
appetite to invest. The big question is that, when will that start to change of course lower interest
rates would be great to that end, but fundamentally, I believe that they will have to start investing
again. And of course they are talking about it, but we have not seen that much yet.
What I'm afraid, and this is my big -- big worry, I mean, not that much about Nokia but as a
European, there is a risk that Europe falls behind the rest of the world in terms of
competitiveness because of the quality of digital infrastructure that we have. The 5G deployment
is slower in Europe than in other parts of the world. Politicians and operators understand it. They
are talking about it. It remains to be seen when that will start to change, but I'm convinced that it
will change, but these things like mid-band penetration in 5G radio, et cetera, it is clearly lower in
Europe than in many other parts -- parts of the world. But again, what we would hope to of
course see that -- that the operator market in Europe would consolidate so that we would get
stronger -- financially stronger operators.
In Europe, there is one operator per 4 million to five million inhabitants and that is of course a
totally different level than in any other parts of the world. In India, there is -- there is -- depending
on how you calculate three or four operators per 1.3 billion people. In China, there is three
operators per 1.3 billion people. And in Europe, we have one operator for 4.5 million people. So
the market is so fragmented that it does need to get consolidated. That's one aspect of the
picture, but then there are others, as I said, interest rates, et cetera.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Do you have a follow-up, Artem?
Q - `Artem Beletski, Analyst, SEB Enskilda `
Yes, the follow-up would be actually relating on some good strides what you are making on
switching side. And could you maybe comment on profitability of this business, how we should
think about it. Is it more like IP Networks type of margin what you're making there?
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, that is, of course, highly confidential when we get to one product group for one customer
group. But of course, all this has been assumed in the targets that we have, both short term and
long-term targets that we have put ourselves for the NI business. IP business has good
profitability and the target that we have for that business will, of course, stay there also including
the growth in switching.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Artem. We'll take our last question from `Aleksander Peterc, Analyst, Societe Generale from Societe Generale. Alex,
please go ahead and if you don't mind, keeping it to one question just given the time.
Q - `Aleksander Peterc, Analyst, Societe GeneraleYes, thank you. Just a quick one to come back on Mobile Networks very briefly. Could you give us
a broad idea of when you expect Mobile Networks to kind of bottom out and flatten instead of
2025 event or will happen later. Maybe another way of asking this is at what point do you expect
the AT&T 5G footprint loss resulting from last year's decision to wash out of the base. I know you
gave some color on AT&T and all the puts and takes, but just to give us a broad idea there. Thank
you.
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I mean, I understand the question very well, but you will appreciate that it's extremely difficult to
answer because as I said, first of all, we cannot comment the AT&T situation before we have
concluded the negotiations. That is one thing, and of course, we expect to continue, one way or
another, at least to continue to be a supplier there as well. Then there is the whole Indian
question. Volumes are right now going down. What will happen in India, which operators will invest
and how much and when, how will the 4G re-farming take place in India, et cetera, et cetera. And
then there is this whole question of when will the data traffic will grow to a level where operators
throughout the world, including in Europe will be forced to invest. So it is simply too early to say
that when mobile networks would have reached the bottom.
Our outlook for this year we have wanted to be realistic that's why we are saying 1% to 4%
comparable operating margin. But we are sticking to our longer-term ambition to reach this what
Sami also referred to in his question that with 10 billion sales we target 10% operating margin.
That's how we are modeling the business, but that does require that we also penetrate into non-
CSP segments in the second half of 2020s.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Alex. And thank you everyone for joining us today. This concludes the Q&A section and
today's call. I would like to remind you that during the call today, we have made a number of
forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may therefore differ
materially from the results currently expected. Factors that could cause such differences can be
both external as well as internal operating factors. We have identified such risks in the risk factors
section of our annual report on Form 20-F, which is available on our Investor Relations website.
Thank you for joining us.
Operator
The conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now
disconnect.