Y 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
`David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to Nokia's Fourth Quarter 2024 Results Call. I'm
`David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations, Head of Nokia Investor Relations. And today, with me is `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer, our
President and CEO, along with `Marco Wiren, Chief Financial Officer, our CFO.
Before we get started, a quick disclaimer. During this call, we will be making forward-looking
statements regarding our future business, proposed transactions and financial performance. And
these statements are predictions that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may therefore
differ materially from the results we currently expect.
Factors that could cause such differences can be both external as well as internal operating
factors. We have identified such risks in the Risk Factors section of our Annual Report on Form 20-
F, which is available on our Investor Relations website.
Within today's presentation, references to growth rates will mostly be on a constant currency
basis and in relation to margins will be based on our comparable reporting. Please note that in
our -- that our Q4 report and the presentation that accompanies this call are published on our
website. The report includes both reportable and comparable financial results and the
reconciliation between the two.
In terms of the agenda for today, Pekka will go through the key messages for the quarter, Marco
will go through our financial performance and then Pekka will make a few comments on some
particular highlights from the quarter. We'll then move on to Q&A.
With that, let me hand over to Pekka.
`Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, David, and thank you all for joining us today. I'm pleased to share with you that we
finished '24 with a strong quarter. The improved order trends we have talked about in recentquarters were now clearly visible also in our net sales with 9% growth in the fourth quarter.
Network Infrastructure grew 17% in Q4, with all units growing and with IP Networks, the standout
performer, growing 24%. We also had a very strong performance in Nokia Technologies, with
several new deals signed, increasing our net sales run rate to now approximately between EUR1.3
billion to EUR1.4 billion.
Cloud and Network Services also grew 7% despite a 4-percentage point headwind from a prior
disposal. Mobile Networks saw its sales trend stabilize, as the more challenging comparisons in
India are now behind us and we saw stronger demand in Q4 in North America.
The strong Q4 sales and high contribution from Nokia Technologies led to a comparable gross
margin of 47.2% in the quarter and an operating margin of 19.1%. This is the highest quarterly
operating margin we have seen at Nokia since 2015.
We also had a strong year for cash generation with a free cash flow of EUR2 billion. Our year-end
net cash balance was EUR4.9 billion, even after returning EUR1.4 billion to shareholders during the
year, during -- through both share buybacks and dividends.
I will come back to this topic, but with the momentum we are seeing in the data center space, we
are accelerating investments into our IP networks business and I'm really excited about this
opportunity. We will discuss our outlook a bit later, but I'm pleased to say that the improved
trends from the second half of '24 are expected to sustain into '25.
With that, let me hand over to Marco to go through the financials in a bit more detail.
`Marco Wiren, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Pekka, and hello from my side as well. I will start by discussing our overall Group
performance. As Pekka mentioned, we were very pleased to see the strong end to 2024. The
fourth quarter saw net sales growth of 9%. Gross margin increased by 250 basis points to 47.2%.
And this was due to the increased contribution from Nokia Technologies and improvements in
other business groups. Our quarter four operating margin expanded 380 basis points year-on-
year to 19.1%.
I will now look at the performance of our business groups starting with Network Infrastructure. We
saw a strong finish to '24, with all units growing in quarter four. IP networks had a very strong
quarter with 24% growth. Fixed networks grow 16% and optical 7%. And this growth was mainly
driven by improvement trends among CSP customers and regionally in North America and India.
Gross margin expanded 70 basis points to 45.4%. And this was mainly driven by beneficial
product mix. The operating margin was very strong at 19.6% in the quarter, as we also continued
our prudent cost management.
And in Mobile Networks, net sales declined by 2% in the quarter. After some very challenging
quarters, we are now seeing net sales trends to start stabilize. Pleasingly, North America net sales
increased by double digit while India net sales stabilized.
Gross margin declined slightly by 20 basis points, but remains at robust 38.1%. And operating
margin was 7.7%, decrease of 380 basis points versus the prior year, as underlying cost
reductions were offset by higher variable pay accruals.
Cloud and Network Services net sales grew by 7% in the quarter, with strong growth in North
America. And this was despite a negative impact of approximately 4 percentage points related toa divestment earlier in 2024. Growth was mainly driven by core networks and Enterprise Campus
Edge. Gross margin was strong as was operating margin, which came in at 22.4% for the quarter,
with profit weighted towards quarter four, as is typical seasonality for this business.
And before moving to Nokia Technologies, I also wanted to bring to your attention the fact that
we have now moved our managed services business from Cloud and Network Services to Mobile
Networks as of January 1, 2025. The managed services business provides outsourced network
management of multi-vendor RAN networks for operators. And considering CNS is increasingly
transitioning towards cloud-native software sales as a service product offerings and helping
customers to monetize networks through APIs, we believe this business is more aligned and fits
better with mobile networks.
And based on 2024 results, this change is expected to lead to a transfer of about EUR430 million
of net sales and approximately EUR40 million of operating profit from CNS to Mobile Networks.
And we will provide recap financial information for 2024 reflecting this change prior to our
quarter-one financial results.
Turning now to Nokia Technologies, net sales grew by an impressive 85% in quarter four, and this
was due to a combination of the increased annual net sales run rate from new deals signed in
both quarter four and earlier this year or 2024, along with some catch-up payments related to
deals signed in the quarter.
Agreements that signed -- were signed included Transsion and is a previously unlicensed mobile
device vendor and then multimedia-related agreements with HP and Samsung and other smaller
deals as well.
Nokia Technologies annual net sales run rate has been gradually increasing in the recent quarters
to approximately EUR1.3 billion to EUR1.4 billion, and this shows a good progress on the journey to
achieve our mid-term target of EUR1.4 billion to EUR1.5 billion.
Let's now look at the net sales by region. The biggest contributors to the net sales growth were
North America and India. In North America, we saw a meaningful improvement in demand from
telecom operators supporting all of our businesses. The growth in India was mainly driven by
Network Infrastructure and especially by fixed networks, where we benefited from strong fixed
wireless access demand.
And in Europe, we saw a resilient market performance. But the growth in the region mainly
relates to Nokia Technologies' performance. And elsewhere, most markets were relatively stable
in the fourth quarter, although the competitive environment remains challenging in Latin America.
2024 has ended as a strong year for cash generation. On the whole, it played out as we
expected in many respects, but we performed a bit better on each metric. Our prudent cost
management also helped us to manage our CapEx requirements in the business this year. And
we put significant focus on improving our working capital position, which yielded good results,
and this was one of the biggest drivers of our strong cash performance. And we ended the
quarter with a net cash position of EUR4.9 billion, which means that we start 2025 with a strong
balance sheet and will remain in a good position, even considering the impact of the Infinera
acquisition.
And looking at our cash performance since 2022 -- oh, sorry, 2020, we have much stronger track
record of cash generation. Looking forward, we forecast free cash flow conversion of between
50% and 80% in 2025.And during 2024, we returned EUR1.4 billion to shareholders in total. EUR710 million was returned
through dividends and EUR680 million via buybacks. And you will recall that during '24, we
accelerated the 2-year EUR600 million buyback program and had completed it already within one
year.
In November, we then announced and started a new buyback program to offset the dilutive
effect of the Infinera acquisition, and this program is still ongoing. Given our cash performance in
the year, we are pleased to announce that the Board of Directors is proposing a dividend
authorization of EUR0.14 per share in respect of financial year 2024. And this is a EUR0.01
increase from the EUR0.13 the year before.
And with that, let me hand over to Pekka to go through some of the business highlights.
`Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Marco. So, along with our solid financial performance in '24, we took some important
steps to ensure Nokia has the right foundation for future success. Most notable were the actions
we took in active managing our -- actively managing our portfolio.
You will recall that earlier this year, we announced the divestment of our Submarine Networks
business, which then closed at the end of 2024. We also sold our device management and
service management in CNS to Lumine Group.
From an acquisition standpoint, there were three important deals this year, all of which strengthen
our position in markets where we see significant future growth potential. We announced our
intention to acquire Infinera, which will both strengthen our position in optical networking and
accelerate our growth opportunities in the data center market.
We've been making good progress with the required approvals. You may have seen that we filed
with the EU last week. Assuming we achieved the targeted timelines, we now expect the deal to
close already during the first quarter of 2025. And internally, we are well prepared to move
quickly on integration once the deal formally closes.
We also acquired Fenix in order to strengthen our position in the defense industry, adding their
innovative broadband tactical communications products. The acquisition closed in May 2024, and
we have moved quickly to accelerate product roadmaps even now launching a 5G tactical radio
solution in the fourth quarter. This is a longer-term opportunity, of course, but we are progressing
well.
In November, we announced that we had acquired Rapid's technology and R&D unit. This
acquisition gives us the world's largest API hub used by thousands of developers globally along
with strengthening our R&D capabilities.
Another of our strategic objectives has been to diversify our business and accelerate our growth
outside of our traditional service provider markets. As we have highlighted before, this includes a
number of different growth areas for Nokia and we intend to frame this better for you at our
Capital Markets Day later this year.
2024 was a more challenging year for our enterprise sales, and we ended with a 4% decline in
constant currency. This was partly due to lumpiness that we see in some of the web-scale deals
after strong growth in '22 and '23, but also the broader weakness in enterprise demand that has
been visible among many of our peers.Since 2017, we have sustained a 10% CAGR in enterprise and while the sales trend was more
challenging in '24, we took a number of steps that I believe will keep us on a double-digit growth
trajectory in the years to come, including 2025. This is supported by the significant order intake
we saw in Enterprise Campus Edge in Q4.
We won a number of key deals, for example, in IP networks with Microsoft and Nscale. We also
continue to expand our go-to-market partnerships. In Q4, we announced partnerships with
Kyndryl and Lenovo that will increase our reach into the data center market. With these
foundations and the Infinera acquisition, we will have a strong base for which to sustain growth in
these markets going forward.
Considering our momentum, let me now touch upon some decisions we have made regarding
the potential we see in the future. We decided in Q4 that we will accelerate our investment in our
IP networks business. We will invest up to an additional EUR100 million of annual operating
expenses with a view to generating incremental net sales of EUR1 billion by 2028.
Nokia's IP Networks products are well known in the CSP market for their quality, robustness and
innovation. We will look to bring this strong and proven reputation for quality to the data center
market and combine it with new market-leading automation capabilities from our event-driven
Automation solutions and our SR Linux operating system.
A notable example of this is the agreement with Microsoft. After three years of working with
them on SONiC, we are now increasingly being deployed across Microsoft data centers. And the
deal we announced in Q4 will see us deployed in over 30 countries globally.
Given the encouraging response to our products, we are doubling down on our investment in this
technology in order to be able to address the Hyperscaler, Telco Cloud and Enterprise customer
segments. These investments will bolster our R&D to broaden our product offering to meet
customer requirements. They will also further accelerate our go-to-market and channel
expansion. I'm really excited about this significant organic value creation opportunity for Nokia and
this will of course be complemented by the connections that Infinera has in webscale.
Then, if I touch on Mobile Networks, we explained to you all at the end of 2023 the actions we
are taking to renew our Mobile Networks strategy, both in terms of commercial actions and cost
management. I spoke to you last quarter about how quickly we have moved on the cost piece
and you're already seeing some of the benefits of that in our second-half performance.
From a commercial perspective, we have had a highly successful year in terms of deal traction
while maintaining our commercial and pricing discipline. Since the start of 2024, we have won
18,000 new base station sites on a net basis, including 12 wins with completely new RAN
customers. We also expanded our RAN share with 10 customers and this success has been across
all regions globally.
Now, clearly, we did not win every deal, but this 18,000 sites is already considering the few
instances where there has been increased competition, especially from Chinese vendors. We
have seen good deal momentum in Cloud and Network Services, which we believe will continue
into 2025. We now have 117 customers for our 5G standalone core, although not all have
deployed yet. Currently, it is a reality that only 20% to 25% of CSPs have deployed 5G standalone
core.
According to the GSMA, approximately 60 operators have already deployed standalone core and
we are supplying to about 45 of them. Many operators will of course have multiple suppliers, butthis still shows how strong our position is in this market and how strong the traction we have in 5G
core.
One key growth opportunity for CNS is in private wireless. We now have over 850 private
wireless customers, up from 710 a year ago, and these are covering a range of industries from
energy and transport to public sector and manufacturing.
One other focus area is helping operators to monetize their networks with our network as core
initiative. We are now up to 48-network API partners, which includes 24 operators and a further 24
enterprise and ecosystem partners such as Google and Infobip.
As mentioned in the fourth quarter, we also acquired Rapid's technology assets and R&D team.
This will bolster our R&D capacity network as code and gives us one of the largest API hubs in the
world. Taken together with our Autonomous Networks application suite, we are enabling
operators to fully automate and monetize their networks. Our progress here has also been
acknowledged, with both ABI and Analysys Mason recognizing Nokia as one of the clear market
leaders in this field.
Before turning to our full-year outlook, I wanted to provide some color on how we see the market
dynamics for each of our business groups as we enter 2025. Starting with Network Infrastructure,
we expect the improving market trend that we saw in the second half to continue in 2025.
Ultimately, we see this driving strong growth for Network Infrastructure, with supportive trends
across each of the businesses.
Then on Mobile Networks, we saw some stabilization in market demand towards the end of '24
and we believe we could see some recovery in spending as we progress through '25. Let me
remind you that we will face a bit of a headwind this year in North America from a customer
decision made in 2023. We estimate this to be an approximately 4-percentage point headwind to
the business this year. But even considering this, we expect net sales to be largely stable for
Mobile Networks this year, meaning of course that the rest of all of our customers will
compensate for that 4-percentage point drop with that one customer.
As I just mentioned, we are also seeing good momentum in Cloud and Network Services as we
enter 2025, particularly in core networks and Enterprise Campus Edge. These trends should drive
overall growth in Cloud and Network Services this year.
And then finally, on Nokia Technologies, we look to continue making progress towards our mid-
term run rate target of between EUR1.4 billion to EUR1.5 billion, particularly in our growth areas.
We are targeting to deliver approximately EUR1.1 billion operating profit for this business in 2025.
Then moving to our formal outlook for '25, we expect a comparable operating profit of between
EUR1.9 billion and EUR2.4 billion for the full year on an organic basis excluding the Infinera
acquisition. If you consider the one-time items that benefited 2024 by over EUR700 million, which
were mostly in the first half of the year, this guidance would imply a strong improvement in our
comparable operating profit in '25, despite the selected increased investments like the EUR100
million plan into IP.
As a reminder, these one-time items include the exceptional catch-up contribution in Q1 '24 in
Nokia Technologies, the settlement we had with AT&T in Q2 and then some other provision
reversals in Q3. With respect to free cash flow, we expect to convert 50% to 80% of comparable
operating profit into cash.So, in summary, we are pleased with the strong end to 2024 in terms of profitability and cash. In
addition, we have made some important strategic steps which, we believe, will position us well
for growth in the future. And finally, and most importantly, we are encouraged to see the sales
momentum we saw in Q4 continue into 2025.
So, let me now hand over back to David for Q&A.
`David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Pekka and Marco, for the presentations. Before we move to the Q&A session, just a
quick comment on our plans for investor events this year. We are working, as we mentioned last
quarter, to confirm dates for the Capital Markets Day. We will look to confirm this to you as soon
as we -- as soon as it's possible.
But with that, let's start with the Q&A. As usual, for the Q&A session, as a courtesy to others in
the queue, could you please limit yourself to one question and a brief follow-up? Janet, could you
please give the instructions?
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. We'll now begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) I will now
hand the call back to Mr. `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you. We'll take our first question today from `Joachim Gunell, Analyst, DnB from DNB. Joachim, please go
ahead.
Q - `Joachim Gunell, Analyst, DnB `
Thank you. So, I know you don't guide on gross margin specifically and there you -- also have
some divisional, call it, market dynamics comment here. But what looks to be -- I mean, when it
comes to the guide for 2025, the deviation versus the consensus appears to be mainly Mobile
Networks-driven.
So, can you just comment a bit here on a Group level that you don't guide on sales? Does this
mean that you still expect fairly low visibility for the full-year 2025? And is there anything that you
can say with regards to Mobile Networks' gross margin for 2025 in relation to the 38% you
showed here in Q4? Thank you.
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, thank you. That's actually several questions you are asking, so let me try to take that piece
by piece. So, if I take first the visibility question, I would say that, as we start '25, our visibility is
much better than it was a year ago. Our order backlog has continued to grow through the year
and the CapEx commentary from our customers is now more robust and we are optimistic about
our opportunity to grow in addition to CSPs on the enterprise markets, including the data center.
So, I would not say that we have lower visibility.
You are of course right that we are not providing the level of explicit net sales assumptions yet
that we provided last year for our businesses. But we did say however that we expect strong
growth in NI, we expect growth in CNS and we expect stable sales in MN despite a 4-percentageSo, the reason this is more than that in a dynamic market which is -- now seems to be changing to
the better, it's very hard to gauge exactly that's what the pace of recovery will be. But the signs
we see are clearly encouraging for the topline of '25. And we also need to remember that of
course we will be adding Infinera after closure. And of course, once Infinera closes then we will be
for the first time in a position to comment also their outlook.
And then, finally, the Mobile Networks' gross margin there were also here, as you remember,
some one-offs that we need to understand in 2024. So, the underlying performance we have had
in '24 has been 38% to 39% in Mobile Networks' gross margin, excluding those for example the
AT&T settlement in Q2.
So, looking into '25, the real question will be around the regional dynamics. But I would not make
a clear comment either way at this point. The underlying last year was 38% to 39%, which is
pretty much what we saw in Q4.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Joachim. We'll take our next question from `Simon Leopold, Analyst, Raymond James from Raymond James.
Simon, please go ahead.
Q - `Simon Leopold, Analyst, Raymond James `
Great. Thanks for taking the question. I wanted to see if we could maybe double-click a bit on the
trends with the hyperscalers. In particular, I appreciate the 2028 outlook regarding sort of that
EUR1 billion target. I think what I'm looking for is something a little bit more shorter term and what
you're seeing in the next year or year-plus in terms of that group of customers. Then I've got a
quick follow-up.
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, Simon, thank you. This is of course one of the most important questions we are also
internally focusing on because hyperscalers and data centers, they are clearly one of the best
growth opportunities that we will have. And that's why we decided to double down from
investment point of view and -- because we see so big growth opportunities there.
We have had good deal traction, and I just mentioned two, Microsoft and Nscale, that we both
published in Q4. Then, Infinera will of course add a lot of capabilities for the optical side, both for
data center interconnect and then inside the data center also where the servers will be
increasingly connected through optical technologies, something that Infinera is particularly strong
on.
Then, looking at the big picture in data centers, of course the reality is that we are still today
compared to the dominant players in that industry, we are a fairly small challenger, which means
that this is definitely on the opportunity side for us. And all you need to do is to, for example, look
at the Microsoft and Meta results last night where both gave CapEx guidance for very strong
growth in 2025.
So, this market is clearly accelerating. Then of course, the recent announcements we saw on the
new lower cost platforms, they will most likely increase competition in data centers. There will be
also lower cost alternatives available, which should increase the application possibilities for AI and
consequently data centers, for example, in an industrial application in edge compute applications
for various workloads.So, overall, we are strongly optimistic when it comes to this market, both for web scalers, for the
plans of telcos and enterprises, and the additional investment that we are making together with
the Infinera acquisition will strengthen our capabilities here.
This is one area where we will definitely focus on in the upcoming Capital Markets Day later this
year. And that is also the reason, both the pending Infinera situation and the upcoming Capital
Markets Day, why we are not yet giving more tangible targets for this year or next year. We just
wanted to give you the highlight of that EUR1 billion additional revenue that we are targeting
through the EUR100 million investment -- additional investment that we are making in IP.
Q - `Simon Leopold, Analyst, Raymond James `
Thanks. And then as the follow-up, very much related question, what are your telco customers
saying to you about the impact of AI on their business and what that might mean for Nokia?
Thank you.
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thanks. That's another highly relevant question. And there has been some announcements,
even I just referred to the T Mobile announcement where they are talking about the acceleration
of AI -- of their AI strategy, and we are one of the partners that they are working on together.
The -- I mean, obviously there are some obvious things telcos, customer service and network
management and network security and intrusion detection, et cetera, where AI is already now
making a big impact. But then, the bigger strategic question for telcos going forward is that how
they are going to position in terms of other workloads than their traditional own workloads. And
here, the sweet spot, which also will be in a way a battleground between telcos and hyperscalers
and enterprise's own cloud is going to be the edge compute market.
And many of the telcos are currently thinking to what extent they should be in a way providing
workload processing capabilities at the edge of the networks, combining potentially their
presence through the base station network and offer edge compute capabilities for enterprise
industrial workloads. So, that edge will be a highly dynamic part of the market going forward and
there will be many different entrepreneurs that will go -- will want to go after that market.
And the good thing for Nokia obviously is that we are working with telcos, we are working with
hyperscalers and we are increasingly working also direct with enterprise customers to go after
that opportunity.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Simon. We'll take our next question from `Artem Beletski, Analyst, SEB Enskilda from SEB. Artem, please go
ahead.
Q - `Artem Beletski, Analyst, SEB Enskilda `
Yes, thank you for taking my question and congrats on strong profitability in Q4. I would like to ask
about growth trajectory when it comes to NI segment. So, could you maybe comment on sub-
segment level of basically, IP opticals fixed, what kind of development you see there for this
year?
And maybe just when it comes to double digit growth, what you are talking about, is it -- sorry,
not double digit but strong growth what you are talking about, is it double-digit growth in your
books or not?A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
The -- of course, since we did not attach a number to that double -- not double digit, but strong --
you are putting words in my mouth now, which I did not want to do. But when we said strong
growth, we decided not to put the number, a clear figure on it. Of course, 17% growth that we
saw in Q4, that would be more than just strong growth. But we are not going to be more specific
than that.
We see clearly opportunities in all three segments of NI, very much including in optical which
typically, and we've been talking about this earlier, is the last one to recover. You already saw
strong recovery in both fixed and IP. We expect these trends to continue and then also optical
picking up. And then of course, once Infinera closes that will then boost our optical capabilities a
lot.
So, yes, market trend to continue that we are now seeing into '25, expect strong growth further
boosted by optical. But we are not at this stage going to put a clear figure on this.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Did you have a quick follow-up, Artem?
Q - `Artem Beletski, Analyst, SEB Enskilda `
Yes, I do. And that is actually related to technologies segment. And could you maybe a bit more
talk about multimedia space. And so, now, you have done two deals in the quarter. How
meaningful opportunity to deal on that front and just challenging you -- that you have only EUR100
million lacking to reach mid-term target. Isn't the opportunity bigger when it comes to new
growth areas what you're addressing right now?
A - `Marco Wiren, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thank you, Artem. And we definitely see opportunities in the new growth areas, as we call
them, including automotive, IoT, multimedia, and as we said specifically also, video streaming
side. And we -- already in 2022 we had two video streaming contracts that we announced. And
then, also in quarter four we had a -- on the device side -- video device side, we had HP and
Samsung.
So, automotive also has been tracking extremely well. And we see good opportunities in these
new growth areas. And we haven't updated but since -- last time we updated was December '23,
and then we said that these new growth areas, topline of sales was about EUR150 million for the
previous 12-months period.
And we will provide you an updated figure for this segment -- all these segments later this year
as well. And specifically in the Capital Markets Day we'll give much more information about this.
But we believe that we are continuing to make very good progress here, and we also see that
there's plenty of untapped opportunities.
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Maybe just to add one thing, Artem, to what Marco said, and we need to remember that the
definition of the run rate when we are communicating is really that, that is the -- in a way, the
annualized value of the contract base that we currently have.And what we then always typically have is then some catch-up payments in new deals, which then
explain the difference between the realized sales in any given year and the run rate that we've
been communicating. And of course, '24 was exceptional from this point of view because of the
more than EUR400 million catch-ups that we had in Q1. And as we did say, there were some
catch-ups also in Q4, which explains the difference between Q4 and then the run rate that we are
talking about. And of course, there could be catch-up payments also in the future. But we feel
that it's important to communicate in the way the base -- the contract base value that we
currently have at hand.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Artem. We'll take our next question from `Sami Sarkamies, Analyst, Danske Bank from Danske Bank. Sami,
please go ahead.
Q - `Sami Sarkamies, Analyst, Danske Bank `
Hi. Thanks. I wanted to revisit your data center growth plans and expectations related to that
area. Do I understand it right that you're planning to grow operating expenses by EUR300 million
over a three-year period and you expect this to translate into an additional EUR1 billion of annual
sales? Can you also perhaps elaborate a bit on the split between R&D and go-to-market
investments? And what is roughly the starting position for your data center sales today, including
Infinera?
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Sami. We have not yet put a figure on our existing data center sales. These are going to
be Capital Markets Day comments. The reason we are waiting with that is that we want to get
Infinera closed because that's going to be such a fundamentally important piece of all of this.
There has been growth in data centers. We have a very interesting starting position, but the
reality is that in the big scheme of things, compared to the giants that sell billions and billions to
this market, we are still a small player.
Yes, the EUR100 million, it will gradually ramp during this year and we expect to reach that
EUR100 million run rate towards the end of the year and then keep it there. So, roughly speaking,
the numbers that you quoted are in the right ballpark. And absolutely yes, this additional
investment is targeted to deliver additional EUR1 billion of sales in the year 2028.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Did you have (multiple speakers)...
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sorry, I forgot the other part of your question, which was the split between -- the EUR100 million
between different items. It will be both R&D and then go-to-market and channel expansion, both
are going to be important. But also here we are not providing this split at the moment.
It is important to do both. And again, because the market opportunity is so large, it absolutely is
going to be a good investment to also increase our R&D expenditure in this segment. As you
know, we've been taking out a lot of cost from our business during the last four quarters to five
quarters.
It's very important to keep in mind that going forward, this is not going to be only about cost
reduction. We need to reallocate some of that reduced cost into growth opportunities. Andagain, in today's world, one of the biggest, if not the biggest growth opportunity is data centers.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Did you have a quick follow-up, Sami?
Q - `Sami Sarkamies, Analyst, Danske Bank `
Well, maybe, just wanted to double check that if we also consider the EUR200 million synergy
target for Infinera acquisition, should we assume a cost base in '27 that is higher than today?
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Also, that is too early to comment. We maintain what we said about the EUR100 million additional
investment and then the EUR200 million synergy target in Infinera by '27. Of course, we have to
remember that there will be no more cost inflation and then where exactly we put the investment
levels, it will have to be balanced with the size of the opportunity and the market development
forward. So, it's a bit premature to draw the conclusion on that detailed level as you just did.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Sami. We'll take our next question from `Sandeep Deshpande, Analyst, JP Morgan from JP Morgan. Sandeep,
please go ahead.
Q - `Sandeep Deshpande, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Yeah, hi, thanks for letting me on. My question is going back to the Mobile Networks business. I
mean, you've had some challenges in the business. You've guided to a flattish trend despite
some parts of the business declining. Where is -- I mean, where is this business? I mean, how do
you -- would you call it, Pekka, that the business is now properly turned around, this will, you know,
take you to where it needs to go? And do you need to take more new contracts there? Do you
need to adjust the cost there? What will make you believe that, you know, the market is on a
stable trajectory going from here as such or is it already there? And I have a quick follow-up.
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, the key thing in Mobile Networks is really, really going to be the question of how to drive
topline in the future. We have now a very strong base in terms of our technology
competitiveness, confirmed by the customer traction that we have had this year, but the -- or that
we had last year and we expect to continue this year.
But the reality in Mobile Networks is that the service provider market will not be a significant
growth market. There will be most likely some small recovery in the market -- overall market this
year. And again, when we are guiding largely stable sales for this year, it means that when AT&T
is expected to decline 4% on the MN level, it means that then the other customers will grow -- ex-
AT&T will grow 4%.
So, that is showing that the market is turning and we are taking our share of that turn. But still, the
reality is that looking between today and 2028, '29, this will not be a big growth market for
operators. That's why it is so important to go after the growth segments, which obviously are
private wireless, private networks and then other segments like public safety authorities networks
and very importantly, the defense sector, because again, the defense spending in the world
unfortunately is going up pretty much everywhere. And, we are now in a very exciting position
when we launched our 5G based tactical radio solution in Q4. We are offering 5G as afundamental communications platform for the military, including for tactical battlefield
communications systems.
In many cases today when you look at military communications, the capabilities of those systems
are close to what we would call 3G capabilities, both in terms of speed and quality and security
and so on. There is a significant opportunity to upgrade through 4G and especially 5G. And we
are seeing increased traction in this market. And we believe that the acquisition of Fenix was
extremely well timed.
As I have said several times, this business takes some patience because sales cycles are really,
really long. But hopefully, in not too distant a future, we will be able to come with new concrete
announcements on our progress in this segment. This is a significant part of MN's strategy.
So, you need to keep both CSPs flat to slow growth market, enterprise, private wireless, strong
growth market, and defense going to be a strong growth market. They all are important
elements in our MN strategy.
Q - `Sandeep Deshpande, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Thanks, Pekka. I mean just a quick follow-up on Nokia Technologies. I mean, you've had some
major, you know, deals signed with video [ph] recently. Is this -- I mean you've talked about the
new end markets like autos, et cetera, that you are targeting. But is this new -- the new IP -- not
new IP but, you know, old IP -- I mean, updated IP that you have now begun licensing, is this going
to be a major opportunity for Nokia?
A - `Marco Wiren, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thank you, Sandeep. As I said earlier as well, we definitely believe that there are growth
opportunities in those new areas that we are targeting and we continue to invest in R&D in these
areas. And just like you mentioned, video streaming is one of those areas. But also, we see more
opportunities in IoT consumer electronics and even automotive.
And here, we definitely believe that going forward, if we look at the Nokia Technologies, to be
able to reach also the run rate that we have targeted, but also beyond that, because that run rate
that we have, it doesn't mean that we will stop there, but we will continuously invest in new areas,
R&D, and capture those opportunities by our technologies.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Sandeep. We'll take our next question from `Daniel Djurberg, Analyst, Handelsbanken from Handelsbanken.
Daniel, please go ahead.
Q - `Daniel Djurberg, Analyst, Handelsbanken `
Thank you, David and, hi, Pekka and Marco. Yeah, (technical difficulty) question from me on your
Mobile Networks. You comment to have won 18,000 additional base station sites net in 2024. I
was wondering if you possibly could give us a gross number and possibly also talk about this from
a geographical point of view and perhaps also comment on the ASP trend you see on BCS year-
over-year on this 18,000. Thanks.
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thank you. We had actually -- if you go back to the presentation, so there was a regional split
on the -- both the new CSP customers that we have won and also the customers with which --with whom we had increased market share. So, more details than that we are not going to go
into. And of course, you will have seen some of the deal announcements that we have made.
And we continue to be encouraged on the ongoing deal momentum as well.
That 18,000, what does it really, really mean? It's in a way a net run rate change. So, you win
some deals in terms of your market position and then you lose some. And this is the net amount.
We are not publishing the gross amount. That's confidential. Of course, we have also won -- I
mean lost footprint with some customers. But clearly, clearly, we have won much more than we
have lost. And most of those losses that we had, which were not many by the way, they had to
deal with extremely aggressive pricing, typically from Chinese customers in those markets where
they are continuing to compete.
And we just want to be prudent with our pricing. We are not participating in the most aggressive
price wars. It would not make sense. But despite having this prudent strategy when it comes to
pricing, we had a highly successful year in terms of increasing our footprint on a net basis -- run
rate basis with 18,000 sites.
Q - `Daniel Djurberg, Analyst, Handelsbanken `
Perfect. Can I have a follow-up?
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Yeah.
Q - `Daniel Djurberg, Analyst, Handelsbanken `
On Cloud and Network Services, strong momentum, return to growth, et cetera. You mentioned
5G core being solid and you mentioned 20% to 25% of CSPs now being deployed by the
standalone.
Can you comment a bit on if they just touched their toes into this, i.e., are they talking about, you
know, a fully build of 5G standalone or is it still only deployed parts of the network, i.e., that we'll
see a substantial build out expansion also with these that has (technical difficulty) the standalone
and important network, just your thought on that.
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
In general, one of the things that has gone differently than at least I personally thought a few
years ago is the pace at which 5G standalone has expanded. It has gone more slowly than
anyone expected. But the momentum is picking up, and as I said, we have a really strong position
in that.
But from overall market point of view, as I said also in my remarks, only a small part of the market
is standalone today, which is one key reason why we do expect that CNS will have good growth
opportunities in the coming years and our relative position and our relative strength in that
market is strengthening. We have won several deals recently where we have displaced our
competitors in the core network. And this momentum is really a healthy one.
Still commenting another thing which is highly relevant for CNS is the Enterprise Campus Edge
business, which includes our 5G private wireless for enterprises. That is also looking strong. We
had some weakness in that business earlier in the year, but now looking at the order intake we
had especially in the -- in Q4, we expect strong growth in that business heading into 2025. So,
CNS is not only about the core network, it's very much also about Enterprise Campus Edge.Now, when we are transitioning Managed Services to Mobile Networks, it actually create a more
clean-cut software business portfolio for CNS, which I hope will be good for the transparency and
visibility of that business in the future.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Daniel. We'll take our next question from `Ulrich Rathe, Analyst, Bernstein from Bernstein. Ulrich, please go
ahead.
Q - `Ulrich Rathe, Analyst, Bernstein `
Yeah, thanks very much. My main question is whether you have any comments at this point about
the changes that are on the horizon from the new US administration's approach to China could
improve your competitive situation. I mean the reality is that the Chinese suppliers have held
better -- up better in terms of relative product quality according to third-party surveys than would
have been expected since the US started these efforts in 2018. Now, there may be more efforts.
And do you think something could happen there in terms of the competitiveness of your product
versus the Chinese product?
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
The -- of course, this is still very early days for the new administration and we need to see that
what the actions really will be. But of course, the reality is that in the US, the share of Chinese
suppliers is already very small. This question is much more relevant for the other parts of the
world. And then of course, how the overall tech war is going. But that's another question.
But if we look at the position of the Chinese suppliers, they are strongly in play in many European
markets still today. This is something that new European Commission will of course be discussing,
the question of the 5G toolbox in Europe, how it will be applied in the future, whether or not it will
be expanded to cover also other parts of the network besides 5G, as we have suggested.
And then, of course, the crucial important question also is that what will then happen in the rest of
the world, Latin America, Africa, Middle East, significant parts of Southeast Asia, where the
Chinese vendors are competing very strongly today, that will there be attempts by the US
administration to change the situation in these parts of the world. This is not for us to speculate.
This will be political questions and we are not a political actor. We are just observing the
outcomes of these discussions.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Ulrich. In the interest of time, we'll move to our next question...
Q - `Ulrich Rathe, Analyst, Bernstein `
(multiple speakers) follow-up.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
A quick one if you have one, Ulrich.
Q - `Ulrich Rathe, Analyst, Bernstein `
Yeah, the follow-up would only be, you answered it in -- mainly with regards to deployment
restrictions. But I was talking about the competitiveness of the product, which has something toproducing product that seems to be performing from a technology perspective rather well. I
mean, the deployment restriction is an entirely sort of different part of this pincer movement.
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, you're absolutely right, of course. These are two fundamentally different questions. And
this will very much depend on what type of access the Chinese vendors will have to the latest
silicon, what type of restrictions on chips will there be in the future and then what type of
capabilities they will have inside China.
Currently, the situation is that when it comes to the latest silicon that require EUV, they do not
have access. But it's too early to speculate what type of actions the new US administration will
take in many cases, together with the allies. This is not only a US question. European Union will
also have a lot to say on this. And then of course, the question that I'm not at all going to
speculate on is that what the internal development capabilities of China will be in the future.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Ulrich. We'll take our next question from `Rob Sanders, Analyst, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank. Rob,
please go ahead.
Q - `Rob Sanders, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Yeah, hi. There's some reports that the DOJ is investigating the Juniper deal. I was just wondering
if that deal, do you think, creates opportunities for you either already or perhaps in the future, just
because of the disruption that could come with that deal and because of perhaps partnerships
that Juniper previously had that maybe you could now take advantage of yourself. And I have a
follow-up. Thanks.
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I have no comment to that speculation. That is not for us to comment. But on a general level, of
course, always when there is M&A activities that creates opportunities for competitors, we of
course try to take advantage of that. And I know that when we are in M&A situations, our
competitors are trying to get advantage of that. So, there is nothing dramatic there. But we now
just need to see that -- what the outcome of that situation will be.
Q - `Rob Sanders, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Got it. And just as a follow-up, on the EUR100 million investment, is that primarily on R&D or is
there an effort to sort of build out a channel and a salesforce to leverage your tech advantage?
Thanks.
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
It's both. It's clearly both. There is an increase -- going to be increased R&D, but then a
meaningful portion of that additional investment will also go to go-to-market and channel and
partnership programs.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Rob. We'll take our next and potentially last question from `Felix Henriksson, Analyst, Nordea from
Nordea. Felix, please go ahead.Q - `Felix Henriksson, Analyst, Nordea `
Hi, guys. Thanks for squeezing me in. I wanted to touch on the full-year EBIT guidance and the
different scenarios that you've baked into the, one could say, relatively wide guidance range of
EUR1.9 billion to EUR2.4 billion. So, what in your eyes has to go well for you to get to the upper
end and, on the contrary, what happens if you get to the lower end of that guidance rate? Is it
mainly related to the topline recovery or are there other puts and takes? Thanks.
A - `Marco Wiren, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thank you, Felix. And as always, when we provide a range, we take into account what we
know and understand today of the market development. And the market is a clear [ph] one driver
and how this will evolve over the coming quarters. And what we see currently is that the
improving trends that we've seen in the second half of 2024 should continue into 2025 as well.
And this is supportive of the underlying improvement.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Did you have a quick follow-up, Felix?
Q - `Felix Henriksson, Analyst, Nordea `
Yeah, just quickly on how you consider the outlook for BEAD in the US and for fiber as the
dominant technology. So, just following Trump's election as the President, just curious to hear
your thoughts about that.
A - `Pekka Lundmark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
We have to remember that one key reason why the BEAD program was put together in addition
to accelerating broadband development in less populated parts of the US was really the
connection between BEAD and the requirement for local manufacturing. And of course, all
indications are that the new administration is even more keen, if possible, to attract US
manufacturing.
So, and that's exactly what we did. We started the manufacturing of broadband equipment in
Wisconsin. So, we believe that this type of actions that we have taken will be favored by the new
administration.
Then, the suggestion with BEAD is that we have seen that the money has been more or less
allocated to the 56 states and territories. They have received approval for their initial proposals.
We have received orders from three customers during Q4 and this is expected to gradually pick
up.
Then, if there will be some slowness -- additional slowness in the process or not because of the
administration change, we have not seen that, that would happen. But of course, it's very difficult
to speculate on something that you don't know. But I would be highly surprised if somehow, after
the money already has been allocated to the states, that there would somehow be a complete
reversal of this program.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Felix.
Q - `Felix Henriksson, Analyst, Nordea `Thank you.
A - `David Mulholland, Head of Investor Relations `
And thank you all for the questions today. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's call. I
would like to remind you that during the call today, we have made a number of forward-looking
statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may therefore differ materially from
the results currently expected.
Factors that could cause such differences can be both external as well as internal operating
factors. We have identified such risks in the Risk Factors section of our annual report on Form 20-
F, which is available on our Investor Relations website. Thank you all.
Operator
The conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now
disconnect.