Q4 2015 Earnings Call

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. I'm Emma, your Chorus Call operator. Welcome
and thank you for joining the SAP 2015 Full-Year Results Conference Call. Throughout today's
recorded presentation, all participants will be in listen-only mode. The presentation will be
followed by a question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.
`Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Yeah, thank you. Good morning, good afternoon. This is `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations, Head of Investor
Relations. Thank you for joining us to discuss our results for the fourth quarter 2015. I'm joined on
the phone by our CEO, Bill McDermott; and here in Walldorf by our CFO, `Luka Mucic, Chief Operating & Financial Officer. Both Bill and
Luka will make opening remarks on the call today. Also joining us in Walldorf for Q&A are board
members `Rob Enslin, President-Global Customer Operations, who runs Global Customer Operations; `Bernd Leukert, Member- Executive Board and Global Managing Board, who leads Product &
Innovation; and Steve Singh; Head of SAP Business Network.
Before we get started, I would like to say a few words about forward-looking statements. Any
statements made during this call that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as
defined in the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as anticipate,
believe, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, may, plan, project, predict, should, outlook and will
and similar expressions as they relate to SAP are intended to identify such forward-looking
statements.
SAP undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. All
forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual
result to differ materially from expectations. The factors that could affect SAP's future financial
results are discussed more fully in SAP's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,Participants of this call are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking
statements, which speak only as of their dates.
I would also like to invite you to our Capital Markets Day, which will be held on February 4 in New
York City. In addition, there will be other IR events in 2016, at CeBIT in Hannover, Germany on
March 15, and there's also an additional IR program at SAPPHIRE Orlando on May 18.
Furthermore, please keep in mind that unless otherwise noted, all numbers referred to on this
conference call are non-IFRS and growth rates are non-IFRS as reported.
And finally, as you know, Bill McDermott is joining us from Davos, so he's able to join the first 40
minutes of the call.
And with that, I would like to turn the call over to Bill.
`William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer & Member - Executive Board `
Thank you, Stefan. Hi, everyone. I'm joining here today, as Stefan said, from the 2016 World
Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. Leaders have gathered here to address issues like
expanding economic opportunity and winning the fight against cancer. It's a very fitting backdrop
for our discussion about how SAP has extended our leadership in the business software industry
while also remaining ever-driven to help the world run better and improve people's lives.
As you'll recall, over the past six years we set some audacious goals: to nearly double our
revenue to €20-plus billion by 2015, to reach €2 billion revenue in the cloud, to become the cloud
company powered by HANA and help customers run simple. So, let's take a look at where we're
at today.
Total revenue close to €21 billion, €2.3 billion in cloud subscription revenue, operating profit up
nearly 60% since 2010, and shareholder value doubled in six years. More than 95 million cloud
users. We have the most cloud users in the business software industry. A customer base that has
nearly tripled, now with over 300,000 customers in 190 countries around the world.
We achieved these results by focusing on our customers, then setting the right strategy for SAP.
Through organic innovation and strategic M&A, we have successfully executed on our strategy.
Today, we see soaring adoption of S/4HANA and our completeness of vision in the cloud is
driving significant market share gains against both core and narrowly focused cloud competitors.
Let me give you just a couple of headlines. Record cloud and software revenue up 20%,
decisively beating our full year guidance. We are one of the few companies that is growing both
in the cloud and on-premise license revenues. Operating profit was up 13%, which also beat the
top end of our guidance.
All lead indicators point to tremendous momentum in the cloud. New cloud bookings were up
103% in the full year. In 2015, cloud deferred revenue and backlog increased by €1.6 billion to
more than €4.6 billion, which greatly enhances the predictability of our future cloud revenue. The
percentage of more predictable revenue is steadily increasing year-over-year.
The simple truth is that we're growing really fast and our competition isn't. Just for comparison,
SAP's cloud and software revenue grew 18% year-on-year in Q4, Oracle decreased 4% in their
latest quarter. The spread is only getting larger.
Unlike others in our industry, every business we're in is customer-driven, fast-growth and solid
margin. Our portfolio is rock solid. We're not in any bad businesses. This Q4 and full year resultsrepresent one of SAP's strongest performances ever. We solidified our leadership in all
geographies and industries, and we delivered a disciplined, efficient and highly profitable growth
business that met or exceeded our guidance for the full year. Needless to say, we are very, very
proud of this performance.
Let's talk about SAP's world-class innovations. No company does more to help customers seize
the massive opportunities of this new economy than SAP, and it all starts with the digital core.
SAP S/4HANA is the next-generation business suite that brings to reality the bold vision of live
business. It is the nucleus around which businesses can operate all processes in real time to
seamlessly integrate their enterprise.
Customer adoption at S/4HANA continues to accelerate sharply with more than 2,700 customers
across all regions and industries, more than doubling quarter-over-quarter. S/4HANA is also
catalyzing broad customer adoption of our entire innovation portfolio. Customers like MG in
France (07:30) and Swisscom have recognized the advantages of S/4HANA. Merck, a leading life
science and technology company, is turning to S/4HANA for first data access, enhanced user
experience and simplified business processes. To them, it's all about speed. We also just
announced today that a large division of Airbus has gone live with S/4HANA.
And it's not just large companies. Fitbit, a fast-growing connected health and fitness company,
selected S/4HANA and other products to position itself for future growth and streamline its IT
infrastructure. The transformation of core business applications is a significant movement. SAP is
only in the early phase of what we expect will be an unprecedented multi-year opportunity.
Ultimately, we believe that S/4HANA will succeed on a magnitude even greater than its
predecessor, R/3.
Around this core system of innovation, SAP has a cloud applications portfolio to address the
major business opportunities of the digital era. Let's start with Human Capital Management. SAP
is the only company that delivers total workforce management solutions across permanent and
contingent labor with SuccessFactors and Fieldglass. We now surpassed 1,000 Employee Central
customers. Companies choosing SuccessFactors include American Airlines, Nestlé, Alshaya Group
and Lufthansa. At American Airlines, which is the world's largest airline, I might add, we beat both
Workday and Oracle.
Moving to Customer Engagement and Commerce. SAP solutions go way beyond traditional CRM.
They help our customers manage a new kind of relationship with their digital consumers,
engaging them with personalized information across all channels. When customers hit the buy
button, no other vendor can connect to front office and the back office in real time like SAP.
Competitors that do not integrate digital marketing, buying and fulfillment across all channels are
losing relevancy in this rapidly evolving market.
For example, we won 13 major German companies against Salesforce. Customers are choosing
SAP's Customer Engagement Commerce (sic) [Customer Engagement and Commerce] solutions
including L'Oréal and Bsh Bosch/Siemens.
Digital transformation doesn't stop at the four walls of a business. In a hyperconnected world,
SAP is also leading the charge to drive digital supplier collaboration across every spend category:
materials, services, contingent labor and travel, all in the cloud. Under the leadership of Steve
Singh, the SAP Business Network group includes Ariba, Fieldglass and Concur. Each business is
the runaway leader in their respective markets.Concur, the largest of our networks, actually helps over 32 million end users, effetely (10:43)
process travel and expenses. The Philadelphia Visitors Bureau [Philadelphia Convention and
Visitors Bureau] and leading consumer brands like Johnsonville have turned to Concur.
Ariba continues to scale as the world's largest procurement network with 2 million companies
transacting over $740 billion annually across the Ariba Network. Companies like Lenovo, Jaguar
Land Rover and Goodyear are all using the Ariba Network.
Fieldglass, which is our best-in-class flexible labor solution, have provided employment
opportunities now to more than 1.9 million contingent workers in 130 countries over the past 12
months alone. Companies like CenturyLink and TiVo are turning to Fieldglass.
As ever, the key enabler of our entire innovation portfolio is at SAP HANA. HANA continues to be
the real time data platform of choice. With HANA Vora, we can now deliver a true Big Data
solution for petabyte scale scenarios.
With HANA Cloud Platform, customers can extend standard business software to meet the
needs of their specific business or to build new applications. HANA Cloud Platform is also
emerging as a platform of choice for customers for their cloud to on-premise integration.
Moving to SAP HANA Enterprise Cloud, we have the best-in-class option for customers seeking to
migrate their mission-critical processes to the cloud. The HANA Enterprise Cloud combines
secure access to our new innovation in the cloud with very fast time-to-value.
We also leverage our partners to deliver our HANA Enterprise Cloud Solutions, thereby extending
our global reach. This, by the way, is unique to SAP in the industry. Our HANA Enterprise Cloud
offering continues to grow now in triple digits and it's getting more efficient all the time.
Our analytics business continues to be robust. In Q4, we launched our Cloud for Analytics solution
built natively on the HANA Cloud Platform. This is a single integrated platform that delivers end-
to-end business intelligence planning and a Digital Boardroom for our customer's solution.
HANA is also the catalyst behind some amazing partnerships in the analytics space. For example,
SAP and Google are now teaming up to extend powerful analytics capabilities to our customers.
Daimler Trucks North America uses SAP cloud analytic solutions to identify and track potential
sales for dealers. The NFL – it is Super Bowl time – is using Big Data analytics from SAP to drive a
smarter fantasy football experience for its millions of fans worldwide.
So, as you can see, SAP truly is the cloud company powered by SAP HANA.
In closing, I just returned from Singapore and China, two of the most significant growth markets in
the world, and SAP's Completeness of Vision is resonating there like everywhere else. From the
digital core to the Internet of Things, the SAP story is one of innovation, momentum and growth.
Here in Davos, the United States Vice President, Joe Biden, invited me to share what SAP and the
American Society of Clinical Oncology are doing with HANA in the fight against cancer. Healthcare
is only the latest field where SAP is unleashing our four-plus decades of proven industry-specific
innovation. And as we look to the future, we've never been more confident in our business.
We have issued strong guidance for this year. We have raised our 2017 ambitions and we have
reiterated our 2020 goals. With this guidance, we've also retained the agility to invest in mega
opportunities that SAP is uniquely positioned to capture.And finally, with our employee engagement score now at the highest in 10 years, more than 81%,
SAP and our nearly 77,000 employees are more motivated than ever to get the job done. And as
always, I'd like to recognize their commitment and dedication to our customers. They have shown
me beyond any doubt that SAP is ready to rise to even greater heights, and I'm really, really
proud of this company.
I'm happy now to turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer, `Luka Mucic, Chief Operating & Financial Officer. Luka, over to you.
`Luka Mucic, Chief Operating & Financial Officer `
Thank you very much, Bill. And indeed, we had a tremendous year and an even stronger fourth
quarter in 2015. These results truly validated our strategies resonating very successfully across
markets and industries with our unique combination of a growing core and, at the same time,
rapidly expanding cloud business.
If you take a look at our performance versus outlook, we set ambitious targets for the full year
2015 and we over-delivered, with a record 2015 cloud and software revenue growing by 12% at
constant currencies, and clearly, beating our guidance.
We also continued our fast growth in the cloud and achieved our guidance with €2 billion in cloud
subscriptions and support revenue at constant currencies. For operating profit, we exceeded the
guidance range with €5.903 billion at constant currencies.
Briefly to our effective tax rates for the full year, in both our IFRS and non-IFRS effective tax rates,
we came in actually better than expected in our guidance. We ended the year with an IFRS
effective tax rate of 23.3% and a non-IFRS effective tax rate of 26 percentage points.
Now let me talk about some of our key financial metrics in detail. First, the cloud. Cloud
subscriptions and support revenue continued its fast growth in the fourth quarter with an increase
of 76% to €633 million. For the full year, we grew by 109% to €2.3 billion. Even without the Concur
and Fieldglass contributions, we saw strong organic growth outpacing most of our cloud
competitors.
Our new cloud bookings were up 75% to €344 million in the fourth quarter and 103% to €883
million year-over-year. It's important to note, Bill has said that, that new cloud bookings only
shows a portion of our future cloud revenue. Beyond new cloud bookings, you can clearly see the
scale of our cloud business has reached by now when looking at the combination of our cloud
subscriptions and support backlog, which increased by 45% year-over-year to €3.7 billion and
deferred cloud subscriptions and support revenue, which increased by 36% year-over-year to €1
billion.
The combination of these key metrics climbed to a record €4.6 billion. This reflects the unbilled
and billed committed future cloud subscriptions and support revenue. This already committed
business will drive strong cloud growth in 2016 and also beyond.
Now to the core business. In 2015, our solid and growing core business was obviously
exceptionally strong. This outstanding success is mainly driven by the most advanced business
suite available today, providing companies with a true digital core, SAP S/4HANA. Growth
accelerated once more with the launch of our substantially expanded November release of
S/4HANA. Adoption surged across all regions with now more than 2,700 customers, more than
doubling the number of customers in Q4 alone from the end of Q3. S/4HANA is catalyzing broad
adoption of our entire innovation portfolio.In the fourth quarter alone, we closed more than 60 deals above €5 million. Software license
grew by 10% to €4.8 billion for the full year and by 15% to €2.1 billion in the fourth quarter. Even
excluding the currency impact, we achieved the better-than-expected software revenue growth
and grew by 4% for the full year 2015.
Now to support revenue, which reached €10.1 billion and grew by 14% for the full year and by 11%
to €2.6 billion in the fourth quarter. These results were both slightly above our internal
expectations and the implied performance from our full year 2015 outlook. The high predictability
and the stability of our support revenues continues to be driven by our high support contract
renewal rate of approximately 97% and high 90% and upfront (19:33) support adoption rate from
net new customers.
So, in summary, these fantastic 2015 results led to us outpacing the market and the record cloud
and software revenue of €17.2 billion that grew by 20%. The tremendous progress we are making
with our business model transformation is also reflected in the strong growth of our software
license and cloud subscription order entry. In Q4, this was (20:00) €3.2 billion (20:02), an increase
of 25% year-over-year at constant currency.
In the full year, it was €7.2 billion or a year-over-year increase of 18% at constant currency. Equally
important, more than one-third of our software license and cloud subscription order entry was
already generated from our cloud business in 2015.
Now let me provide some more color on our regional performance. For the full year 2015, we had
strong growth across all regions. In the Americas, we grew cloud by 120%, and cloud and
software by 31%. In EMEA, our cloud growth was 83% and 12% for cloud and software. For APJ,
we grew by 99% in the cloud and 20% for cloud and software.
Now let me expand on some fourth quarter regional highlights that helped drive these strong
results for the full year 2015. The Americas region had (21:04) strong double-digit growth with
cloud and software revenue rising 27%. The U.S. had a very strong software performance. And
even with an unstable macro backdrop, Brazil rebounded with a double-digit software
performance.
Cloud revenue in the Americas region grew 89%, and new cloud bookings were very strong and
grew by double-digits. The EMEA region had an outstanding performance with an 11% increase in
cloud and software revenue. Germany and Russia both helped drive this result with strong
double-digit software growth.
Cloud subscriptions and support revenue in EMEA grew by 53%. The region also had very strong
double-digit growth in new cloud bookings. The APJ region in Q4 was back to solid double-digit
growth where cloud and software grew by 18% and had a strong double-digit software
contribution from Australia and India in particular.
Cloud subscriptions and support revenue grew by 55% and the region showed exceptional
momentum in new cloud bookings and grew by triple digits. Our share of more predictable
revenue, which comprises of fast growing cloud revenue and our steadily growing support
revenue, is a share of total revenue consequently increased by 3 percentage points year-over-
year to 60% in 2015.
Now let me come to gross margins where we are making good progress in our software and
support and cloud gross margins year-over-year. In the full year 2015, we saw a 30 basis point
increase in our software and support gross margin from 86.3% to 86.6%, mainly driven by our
strong license revenue in the fourth quarter.At the same time, our cloud gross margin improved year-over-year by 1.7 percentage points from
64.3% to 66%. This was supported by the improved profitability of our private cloud offering,
HANA Enterprise Cloud, Bill has briefly already alluded to that. In 2014, we made a lot of upfront
investments in our private cloud while recognizing only limited initial revenue. With the higher
revenue in 2015 and benefiting from the upfront investments made in the previous year, we were
able to improve our private cloud gross margin in 2015 substantially as costs stabilized.
In parallel, our new cloud bookings accelerated significantly in the fourth quarter and were very
strong all through the year. As a consequence, we once again raised our investments in cloud
delivery. For instance, we are working on harmonizing our cloud data center infrastructure across
all our data centers.
Finally, you can see the impact of our successful business shift with an increased share of cloud
subscription revenue. This revenue mix shift mainly weighs on our cloud and software gross
margin. This declined year-over-year by 70 basis points from 84.6% to 83.8% in 2015.
Our services business returned to growth in 2015 driven by our One Service initiative. The
services gross margin though was still impacted by our business transformation and several
strategic projects we invested in. With the current setup, we have already a high utilization rate
and we expect continued benefit from the efficiency gains from our One Service organization.
Our services business at the same time plays a strategic role for the accelerated adoption of our
innovative solutions portfolio, both in on-premise and in the cloud. Overall gross margin was
71.5%, a drop of 1.2 percentage points. This is mainly due to the revenue mix shift to our fast
growth cloud business and the decline in our services gross margin year-over-year. Although this
impacted our overall gross margin year-over-year, we saw improvement during the course of the
year.
Now moving to the bottom line where efficiency improvement in both our core and our cloud
business drove absolute operating profit growth. The bigger cloud revenue share combined with
a lower margin level of a fast growing cloud business put our operating margin under pressure.
This is the typical revenue mix shift effect. Thus, bottom line performance has to be measured
against operating profit where all businesses have to contribute to operating profit expansion,
thereby running each of our businesses more efficiently and effectively.
The surge in operating profit in full year 2015 reflects our business transformation's continued
success and a strong top line growth. 2015, we had a positive impact from our company-wide
transformation program in the triple-digit million euro range. On the other hand, to show our
commitment to growth, we had a net increase of more than 2,500 employees in 2015 as we
continue to invest in innovation and growth markets. Strong top line performance in the fourth
quarter also resulted in some catch-up in sales commission and bonuses. And even though we
have these effects, we generated the highest operating profit in SAP's history.
Now to EPS, which for the full year 2015, was €3.77, up 8% year-over-year. On cash flow and
liquidity, operating cash flow for the full year was €3.6 billion and free cash flow was €3 billion, up
9% year-over-year. In 2015, we improved our net liquidity position by €2.1 billion year-over-year as
we paid back debt of €3.8 billion. At the end of the year, we had a net debt of €5.6 billion.
Finally, let me come to the outlook. We're providing the following full year 2016 outlook. We
expect full year 2016 non-IFRS cloud subscriptions and support revenue to be in a range of
between €2.95 billion to €3.05 billion at constant currencies, non-IFRS cloud and software
revenue to increase by 6 percentage points to 8 percentage points at constant currencies, andnon-IFRS operating profit to be in a range of between €6.4 billion and €6.7 billion at constant
currencies.
For 2017, Bill has said it as well, we are raising our ambition due to the current exchange rate
environment and our excellent business momentum. Assuming a stable exchange rate
environment going forward, we now expect non-IFRS cloud subscriptions and support revenue to
be in a range of between €3.8 billion up to €4 billion where the upper end of this range
represents a CAGR of 32%. We also now expect non-IFRS total revenue to be in a range of
between €23 billion and €23.5 billion and non-IFRS operating profit to be in a range of €6.7 billion
to €7 billion.
So, to summarize, our tremendous 2015 results further validate our strategy of innovating across
the core, the cloud and business networks to help our customers become true digital enterprises.
We have transformed our company and made it leaner by shifting investments from non-core
activities to strategic growth areas, enabling us to capture the tremendous growth opportunities
in the market.
We have a powerful and unique combination of a fast growing cloud business and a growing
core. We are supporting customers in their journey to run simple, go digital, and stay ahead of
their competition.
We are extremely confident that we will deliver on our commitment to growth. This puts us on a
strong path for the future, reflected in the increase of our 2017 ambition that we announced
today.
Thank you very much and we will now be happy to take your questions.
`Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Yeah, thank you, Luka. Just as a reminder, as you know, Bill McDermott is joining us from Davos,
so he's able to join the first 40 minutes of this call. And I'd like to ask you to keep this in mind
when you ask your questions and now I hand it back to our operator. Emma, you can start the
Q&A session please.
Q&A
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, at this time, we will begin the question-and-answer session. Your first
question comes from the line of Phil Winslow of Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.
Q - `Philip Alan Winslow, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
Hi, thank you. And congrats, guys, for really a great end of the year. A question for Bill, actually
two questions. I wanted to focus in on S/4HANA because obviously you guys had a great
sequential increase in customer count, more than doubling your quarter-to-quarter. The question
here is do you think we've hit the inflection point, particularly with the release of 1511 in
November? I mean that seemed like a pretty significant just milestone event for you guys.
And then when you think of sort of S/4HANA going forward, I mean you talked about 300,000
customers. And, yes, doubling the number of HANA customers quarter-to-quarter is a big deal.
But if I look at that, let's call it, 2,700 versus 300,000, it feels like we're in the early days here.
Just want to get your take, and then I just have one quick follow-up to that.A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer & Member - Executive Board `
Absolutely. Thank you very much, Phil. I appreciate it. We are in the early phases of a amazing
cyclical innovation cycle on S/4HANA. If you talk to any CEO today, they want to have one version
of the truth with their data. They want to run a live system strategy, so they can access that data.
And they want to have full visibility in the way they're running their company. We call this the digital
boardroom.
To bring that to life where you're managing an end-to-end business from the supply chain, the
way you make products, the way you build people, the way you take care of your people, your
customers, your extended business network, it's only possible to do this on S/4HANA. So this is
the leadership product, the leadership platform in the entire industry, bar none, hard stop. And I
believe when you look at the pipeline and the activity we have in the company right now, we're in
the early stages but an exciting, exciting phase.
We'd like to think that the great R/3 and the amazing work that Hasso Plattner and the founders
did can actually be superseded by the innovation on S/4HANA. And that would be the biggest
compliment we can pay to the heritage of SAP, and we intend to do that.
I just got back from Singapore and China. If you look at China, they're very strategic, One Belt,
One Road. And as they think about the Internet of Things and digitizing businesses and making
smart cities and making smart factories, clearly, a product set like S/4HANA and what we've done
in the cloud will be front and center in transforming the way China thinks about growth in the
global economy. And in fact, I'm always quick to point out, this is a $12 trillion economy in China,
the second largest market in the world. And if it grows 6.5% this year, as some people might feel
that's a little down, I remind them since I'm in Switzerland, the GDP that they'll increase in China is
another Switzerland in a year. So it's still doing pretty well. And every conversation we had around
S/4HANA was really inspiring with the SOEs or even private sector enterprises, very exciting.
Q - `Philip Alan Winslow, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
Great. And then, Bill, just one more follow-up on the idea of hitting the inflection point. Obviously,
you guys are running a promotion around S/4HANA that you guys extended from the end of Q3
to the end of the Q4. One of the questions I'm getting from investors in terms of sort of what
drove that Q4 inflection point, how much of it was that 1511 release in the enterprise
management suite versus the end of that promotion? And specific to that promotion, how should
we think about just pricing going forward?
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer & Member - Executive Board `
Yeah. Thank you very much, Phil. So, first of all, a promotion isn't going to sell the central nervous
system of a company's strategy. And I think we did some reasonably good marketing to entice
people to look more carefully at S/4HANA and create a sense of urgency around our promotion.
But the heuristics of that promotion have been embodied in the pricing strategy that we took
forward. It's not a promotion, but we were very thoughtful about what motivates customers to
make the move and make the start on S/4HANA. In every case with that promotion, incidentally,
you obviously initiated a HANA license. You got 15% of the software value of the overall
transaction. And of course, you get the recurring revenues on top of that, not to mention the up-
sell and the cross-sell. And what was interesting, we now are over 1,000 Employee Central
customers with SuccessFactors, and when I started to talk to CEOs and Rob and all of our
executives out in the field and the board, it was quite interesting because why would you go withwhen you can get a better system uniquely integrated back into S/4 and HANA, and you can run
your people strategy and then extend it into a business network and do all that in real time?
So what was fascinating is the S/4HANA launch combined with some intelligent pricing and some
good dialogue with the customer, actually initiated a lot of up-sell and cross-sell. And therefore,
it's only begun, so don't worry dear shareholders. We have taken the heuristics from that pricing
strategy, embodied it into the standard template of our pricing direction for 2016, and we don't
intend to slow down.
Q - `Philip Alan Winslow, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
That's great. Thanks, Bill, and congrats.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer & Member - Executive Board `
Thank you very much, Phil.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thanks. Let's take the next question please.
Operator
Next question comes from the line of Adam Wood of Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead, sir.
Q - `Adam D. Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Hi, great. Thanks very much for taking the question, and congratulations from me as well on the
fourth quarter in the year. I also wanted to dig in a little bit on S/4HANA. You obviously have the
logistics release, as Bill mentioned, in November. I wonder if you can give us a little bit of a feel
for the roadmap as we look into 2016. What are the key milestones we should be thinking about
in terms of releases? What are the key use cases you'll be delivering? And then maybe just a little
bit longer-term, Bill, you alluded to this being bigger than R/3 in terms of scale. When we think
about the available market or market opportunity for the product, whether this comes in licenses
or subscriptions, how should we think about this? Is this made to be bigger than R/3 in absolute
value and what's the timeframe do you think for adoption of that? Thank you.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer & Member - Executive Board `
So, maybe I'll start off the answer, and then of course, we have the pleasure of having Bernd and
Rob with us as well. So Bernd can touch on the product roadmap, and Rob can give you some
insight in terms of the customer receptivity in industries and geographies and how the progress is
going with the pipeline. But let me begin by saying this question comes up a lot. And S/4HANA is
not one of those, a narrowly focused cloud solutions that you can get out in Northern California,
okay. This is like I am running a real-time enterprise here. And I want to run a best-run business. So
this is one of those longer-term initiatives when customers make that decision.
And a lot of times, they're going to want to own that asset and capitalize it over a number of
years. And we expect that is very consistent with the way R/3 played out in the market as well. So
I don't think you should anticipate a reduction in the revenue that you'll recognize from this in the
short run. But I also do think the S/4 cloud addition, as we hit the accelerator on that into 2016 and
beyond is going to create a very nice upper midmarket and large enterprise, particularly non-
customer penetration where we can really get some market share and really grow fast in that
regard in the cloud. So that's another engine of growth you haven't even seen turned on yet.So that's kind of the picture on S/4HANA, and yes, in absolute terms, if you think about an
installed base of over 300,000 customers, you have a lot of enterprises that'll make the
conversion. But don't forget, we have many net new customers on S/4HANA. More than a third of
our customers are brand new, net new and many of them are competitive replacements of
legacy competitors that you guys like to compare us to a lot.
(37:25)
A - `Bernd Leukert, Member- Executive Board and Global Managing Board `
Yeah.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer & Member - Executive Board `
A little comment (37:28)
A - `Bernd Leukert, Member- Executive Board and Global Managing Board `
Thanks, Bill, and maybe just to add a little bit to the roadmap. Of course, the Q4 shipment 2015
was an inflection point in terms of completeness of the core product. However, just remember
that we are market leader across 25 industries. And we have a tremendous portfolio, which we
will add to our S/4HANA core with industry-specific capabilities. And in addition to that, just
reflecting the headline of Davos with the Fourth Industrial Revolution.
The talk, the last couple of weeks and the last couple of days, indicate that even in traditional
areas like manufacturing, the impact of digital information will require a massive amount of
innovation opportunities in order to have a digital core that is absolutely, flexibly, reacting to these
new business models, to new processes and just the number of core innovation projects we have
already running and where we generated already. Follow-up discussion for the last couple of days
shows that I do not see an end of a story of innovation with the digital core. It is rather the
beginning of an amazing journey.
Q - `Adam D. Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. And then let's move to the next question please?
Operator
Next question comes from the line of Walter Pritchard of Citigroup. Please go ahead, sir.
Q - `Walter H. Pritchard, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker) `
Hi, thanks. A question for Luka, just on the fiscal 2017 ambition, just in terms of the change in
composition versus where you were a year ago, I think recurring revenue down a bit implying
license mix better. And your implied margins are a bit lower. And I guess we're used to seeing
that when the license business is actually better, then margins are stronger. And I'm just
wondering if you could help talk us through the mix shift drivers there and the implications on the
operating profit margin.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Operating & Financial Officer `Yeah. So, first of all, you're absolutely right that we have obviously seen in 2015 a strong
performance in our classical core business and we are confident overall for our core business.
Nevertheless, we have modeled our guidance in a way that we feel very confident and safe, so
to say, in the sense of a prudent guidance of both directions. I think in terms of our revenue mix,
clearly, we will see that cloud revenues are continuing to increase strongly. We have a CAGR
ambition, as you say, at the high end, which is exceeding 30%. And we continue to believe that
it's absolutely feasible especially given the strong deferred and backlog that we have built over
time.
What that does is of course it makes margin expansion difficult, while we continue to work on the
efficiency of all of our business models in line with their individual capabilities. When you come to
the correlation between the top line and our operating profit ambition, let's be clear. SAP I think is
one of the very few, if not the only software technology companies at the moment there is to
give a confident and precise outlook for anything that is longer than just this business year.
We're doing this with a very strong growth momentum. And we do it with continued commitment
to return value to our shareholders by increasing our operating profit. What we need to do
nevertheless is cater for the needed flexibility and capability to invest in order to make sure that
the tremendous growth that we have been seeing in the cloud is actually delivered to, and
hopefully, exceeding customer expectations.
That means we need to build out the cloud infrastructure capabilities in order to service these
customers as they're now onboarded. It means that we need to make sure that our ongoing
operations are precise and are complete. And it means as well that we will continue to invest in
strong innovation in order to further build out our competitive strengths. And we have a lot of
solution areas where we clearly see a strategic opportunity to expand our market share and so
we are focusing on that as well.
In the short-term, this means that while we grow in operating profit, margin expansion is not really
the primary focus, but of course, increasing the efficiency in the different business models, in the
core, in the private cloud, in the public cloud, and in networks will continue to be a priority as we
have always said it.
What you can also see from our guidance and our midterm ambition is that we believe that we
will reach an inflection point after 2017 when cloud finally overtakes the size of our classical
software license business. At that point in time, we strongly believe that cloud will be an
exponential contributor to our operating profit. That's also why you see they're in a much higher
CAGR in terms of the operating profit.
So, in short, it's really a time of reaping the growth opportunities in both the cloud and in the
core. For that, we will make the right investments and we will make the right strategic bets also in
new fields, in which we can play because we have the corresponding technology, and where we
can open up completely new market opportunities. And through that, we will return long-term
greater operating profits that we could do otherwise. That's kind of the strategy and what we
have in mind. But we will always do that in a way that we can with absolute confidence, deliver on
the targets that we have set. That you can be assured of.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's take the next question please.
OperatorNext question comes from the line of Stacy Pollard of JPMorgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `Stacy E. Pollard, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
Hi, thank you. Just a cash flow question actually. Can you explain – a small thing, can you explain
the large decrease in trade receivables? And then for total free cash flow, what kind of number
should we be looking for into 2016 and is there anything exceptional we should consider as we
model that year?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Operating & Financial Officer `
Yeah, absolutely. So, first of all for 2016, I think what you can expect in terms of free cash flow is
that one of the biggest contributors against free cash flow will be gone in 2016 and that's
basically the monetary outflow that we had from our restructuring program that was going on. We
had to pay a lot of severances in 2015, as you will have seen and noted from our non-IFRS
adjustments guidance, we expect that in 2016, as we had announced before, there will be no
company-wide restructuring effort. Therefore, our restructuring obligations will be less than a
tenth at maximum of what we saw in 2015. And that, of course, will result in, let's say, a better
free cash flow position.
I also expect that on the other non-IFRS adjustments and share-based payments, you have seen
the guidance. It is in the slightly lower range than what we had seen in 2015. There might be a
small effect there. But the big effect will be on restructuring. So I expect that cash flow in 2016 will
trend upwards with the overall positive uptake of our business.
In terms of the trade receivables, there is actually not really one particular thing that you can point
to. Of course, we had the normal movement on sales allowances and bad debt, which slightly
trended up. But other than that, it's a normal seasonal movement that we have, that towards the
end of the year, you actually collect a lot especially in emerging markets in terms of maintenance,
invoices and so on, which has been overdue for some time. And that's what you typically see
happening. And so there is not a specific effect at this point too (46:06).
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's move to the next question please.
Operator
Next question comes from the line of `Gerardus Vos, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. of Barclays. Please go ahead, sir.
Q - `Gerardus Vos, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Hi, good afternoon. Thanks for taking my questions. Just firstly on the license, now given the kind
of strong uptake and momentum you've seen there, is there a reason to believe that you can't
see some kind of many revival of licenses with a bit of growth for the coming years? It looks that
the implied level of guidance on the licenses is around flat, so that's 5% better than the soft
guidance you gave a year or so ago. So I'm interested in your thoughts there.
And then secondly, despite this better outlook for the core and for the licenses. The margin for
2017 is a reduction on 2016. So I was wondering if you could help me a little bit about the
investments you plan two years out. Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `Maybe, Rob, you want to start on the assumptions for the license performance?
A - `Rob Enslin, President-Global Customer Operations `
Yes, sure. So on the license performance, I think the way we look at the core business is that
we're going to see an attractive core business but we'll also going to take some measures in the
cloud and a movement to the cloud into effect. And so, I think you'd see a reasonable guidance
with strong opportunity in S/4 and a continued acceleration of the cloud business that we saw this
year.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
And then, the second question on the investments and the implied margin for 2017.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Operating & Financial Officer `
Yeah, investments, a couple of things. I mentioned already continued investments in cloud
infrastructure that we will make. We want to make sure that we have a converged cloud
infrastructure across all of our data centers, which will be increasing the efficiency of our cloud
operations after we have completed that work. So, it's definitely investment into a more
profitable and better margin future.
Secondly, we are in process of migrating our cloud solutions away from third-party databases to
SAP's HANA platform. This is a work that will take a little while, up to two years. But then, at the
end of the day, of course we'll also increase our efficiency in operations.
We have our strategic priorities set. They are clear, S/4HANA will see a lot of investment in the
future to complete the road map that Bernd has talked about before. We will invest in HCM. We
will invest in Customer Engagement and Commerce solutions. We will invest in the further
buildout of our HANA Cloud Platform, so the usual suspects that you would assume.
I think we did a good job over the past years to actually scale the effectiveness of our sales
operations. The collaboration between the Business Network Group and our GCO organization is
working very well.
You might have taken away from our Q4 results in 2015 a significant increase in sales and
marketing expenses, but that was really due to a catch-up in bonuses as I've said before. There's
a lot of AEs, due to the stellar Q4 performance, hit their accelerators. If you back that out, actually
we have seen a very good constant currency progression of sales and marketing expenses in line
with the revenues. We will continue to invest in the further buildout of our sales force, that's for
sure. But we really want to focus on innovation, creating the right solutions for the future, as well
as making sure that we succeed in the cloud. That's the primary investment areas that we have.
Q - `Gerardus Vos, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's move to the next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Briest of UBS. Please go ahead.Q - `Michael J. Briest, Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker) `
Great. Thanks. I guess sort of continuing on that theme, when you gave your 2020 vision a year
ago, it sort of implied 1% to 5% annual decline in licenses. Obviously, 2015 was better than that.
The 2016 guidance, as Gerardus said, probably have growth on licenses at the high end.
I'm just wondering, are you half-surprised by the appetite for on-premise? Obviously, S/4 is
helping but it does imply, if we look out to 2020, that 2018, 2019, 2020 have quite a sharp decline
in licenses. Is that the way we should be thinking about things?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Operating & Financial Officer `
Yeah, I think if you think about the guidance mechanics, that's obviously the conclusion to which
you would come mathematically. Now, when you set a guidance, you don't set it in line with
hopes, but you set it in line with things that you really feel very confident about.
I have to say, we believed when we launched S/4HANA that it could be a reinvigorator of growth
in the core. And we have seen that the interest is tremendous. It was in line or even exceeding
our hopes, but of course it was not something that we could guarantee. I think for 2016 and 2017,
we have now a better feeling about that. We clearly see that we have started a product cycle that
is meeting a lot of interest in the market.
On the other hand, we have at the moment uncertainties in the macro environment. We clearly
have areas of our portfolio that continue to migrate quickly towards the cloud, and this would
continue to be the case. And we actually actively driving this like HR, like Customer Engagement
and Commerce, like obviously our Business Network solutions and other areas. So I think it makes
sense to be prudent, especially when you're thinking about such a long timeframe, out until 2020.
And then, let's see.
But we're definitely confident about S/4HANA. That's a story that I think is coming across loud and
clear. And therefore also, the fact that even on the 2020 targets, there is really a degree of
certainty that has rather increased through the good results in 2015, then calling it into question.
Q - `Michael J. Briest, Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker) `
Thank you. And could I just follow up on the cloud gross margin? You've explained pretty well on
Q4, I think. Just looking at this year, obviously there are the investments we made, but we were
seeing sequential improvement through the first three quarters last year. How would you expect
margins to develop in the cloud this year? Thanks.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Operating & Financial Officer `
Yeah, definitely, I think it's a good question. I think the investments that we are making, as I said,
they are necessary because we had strong growth in bookings. This should definitely level out.
So, I do not expect a gross margin erosion in 2016. I think you should plan for stability or a slight
increase. I said after Q3 that you cannot expect to have such a big jump in gross margins as we
have seen it in Q3 now to continue. But we are fully committed to our 80% gross margin long-
term targets for the network, as well as for public cloud, and the 40% for the private cloud.
That's the new good news that you can also expect for 2016. We're very confident that HANA
Enterprise Cloud will turn to positive gross margins in 2016 as we have predicted before. And
we'll improve steadily afterwards, which will, of course, also help despite the fact that the scale ofthe business is increasing. So, I think stability to a slight increase in gross margins is what you can
expect.
Q - `Michael J. Briest, Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker) `
Thanks, Luka.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thanks very much. Now, we have time for two more questions.
Operator
Next question comes from the line of `Knut Woller, Analyst, Baader Bank AG (Broker) of Baader Bank. Please go ahead, sir.
Q - `Knut Woller, Analyst, Baader Bank AG (Broker) `
Yeah, thank you. Just getting back on S/4HANA and with S/4HANA Enterprise Management,
maybe a question for Bernd. In terms of functionality with S/4HANA Enterprise Management, how
would you describe in terms of functionality if we label everything as 100%? Now, after the
release of S/4HANA Enterprise Management and then with the new on-prem release expected
to be released in Q4 this year, where should we be then at the end of this year with the new on-
premise release for S/4HANA?
Then, in terms of live customers on S/4HANA, can you just provide us an update here where we
were at the end of the year? Thanks.
A - `Bernd Leukert, Member- Executive Board and Global Managing Board `
Yes, happy to do so. Maybe we start with the live customer first, that's the easier question. We
have the ambitious goal of reaching close to 100 customers, and we reached that goal and we
are pretty happy about that. A product which was just launched in February, now having
passed100 live customers is a testimonial that it's not just a success in sales; it's a testimonial that
the product is robust, it's mature. And as well, we are pretty happy as this is not in a dedicated
segment; it's distributed across the whole cloud, across almost every industry. And this shows
viability and maturity there.
And this is then basically a good introduction to your second question; where are we in terms of
percentage of completion and you ask about 100%. Just to make it clear, there is a hell a lot of
functionality in our previous product in ERP, which in the meantime is outdated or which we saw
that we have not gotten the adoption which we expected a decade ago when we developed it.
And we do not have the ambition. And therefore, it's not an official successorto offer each
feature and function. Rather, what I said before, we want to extend the digital core and make it
ready for the requirements of the future, which are in many cases different than what we had in
the past. So, do not consider S/4HANA as just a technical modernization of something which we
developed two decades ago. And Bill mentioned before Cloud for Analytics, mentioned the
Digital Boardroom, so this is just one flavor where operational analytics and insights in the
business will be incorporated in the product.
Another flavor is that we want to transfer a system of record into a real decision-making system
where many decisions are automated as applications become more and more smart. Do not
forget that we do not just have a traditional outdated database underneath S/4; we have a
platform that has machine learning algorithms that have a hell a lot of libraries which enable ourapplications to be significantly smarter. And therefore, there is not a feature-by-feature
comparison and I can't give you a percentage.
But what I can promise you is that especially in industries, what I said before, we have a road map
which we have published as well on our website. But as well here, there are features which we will
definitely deliver. And there are other features which even nobody is asking for these days. So
hopefully, this gives a little bit more clarity.
But as a summary, S/4 will be a significantly smarter product, much more decision support,
reflecting the automation capabilities more on software markets (58:06). And I have not talked
about, at the moment about speech and voice recognition and capabilities, which we, of course,
will incorporate into the product.
Q - `Knut Woller, Analyst, Baader Bank AG (Broker) `
Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you very much. We have time for one final question, please.
Operator
Final question comes from the line of John King of Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please go
ahead, sir.
Q - `John P. King, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great. Thanks for taking the question. I just thought I'd follow up on the balance sheet side of
things. So, can you just update your comments around any potential M&A targets that you might
see out there of significant scale or whether you're sticking with primarily the organic strategy
here? And I guess to kind of follow up to that is, if that's the case, obviously to some extent it's
the board's decision around the dividend, but what would be the management's view in terms of
potentially raising the payout ratio in order to up the shareholder returns a little bit given the
strong cash flow? Thanks.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Operating & Financial Officer `
Yeah, thank you very much for that question. So, first of all, on M&A our strategy is really
unchanged. I mean, we have stated that previously we don't foresee a need nor a suitable target
for a bigger acquisition for the foreseeable future. Definitely in the next two years, in 2016 and
2017, our focus will be, as we have said before, on the repayment of debt. We have already
progressed nicely in 2015. Now, we aim in 2016 and 2017 to pay back round about €1.6 billion each
in bonds, but also in the full repayment of the remaining Concur finance loan that we have still
outstanding.
And then, of course, we will focus on organic innovation. And, yes, we will also focus on making
sure that shareholder returns provided – SAP has a long history to pay a dividend, that has an
established dividend policy which formally states that more than 35% of net profit should be paid
out to shareholders. Now, we also know that in the last year, in 2015, so the 2014 dividend, was
higher than that. It was at 40% of net profits. And indeed, you say it correctly that the right
governance body to decide on the dividend proportion to the shareholders is our Supervisory
Board Meeting, which will take place in March and we'll finally resolve this.But obviously, we had a great result in 2015. We outperformed virtually all of our guidance
parameters, including the bottom line on non-IFRS side. Yes, of course, in IFRS results, this looks a
little bit differently. But you can certainly be sure that we will propose something which also
rewards the shareholders appropriately. That's about the maximum what I can state at this point,
but don't worry.
Q - `John P. King, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
That's all I have, thank you.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Operating & Financial Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. This concludes our Fourth Quarter 2015 Financial Analyst Call. I will say thank
you very much for joining, and we look forward to seeing you in New York on the 4th of February
at our Capital Markets Day. Thank you very much and goodbye.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Operating & Financial Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the SAP Third (sic) [Fourth] Quarter Earnings Call for today.
Thank you for joining and goodbye.