Q4 2016 Earnings Call

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. My name is Emma, your Chorus Call operator.
Welcome and thank you for joining the SAP fourth quarter and full-year results 2016 conference
call.
Throughout today's recorded presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. The
presentation will be followed by a question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.
`Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Yeah, thank you. Good morning or good afternoon. This is `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations, Head of Investor
Relations. Thank you, all, for joining us to discuss our results for the fourth quarter and full-year
2016.
I'm joined by our CEO, Bill McDermott; and `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer, CFO, who will both make opening
remarks on the call today. Also joining us for Q&A are board members, `Rob Enslin, President-Global Customer Operations and Executive Board Member, who runs
Global Customer Operations; `Bernd Leukert, Member of the Executive Board, Head-Products & Innovation, who leads Product & Innovation; and `Steve Singh, President, Business Networks and Applications,
Head of SAP, Business Networks and Applications.
Before we get started, as usual, I would like to say a few words about forward-looking
statements and our use of non-IFRS financial measures. Any statements made during this call that
are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in the U.S. Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast,
intend, may, plan, project, predict, should, outlook and will, and similar expressions as they relate
to SAP are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.SAP undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. All
forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual
results to differ materially from expectations. The factors that could affect SAP's future financial
results are discussed more fully in SAP's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
including SAP's Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2015 filed with the SEC on March 29, 2016.
Participants of this call are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking
statements, which speak only as of their dates.
On our Investor Relations website, you can find our earnings press release, also known as the
quarterly statement, and financial summary slide deck which are intended to supplement our
prepared remarks today and include a reconciliation from our non-IFRS numbers to IFRS numbers.
Unless otherwise noted, all financial numbers referred to on this conference call are non-IFRS and
growth rates are non-IFRS at constant currency. The non-IFRS financial measures we provide
should not be considered as a substitute for or superior to the measures of financial
performance prepared in accordance with IFRS.
And finally, I'd like to note that we would like to welcome you back to our Annual Capital Markets
Day again in New York City on February 9, 2017. We will give you more detail about the innovation
growth drivers behind our 2020 ambitions.
And, with that, I hand the call over to our CEO, Bill McDermott.
`William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Stefan. And hello, everyone. Thank you very much for joining us today.
Looking back, in 2010, we set a clear strategy to increase our lead in the business software
industry. We fundamentally reinvented the database with SAP HANA, which has now become the
de facto in-memory platform for the enterprise. We created the future of ERP with S/4HANA, a
generational upgrade cycle that has only just begun. We conducted the smartest M&A in the
industry, adding best-in-class cloud companies to the SAP portfolio and extracted enormous
value from those assets.
In 2016, we once again validated the SAP strategy by reaching all of our raised guidance metrics.
We again delivered strong software sales, fast cloud growth and operating income expansion.
Cloud revenue powered to 31% growth and this is on par or better than best-of-breed
standalone cloud companies. Cloud and software grew 8%, significantly outpacing our main
competitor.
IFRS operating profit was up 20% while non-IFRS operating profit expanded to a record €6.6
billion. New cloud bookings surged nearly 40% in Q4 and 31% in the full year. It's now a €3 billion
cloud business growing more than 30% that we have here at SAP. Our cloud backlog soared 47%
to €5.4 billion, greatly enhancing the predictability of our future cloud revenue.
The facts clearly demonstrate that our strategy has delivered for the shareholders of SAP. Since
2009, we have more than doubled the revenue, operating income and the market cap of SAP.
We're proud to be the most valuable DAX company and we're only getting started. We're
growing in every region of the world with a pipeline that has never been stronger. We're focused
on profitable revenue growth, laser-focused.
As part of our 2020 profit acceleration, SAP plans to achieve world-class margins such as 80%
Software as a Service, 40% Infrastructure as a Service, and 80% in our business networks group.No other company can report growing software sales, SaaS growth cloud businesses and
expanding operating income. The SAP trifecta still stands alone today.
This is proof positive that SAP's bold innovation agenda is coming through for our customers. And
in the end, after all, the customer is the only boss. These strong business results lead us now to
confidently raise our 2020 ambition. We are now targeting more than 2.6x growth in the cloud
revenue to reach €8 billion to €8.5 billion in the cloud and €28 billion to €29 billion total revenue in
2020.
On February 9, as Stefan said, we'll focus on SAP's bright future during our Annual Capital
Markets Event at the New York Stock Exchange. Please, do join us. We'd love to have you.
When you think about SAP's solutions, think about how our digital boardroom changes the game
for business leaders. In one beautiful, intuitive user experience, a CEO can bring together live
data from every corner of her business, from finance and logistics, to customer and workforce
engagement. This is the ultimate example of SAP's fully integrated portfolio.
S/4HANA delivers the modern digital core system to connect the supply chain to the demand
chain. And as a result, Apple has once again extended their long-term partnership with SAP to
further leverage SAP innovations such as HANA and S/4HANA. Very exciting, Apple. Thank you.
With the S/4HANA platform, Nike will run a live business and plans to transform how they bring
merchandise to market worldwide. Coca-Cola, ThyssenKrupp AG and Ameco Beijing selected
S/4HANA in the fourth quarter. In 2017, we'll continue the acceleration of S/4HANA in every single
deployment model, public cloud, private cloud, or a customer's own data center.
Please keep in mind 5,400 S/4HANA customers means more than 85% of our install base are in
the pipeline still to be migrated, not to mention the thousands and thousands of customers
around the world that will switch from their current provider. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a
once-in-a-generation business opportunity, and we intend to seize it.
SAP Hybris and our customer engagement solutions deliver a one-to-one customer relationship in
any channel on any device. We can give our customers a single view of their consumer from social
to retail to e-commerce to deliver a personalized experience to each individual at scale. This is
mass customization at its best. SAP customer engagement solutions once again achieved strong
double-digit bookings and cloud revenue growth. Hitachi and Thermo Fisher were among the
many brands that selected SAP Hybris.
Only SAP SuccessFactors and SAP Fieldglass can engage the total workforce. We now have nearly
1,600 Employee Central customers. Mercedes-AMG selected SAP's workforce management
solutions in the fourth quarter. Another Workday replacement, Mohawk Industries is now live, and
our solutions are localized in 81 countries, in 42 languages which is why top-industry analysts
named SAP SuccessFactors the leader for global companies.
Demand for Fieldglass' best-in-class flexible labor solutions is also rapidly increasing. Think about
this. In the past 12 months, over 3 million workers were placed in 135 countries using SAP
Fieldglass. SAP business network companies like Ariba and Concur are redefining how businesses
are managing spend. Ariba continues to scale as the world's largest procurement network with
2.5 million companies transacting nearly $1 trillion annually. Leading global companies like Molson
Coors Brewing Company selected Ariba in the fourth quarter. Concur helps more than 45 million
end-users effortlessly process travel and expenses daily. Big brands like L'Oréal recently chose
Concur.To predict and simulate new business models on the fly, SAP is already the leader in the Internet
of Things. By connecting the core of the business to where data is actually created, SAP enables
insight and action from millions of connected devices.
Our IoT solutions are now branded SAP Leonardo, and they include everything from connected
products to connected people. We will continue to expand our portfolio with smart tuck-in
acquisitions like Fedem and PLAT.ONE to complement our outstanding development team.
The completeness of SAP's vision is broad. For example, SAP developers are on the cutting-edge
of machine learning capabilities. From invoice matching to predictive recruiting to intelligent sales
forecasting, SAP Machine Learning applications will drive significant value for our customers.
We're also using machine learning to root out bias in the hiring process and to build a more
inclusive workforce. With all of this potential, we recently unveiled a new identity for machine
learning as well. This is now called SAP Clea.
On our flagship SAP Cloud Platform, customers can extend their SAP applications like S/4HANA
and build new applications. Our HANA enterprise cloud gives customers the ability to run their
entire company in a secure private cloud. With our API hub, we now enable a more open SAP
platform to incubate new innovations.
We're scaling the HANA world with smart tuck-ins like Altiscale to bring Hadoop and Spark big
data together with SAP HANA Vora. Only SAP can unify a customer's business transactions
together with predictive analytics on a single platform. Game change. From IoT to blockchain and
beyond, there is simply no stopping SAP.
So in summary, I'd like to close up by saying, we've never been more confident about our future
than we are right now. We're innovating in the cloud, and we're alone in leading the business
networks. We're delivering a beautiful Fiori user experience to simplify the steps in the business
process and make users happy. Every business we're in is a customer-driven, fast-growth and
high-margin business.
We're one of the top places to work in the world and the first global IT company to receive EDGE
Certification for gender equality. We're the most sustainable software company in the Dow Jones
Sustainability Index. Our employee engagement scores have never ever been higher than they
are right now. Our global brand value has also never been higher.
From manufacturing to healthcare, our 84,000 colleagues are ever inspired by our vision to help
the world run better and improve people's lives. Ladies and gentlemen, with our accelerated
2020 ambition, SAP is firmly committed to remaining the growth story of the business software
industry.
Now, I am very happy to turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer, `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer. Luka, over to
you.
`Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you very much, Bill, and welcome from my side as well. Now, looking at our strong results,
I'm really proud to say that we delivered as we promised we would. In fact, we met all guidance
metrics for the full-year 2016 as refined in October.
SAP once again showed impressive resilience in uncertain times. For example, even in light of
Brexit, the UK had excellent results. China performed tremendously amidst continued
macroeconomic uncertainty, and we overcame political volatility in Mexico with strong results.I'm also happy to announce that our cash flow increased significantly by €1 billion in 2016 based on
a stellar Q4 with more than 150% growth, even outpacing a strong Q3. At the same time, we are
successfully progressing towards a more predictable business model based on a very strong
cloud and growing core business. Our share of more predictable revenue is now 61% for the full
year, up 2 percentage points. This gives us more stability in a volatile fast-moving market.
So let's take a look at the top-line performance and start with our cloud business, where we have
grown by more than 30% for four years in a row now. This continued fast growth is fueled by our
future committed cloud revenue or new cloud bookings. We grew by 31% in fiscal year 2016. This
resulted in €3.01 billion in cloud revenue at constant currency, achieving our refined guidance
range of €3 billion to €3.05 billion. With this continued strong growth in cloud, we have now
increased its share of total revenue by another 3 percentage points in 2016 to 14%.
For the full year, our new cloud bookings were also strong with growth of 31% to €1.15 billion. And
as expected, in Q4, we saw an acceleration of new cloud bookings to 40%. If we look at the full
scale of our cloud business, we also need to look at our cloud backlog, which climbed by 47% to
€5.4 billion. This reflects the unbilled committed future of cloud subscriptions and support
revenue that will drive strong cloud growth in 2017 and beyond.
Thinking about our future growth, it is equally important to highlight the stability of our industry-
leading core business and its continued growth. This is unprecedented in our industry as reflected
by the 4% increase of our software and support revenue in 2016, driven by another year of
software license growth, and let's not forget on the back of a very strong 2015, as well as
continued very high support renewal rates.
So to summarize, the strong performance in our cloud and core business resulted in growth of
8% in cloud and software revenue for the full year. This was above the midpoint of our raised
guidance by continuing to substantially outpace the market.
Let me come to the fourth quarter regional results now, starting with EMEA. We had a very strong
performance in EMEA, where we saw an increase in cloud and software revenue of 10%. Cloud
subscriptions and support revenue grew 37%. In EMEA, we had double-digit software revenue
growth in Germany and the UK. In the Americas region, we grew cloud and software revenue by
2%, and cloud subscriptions and support revenue by 24%. In Latin America, SAP had strong
double-digit software revenue growth in Mexico. And finally, in the APJ region, cloud and software
revenue was up 5%, with cloud subscriptions and support revenue growing by 48%. In APJ, we
had double-digit software revenue growth in our key markets in China, India, as well as Japan.
Now, let me come to the bottom-line. And here, before talking about operating profit, I would like
to provide some more details about the gross margin development for the quarter on a
reported basis. Our overall gross margin was 75.6% and flat year-over-year, despite a significant
negative mix shift effect within the cloud margin. For the fourth quarter, we saw an increase in the
cloud margin of 10 basis points year-over-year, resulting in a cloud margin of 63.1%. We achieved
this increase despite a significant shift in revenue mix, as I said. If you look into more detail, you
can see that our business network cloud segment margin had an impressive expansion of 3
percentage points year-over-year to 75.3%.
The Applications, Technology, and Services or ATS cloud segment margin in turn declined by 150
basis points to 49.2% year-over-year. As expected, the accelerated growth and consequently
higher share of our private cloud business led to this decline in the ATS segment, while its margin
broke even for the second quarter in a row. If we would have had the same revenue sharebetween businesses that we had last year, the overall cloud gross margin would have increased
even further by approximately 2.8 percentage points for the full year.
Finally, remember that we continue to invest heavily in our entire cloud operations to provide
massive benefits for customers. Our cloud and software gross margin was 84.8%, flat year-over-
year. While we continue to see a higher share of cloud business, the strength of our software and
support business fully compensated the changed revenue mix.
In the fourth quarter, our services gross margin was down by 3.9 percentage points year-over-
year to 20.3% but was almost flat quarter-over-quarter. We have made good progress in 2016
particularly in the last nine months. Coming off a sharp decline in the first quarter, we have
improved by 6.4 percentage points since then. This development should be also seen in light of
significant investments such as our core innovation projects with strategic industry customers to
focus more and more in customer outcomes, which results in higher adoption and renewals. We
are on track with our operational performance in the services business as underlying, just growing
3% for the full-year 2016.
Now, let me come to our operating profit development. We saw continued operating profit
expansion in the fourth quarter despite our continued investments in innovation and high-growth
areas. While these investments are even more important for our future growth, we are already
seeing them pay off now. We again had a strong quarter in terms of operating profit performance
which grew by 2%. When looking at our group operating margin, it's clear that the revenue mix
shift effect as well as the decrease in the services margin weighs on our group profitability in the
near term. This resulted in a decrease of 90 basis points to 35% in Q4.
For the full year, we significantly outpaced our main competitor not only in cloud and software
revenue growth but also in terms of the bottom-line expansion. Our operating profit was €6.6
billion or the midpoint of our raised guidance range, representing a growth rate of 4%. We
achieved this result even though we saw a significant growth in the previous year and we
continue to make investments for our transformation during the course of 2016. For example, we
hired almost 7,200 FTEs which are primarily highly-educated young talents in our fast-growth
areas and locations.
The IFRS tax rate in the fourth quarter was 22.5% and almost stable compared to the prior-year
period, while the non-IFRS tax rate in the fourth quarter was 23.7%, down from 25.1% in the prior-
year period. For the full year, our tax rate increased but to a much lower extent than expected.
Hence, we came in below the lower end of the guidance range that was updated in Q2.
As a consequence, IFRS earnings per share increased by 18% to €1.26 per share for the quarter
and increased by the same amount for the full year to €3.03 per share. Non-IFRS earnings per
share increased by 9% to €1.52 per share for the quarter and increased by 3% to €3.89 per share
for the full year.
Now, let's come to a particularly bright spot, our cash flow and liquidity development. In the fourth
quarter, we reported a record €1 billion in operating cash flow, increasing by triple digits year-
over-year. This led to strong operating cash flow for the year growing by 27% to €4.6 billion. This
result was primarily due to our strong top-line performance with an increase in total revenue of
7% and higher profitability, as well as the absence of restructuring-related cash outflows.
At the end of the year, we improved our net liquidity by almost €2.5 billion compared to the end
of 2015, which is an improvement of 44%. At the end of the year, we had a net debt of €3.2
billion. Looking to 2017, we intend to pay back approximately €1.4 billion of further financial debt.Our A rating continues to be underpinned by the major rating agencies such as Standard & Poor's
with a positive outlook.
And with outlook, I can move on to our own outlook. We are providing the following outlook for
2017, which replaces our previous 2017 ambition. Based on our continued strong momentum in
our cloud business, we expect full-year 2017 non-IFRS cloud revenue to be in the range of €3.8
billion to €4 billion at constant currencies, in line with our previous 2017 ambition. We expect full-
year 2017 non-IFRS cloud and software revenue to increase by 6% to 8% at constant currencies.
We expect full-year 2017 non-IFRS total revenue in the range of between €23.2 billion to €23.6
billion at constant currencies. This is above our previous 2017 ambition. And finally, we expect full-
year 2017 non-IFRS operating profit to be in the range of between €6.8 billion to €7 billion at
constant currencies. This is also above our previous 2017 ambition.
Looking beyond 2017, we have increased our 2020 ambition to reflect our consistent, fast growth
in the cloud, solid software momentum and operating profit expansion as well as the exchange
rate development. I am looking forward to discussing the key drivers behind the long-term
growth aspirations further at our Capital Markets Day in New York.
Finally, as SAP's board sponsor for sustainability, I want to also emphasize our longstanding
commitment to address the biggest economic, environmental and societal issues around the
world. We believe we fulfill this by using our vision as a guiding principle for everything we do. Our
holistic approach is fundamental to achieving our goals and realizing our vision which is reflected
in our integrated report. We will publish this at the end of February, which is a month earlier than
in previous years. The intensive use of SAP software supports us in completing and issuing this
comprehensive detail and as you will find once again very innovative report less than two months
after year-end.
Our employees and the innovations they create are the heart and soul of our company. We are
proud to report that the employee engagement index at SAP is at an all-time high. We were able
to increase this already high number as our transformation is paying off. We have expanded our
learning culture. We are hiring the right people. We have the right vision.
Turning to the environment, we were able to further decrease carbon emissions despite growing
our cloud business strongly in part because of our green cloud policy but also because of
operational innovations such as our ambitious goals around electric cars. And yes, I drive one, too.
We are also progressing nicely in the area of diversity. We now have 24.5% of women in
management, an improvement of approximately 1 percentage point year-on-year and very close
now to our target of 25% by 2017.
So to close, we released strong fourth quarter and full-year results today, showing continued
momentum and strong execution. Even though we made strategic investments during the course
of 2016, we managed to expand our profit again fully in line with our stated 2016 guidance and
mid-term ambitions. Paired with our robust pipeline, this positions us for yet another year of
profitable growth in 2017 and allows us to confidently raise our high-level 2020 ambition. I'm
looking forward to another excellent 2017 and beyond as we continue to help the world run
better and improve people's lives.
Thank you. And we will now be happy to take your questions.
`Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Luca. I'll hand it back to the operator. Please start the Q&A session now.Q&A
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, at this time, we will begin the question-and-answer session. The first
question comes from the line of Adam Wood of Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `Adam D. Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Hi. Good afternoon, Bill, Luka, thanks very much for taking the question. A couple, if I could. Just,
first of all, on the operating profit outlook and the margin outlook. Clearly, the company is
investing for growth at the moment and that's paying off on the top-line. I wonder if you could
help us whether there were any kind of one-off spending in Q4 that pushed the expenses up.
And as we look into 2018, what are the investments that are going into 2017 in terms of the HANA
move on the cloud in terms of how you expect the move to subscription payments to happen
that depresses 2017 but then turns around in 2018 that give you the confidence that we see the
operating leverage coming through in the later part of the guidance?
And then, maybe just very quickly on the technology side, I think, Bill, this is the first time you've
talked in a little bit more detail about machine learning. We've seen other companies focus on
the vertical side as well as horizontal. Could you give us a little bit of a feel of what's going on
with SAP and how much of that can be organic versus M&A-driven? Thank you.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Should I start maybe with the questions on the investment side? So I wouldn't say that there
were any, let's say, truly extraordinary new types of investments that we made in Q4, but we
continue to invest in the key areas in which we said that we would focus on. So clearly, also in Q4,
we continue to invest in the build-out of our convert cloud infrastructure into our program to
migrate our required cloud assets on towards our HANA in-memory database. We continue to
invest in data center consolidation. This will continue also in 2017. But as we always have said, 2017
is then the year where these, let's say, extraordinary investments in our cloud delivery business
will come to an end. And then, as of 2018, we expect to see the leverage from these efficiency-
based investments in a much higher progression of the cloud gross margins and consequently
also the operating income contribution of our cloud business.
In terms of the head count growth, we continued to invest also in Q4. However, from a profile
perspective, slightly different. We hired a bit over 1,700 FTEs in Q4. In Q3, we had a very strong
focus in hiring on the sales and marketing side, because you want to bring these people on
board and train them, so that they can get fully productive as quickly as possible in the new year.
Therefore, in Q4, while we still did some additional hiring in sales and marketing, this was not the
leading category. Most of the hiring that we did in Q4 was in the R&D and in the cloud delivery
operations where, obviously, you are trying to build up a more even basis of your head count
distribution as you progress through the year.
In terms of the profile of investments in total, you're absolutely correct. 2017 will be another year
of investment, whereas in the years 2018 and going forward, we expect that most of the cost
ratios, except for sales and marketing where we will continue to invest in line with our growth
potentials will come down as a relative share of revenues, so we expect that then our clouddelivery operations will be a more, let's say, a steady progression with growing leverage from the
top-line in the cloud. And we also believe that in R&D, after heavy investments into the build-out
of S/4 and our innovation categories, the R&D ratio will start to slightly decline. And hence, we
expect to see a bigger CAGR in operating income in the years 2018 and moving forward so far
from my side on the investment operating income side.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Luka. And, Adam, I'll just touch on the machine learning. First of all, we're working on
largely horizontal-focused applications, core applications, and we're making our own. So think of it
as focused on the digital core and making the line of business smarter. So S/4HANA, our cloud
and network assets, and it will be mainly organic. And if we do anything on the M&A side, it will be
tuck-in, nothing to get concerned with on the financial model.
And maybe I could just give you a little feel for this. We need to start turning up the advertising
and the marketing on what we're already doing for machine learning, whether it is recruiting,
employee approvals, payment processing, sales discounting approval or call center management
up to and including effectively using bots, we already have our machine learning solutions in
place, and we're rolling them out across industry. It will be a huge source of growth and probably
not factored in your models.
In terms of blockchain, it's another area that I'll just touch on because I know we talked a lot about
IoT but not so much ML and blockchain. If you think about banking, identity, compliance, security,
trade settlement, insurance, smart claims, manufacturing, track and trace, all these industries
have a blockchain case. And remember, more than three-quarters of the world transactions are
running through an SAP system. So our financial will actually form a very unique blockchain
business network. I kindly ask you to keep that in mind.
And then finally, on IoT, because it is real-time information, logistics, autonomous payments,
quality assurance, anti-counterfeiting, industrial and military cyber security, we're in all of these
areas at the application layer and we have it now. So it's not like a fantasy or dream or we give
you a toolbox and you build it. Our great development team is already building it or has built it
and is rolling out in customer establishments and maybe Stefan, at the Investor Day, we can give
you a complete overview, including all the logos. We're in flight already.
Q - `Adam D. Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
That's very helpful. Thank you very much.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Adam. Can I take the next question, please?
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Chandramouli Sriraman, Analyst, MainFirst Bank AG (UK) of MainFirst Bank. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Chandramouli Sriraman, Analyst, MainFirst Bank AG (UK) `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question and congrats on a good 2016. Just a couple from my side. So
you've raised at the midpoint your guidance by about €1.4 billion in revenues, out of which €0.5
billion comes from the cloud. Given that services is not a big mover in terms of the overall top-
line, I was just wondering, is this reasonable to assume that a big chunk of this guidance comesfrom licenses given that maintenance is predictable? Is it fair to sort of back calculate the impact
licenses? If you could help us go through the various moving parts that will be helpful.
And my second question is, Rob usually gives the number of live S/4HANA customers. I was just
wondering if you could have that number. And also, any comment on your S/4HANA public cloud
plans would be very helpful. Thanks.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Let me start maybe on the 2020 ambition, and then I'll pass on to Rob for the other
questions on S/4HANA cloud.
On the 2020 ambition raise on the top-line, you're right. Of course, when we devised the 2020
ambition, we were at the very beginning of introducing S/4HANA to the market. And hence, we
had aspiration for our core business that was still expecting declines and extending up to 2020 to
more significant single-digit declines.
Now, we see that in the last two years, we have been doing substantially better than that due to
introduction of S/4HANA, which has brought licenses back into positive growth territory in both
2015 and 2016. And so we don't expect anymore that there would be a substantial downturn in
our core business but that rather can sustain the approximate levels that we are seeing right now.
And that, of course, then leads to our total revenue aspiration and to also be higher than
originally expected.
A - `Rob Enslin, President-Global Customer Operations and Executive Board Member `
Absolutely. And the question on S/4HANA in the public multi-tenant cloud, we at Investor Day on
February 9 will feature this business prominently. We have a leader named Darren Roos who is
running it for us on an end-to-end basis. We have – think of it as a division going to market, with
S/4HANA public cloud multi-tenant and we're going for the fences here. We've got an
unbelievable solution. We had a big Q4 and it's obviously subscription revenue. And Bernd,
maybe you want to add a little bit of color?
A - `Bernd Leukert, Member of the Executive Board, Head-Products & Innovation `
Yeah. I think what we observed in the market that while the beginning of the cloud was clearly
driven by individual line of business solutions, we now see that it's the time where ERP moves to
the cloud. And it's great that we have anticipated that move early while we can play both choices.
If the customer wants to move the entire – I'm talking the entire ERP as a SaaS solution for multi-
tenancy capability, we have this now in our portfolio. And as Bill said, we will talk a bit about that at
the Capital Markets Day.
What I can refer to that we saw that uptake for the first time in history already starting very strong
in Q4. I can reference one customer who went live after the first conversation after seven weeks,
which is the beauty of the cloud. So this ease of consumption with the entire ERP is paying off,
and we have ambitious goals for 2017.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you. Let's move to the next...
A - `Rob Enslin, President-Global Customer Operations and Executive Board Member `
And I'll just add (38:14) 550 customers productive on S/4HANA.A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Rob. Let's move to the next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of John King of Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please go
ahead.
Q - `John P. King, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great. Good afternoon, and thank you for taking the questions. I think three probably mainly for
Luka, but firstly on the following up on the S/4 cloud side of things. Obviously, you're just starting,
I guess, to push there particularly around the core ERP. Are you factoring any significant amount of
the core ERP deal shifting from license to subscription in 2017, or is it still quite a small number?
Just help us out with how we should be thinking about and, therefore, the license trajectory
through the course of the year.
And a couple of follow-ups around the margin. Could you help us quantify what the cloud
migration projects at the moment are costing you on the margin side and also maybe the
customer co-innovation projects, how much of a drag that's creating?
And finally, on the cash flow side, obviously, very good progress in 2016. How does that look for
2017? Is there any priorities around CapEx that you might need to invest in related to the cloud
projects which might hold that back? Thanks.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So let me start. First of all, on the S/4 cloud, you're right. We will start to broadly penetrate
the right segment of the market with S/4 public cloud. This is a solution that is primarily geared
towards the upper mid-market and lower LE space where I think it will be quite attractive and will
help us as well to further growth in the cloud. But the expectation for shifts from license to
subscription from that end are really moderate and as by any means are anyway factored into the
overarching guidance that we have provided.
The second point on consulting and the scope of co-innovation projects and their impact on the
cloud margin, it's actually not insignificant. It's an impact of around about 5 percentage points
towards the margins. Now, you will always have some level of these co-innovation projects
because these are of necessary to continue and to use best practices from customers and build
them into our solution portfolio. However, their overall size of those engagements in 2016 has
clearly been above the normal, I would say. So we certainly expect that this will be one of the key
factors to improve our service profitability in 2017 when these projects are running out as planned
next year.
Then on the 2017 CapEx and cash flow progression, well, we generally believe that our cash flow
development will continue to follow our strong top-line progression that we are planning for. Of
course, in 2016, on a year-over-year comparison, we had an extraordinary effect that we had
huge restructuring-related cash outflows in 2015 in the second half of the year that we simply did
not happen in 2016. That's where we have the huge growth from. So we will certainly not see
triple-digit growth in cash flow in 2017. However, we believe that we'll continue to develop nicely
and trend upwards following our progression in terms of our business scope and business size as
a company.In terms of where it will go to, yes, we will continue to see expansion on the CapEx side. From a
percentage perspective, not as steep as from 2015 to 2016. So we will see already that the trend
will start to flatten out. But there will be still an increase, I will estimate by roughly 30% year-over-
year which, than in 2015, will reverse. And in terms of other uses of cash, I think nothing has really
changed there. We see quite a sufficient liquidity coverage based on our strong cash generation,
fund all organic innovation investments that we need to fund. We will continue to fund smaller
tuck-in acquisitions if they happen, for our operating cash flow.
We intend to pay an attractive dividend also for full-year 2016. As you have noted, earnings per
share have come up in IFRS and to the group level by 18%. So I think the assumption is reasonable
that you would see also a quite nice dividend based on that development. And we will, of course,
also pay back and continue to deleverage. We have €1.4 billion in debt that are coming up for
repayment in 2017. Despite all of this, there might still be an excess liquidity situation that we
might run to as of the second half of the year assuming there is similar tuck-in activity as we have
seen it in 2016. And if that should start to build up, then we would certainly consider to also
engage in moderate share buyback activities. That's it.
Q - `John P. King, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's take the next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of Walter Pritchard of Citi. Please go ahead.
Q - `Walter H. Pritchard, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker) `
Thank you. Luka, I'm wondering if you could talk about in the guidance, you sort of alluded to
stability in the quarter, you've gotten through the last two years with stable license. And I know
you have S/4 public cloud that's going to ramp up here. But if you think about the factors that
would still drive your license down, say, in the low-single digits to mid-single digits as you've
guided to over the next four years, what would be those factors and how should we look at sort
of their relative potential to swing that license number?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I think it would primarily be continued progression in the transformation of our line of
business solutions to the cloud. So we still have a moderate level of licenses of additional seats
in, for example, on-premise HR, in on-premise procurement, in on-premise customer relationship
management over time. These customers will certainly migrate with us to our respective cloud
solutions, and that we continue to have a certain dragging effect on licenses.
On the flipside, of course, our flagship solution S/4HANA, but also quite frankly, elements of our
on-premise portfolio around omni-channel e-commerce, Hybris, for example, will continue to
grow. And to what extent this will level out against each other is of course, very hard to predict. I
think over the course of the last two years, we gave a prudent and reasonable guidance around
that. And so far, we're always able to meet it. So we're very confident that for the next few years,
we also have the risk and reward and opportunity profile directionally right in this regard.And Walter, the one thing I would say, adding to Luka's comments is with S/4HANA, this is a
generational market opportunity. And thousands of customers will come from competitive
platforms to S/4HANA. And there will be a substantial number of them that could easily backfill
some of the evolutions that will migrate to the cloud versus running on-premise.
So we have a good feeling about what S/4HANA can do in all dimensions especially when you
consider in the last quarter, I think it was about half Net-New Names. And if I hear that half of Net-
New Names are coming in to the SAP portfolio with immense loyalty rates in the installed base,
the cloud and the network clicking on all cylinders, it kind of makes me feel like the whole thing is
tying together into one heck of a growth story.
Q - `Walter H. Pritchard, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker) `
Okay. Great. Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Let's move to the next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of Philip Winslow of Wells Fargo Securities. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Philip Alan Winslow, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities `
Hey. Thanks, guys, and congrats on a great end to what was obviously a very strong year. And it's
also good to be back covering you guys. Just two questions. First one for you, Bill. Luka did a
good job of walking through the R&D investments and then obviously the investments on the
COGS line in terms of just the forward guidance. But when you think about the go-to-market side,
and maybe Rob could also buzz in here, too, you obviously have multiple drivers going right now.
You've got license growing with S/4HANA, you've got the cloud business hitting pretty – some
key milestones. You surpassed Workday in terms of customer account for employees into Q3 and
so forth. So how are you sort of balancing that into the go-to-market? How do you feel about
your sort of the head count, the quotas, anything that you're kind of changing, I guess, or how
you're thinking about it next year and over the next couple of years will be great. And then I just
have a quick follow up for Luka.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Sure. I'll start and hand it over to Rob. I think one of the things we are laser-focused on is
bringing people into the company that can code software or sell software and creating immense
learning and training opportunities for these people, so we can get them young out of university
and build them in our own culture in our own image. It's kind of dull spending your time recruiting
from other software companies and then having to reinvent people. We'd rather start fresh and
do it right.
The other thing I think is worth mentioning is we have actually built quite a competency in the go-
to-market under the leadership of `Rob Enslin, President-Global Customer Operations and Executive Board Member and also `Steve Singh, President, Business Networks and Applications on the business network in the
cloud side. And I really think we have immense maturity and leadership also with the cooperation
of `Bernd Leukert, Member of the Executive Board, Head-Products & Innovation in the development side where we have some beautiful end-to-end businesses.
So we have this wonderful match of regional coverage models to deal with 193 countries and 25
distinctly different industries. But the way we're going to market and crossing over on verysignificant cloud network and end-to-end businesses such as S/4HANA cloud which I mentioned a
few minutes ago, I think really differentiates SAP. Most cultures can't handle it because they don't
have a symphony in their culture. They have a warzone.
So with regard to Rob, I'd like to turn it over to him, because he's doing a great job, and he told
me as really as this morning how strong the pipe is. So Rob, over to you.
A - `Rob Enslin, President-Global Customer Operations and Executive Board Member `
Thank you, Bill. First of all, I think it starts with stable leadership. And we've had stable leadership
in the go-to-market organization between Steve and myself for the last couple of years and
that's really paying dividends. Second piece is, we continue to hire graduates out of college and
into one year of training, bring them into the field and they're having a tremendous impact. And
we're talking significant numbers that links into our culture.
Third piece is our end-to-end model, when it comes to analytics, database, SuccessFactors,
customer engagement and commerce and Hybris, Ariba, et cetera. That's really working now
together with the regional model. So when you look at that model, it's really seen by now and
people really understand how to engage with customers and actually up-sell customers. So when
you look at our significant customer base, what you see is an S/4 environment, then connect it
with many, many SAP applications, Concur, Ariba, Fieldglass, et cetera.
And then lastly, I'd say we're obviously investing in the go-to-market significantly under Darren's
leadership, and we'll share that at the Capital Markets Day. We see that there is a significant
opportunity, and Q4 was actually very, very good for us in public cloud under S/4. And then what I
will tell you is significant growth opportunity as well in the go-to-market in our Eastern European
marketplace, our APJ marketplace, and our Latin America marketplace. And using our global
scale, you will see significant leverage as well there.
And probably lastly, our productivity has increased in the go-to-market side for the last four years,
and we continue to see that happen.
Q - `Philip Alan Winslow, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities `
Great. Thanks, guys. And then, just a quick – yeah, then there is a quick one for Luka. Luka, you
obviously gave guidance for 2017 in constant currency and there was clearly a lot of swings in
currency very late in the year. So I'm wondering if you can provide us more color on if currencies
remain stable with where they are right now, just what you'd expect the effect on the as-reported
numbers to be – maybe you'll touch on that at Analyst Day.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
No, that's a very good question, and I'm happy to answer it right away. It's also an important one
and we covered it also during the press conference earlier this morning. You're absolutely right.
It's the constant currency guidance. And as we know, currencies have moved not insubstantially
through the course of 2016.
Actually, the currency environment has been improved for SAP through the course of the year.
And hence, if you were to assume that the currency exchange rates from the beginning of the
year, so January 2 would prevail, then we would expect to see a positive tailwind impact on cloud
and software revenue of 3% to 3.5%, and on the operating profit from 3.5% to 4%.
If we take the exchange rates from yesterday then that effect would actually be approximately 2points for operating profit. So clearly, so far, we're in the tailwind category. And that's also
something that applies when you take a look at how we have converted the previous midterm
ambition from 2017 to a constant currency outlook right now.
And if you reflect back on the change of the exchange rate environment from average 2015
rates, which obviously were underlying the previous ambition update in the beginning of 2016 to
the average 2016 rates, you can actually see that there is even a slight headwind that we have
been facing between then and now on the currency side. So I think also, in light of this, one
should see the ambition update and the raise as a very positive sign of confidence of SAP.
Q - `Philip Alan Winslow, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities `
Awesome. Thanks, guys.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's take next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Gerardus Vos, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. of Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `Gerardus Vos, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Hi. Good afternoon, Bill and Luka, and congratulations on the strong Q4. Just a couple of
questions, if I may. Just first of all, on the 2020 guidance it's a very encouraging upgrade, I'm just
struggling to kind of bring the pieces together, because if I listen that we're now expecting a
license number. And if I look at the kind of FX changes since 2015, if there is an implied
downgrade to the outlook, unless my FX assumptions are wrong. So it will be great if you kind of
could help us a little bit around your kind of assumptions on FX and on the underlining thought for
the kind of business?
And then secondly, the tax rate ended up quite a lot lower than where it was guided at the
second quarter. Could you just provide us an update where you would expect this for 2017?
And then finally, a question for kind of Bill on the industry. Oracle has had a quite a bit of success
driving NetSuite into the kind of midmarket, and I guess that's where S/4 and the cloud is going to
be pitched as well. Just could you let us know when is this product kind of go-live and what we
should expect from the kind of ramp in kind of year one and two? Thank you.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
So Gerardus, thanks for the questions. I will answer the first two. First of all, on the 2020 ambition,
let's be clear on a few things. We are not necessarily assuming on an implied basis that licenses
will remain stable all the way through 2020. However, we have become more positive around the
overall scope of the license business, and so we're originally in the implied guidance, you would
have had a high-single digit decline in licenses. That's what we don't expect anymore.
There is still an expectation of low- to mid-single digit declines until 2020. And why are we
guiding in that way, implied? Because when you put out an ambition that goes until 2020, which I
think is something that is unprecedented in our history that you won't find by any other player,
despite all of the confidence, you want to be safe and you want to be rock solid with this
ambition. And the same applies, of course, also to the other metrics like the operating income as
well as the cloud revenue growth.So hence, you may characterize it as conservatism, but it's a guidance that we believe is readily
achievable. And that has been, I would say, a common theme you have seen from SAP in the
recent years that we are hitting what we are promising to the market. And the same will be true
for these targets.
And on the FX, actually what I said before and with regard to the 2017 outlook is true for 2020
obviously as well that the ambition update in 2016 where we left the 2020 targets unchanged
has, of course, now run its course in an exchange rate environment in 2016 that was a mild
headwind for SAP. So the fact that we are now upgrading it on the revenue side quite
substantially is actually and should be taken as a very positive thing.
On the tax rate side, you are right. We came in ultimately quite a bit lower than originally
expected in Q4. What was the main reason? The main reason was the different income allocation
in terms of our regional sources of income that we saw in Q4 versus our original planning
expectation. So we had a substantial bigger share of our revenue coming in from the European
markets where we generally are facing a lower tax environment, and hence, this had a positive
effect.
In terms of earnings per share progression and general earnings per share progression that we
have seen in Q4, this is – other than the tax effect also due to the fact that we had very nice
returns from exits of our Sapphire Ventures investment fund in Q4, there was a private sale of
one investment company that occurred and we had further sales of listed equity.
And on the other hand, we had slightly better interest income in Q4 based on a slightly higher
interest rate and higher cash that we had available due to the strong cash flow generation, while,
of course, we continue to deleverage and therefore also had less interest expenses. That's the
basic reason why we have, below the line, progressed so nicely.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
And Gerardus, what I'd like to also just give you an update on is the S/4 cloud, it's here now and
we've been selling it, and it's going extraordinarily well. So I'll let Bernd and Rob take turns giving
you some color on that. But also, I think it will be helpful for `Steve Singh, President, Business Networks and Applications to just give you an update
on business by design as well, because you mentioned that others are doing well. It's probably
important that you have the whole story. Bernd?
A - `Bernd Leukert, Member of the Executive Board, Head-Products & Innovation `
Yeah. Maybe to start first what I was explaining before already is the tremendous acceleration
and speed of adoption of the cloud is paying off now by the entire ERP. And we had seen that the
first time the significant impact in Q4, thanks to Darren Roos leadership.
In addition to that, we are heavily investing and that is probably of key interest for you to bring
down the cost of operation by further automating our data centers. So it will be fully software
driven, which is essential going forward as well for our margin.
And I hand over to Rob. Maybe, Rob, you can give a small outlook on our target for sales.
A - `Rob Enslin, President-Global Customer Operations and Executive Board Member `
Yeah. I mean, look, we saw, of course a significant in Q4 number of customers signing up for S/4
public cloud multi-tenant. We see a significant amount of those customers going live. Very
productive, very – actually, very, very satisfied, high-quality system. And we plan to broadcast thatgoing to find with those customers that have signed up for S/4 public cloud is that they are really
cool. They do some innovative things, and we're doing really innovative things with them. And the
time it took us go big with S/4 cloud was well – I think really well handled by SAP, because now,
what you see is the selection on the solution is at an all-time high and will allow us to elevate our
game and get scaled really rapidly in 2017.
A - `Bernd Leukert, Member of the Executive Board, Head-Products & Innovation `
Maybe closing comments...
A - `Rob Enslin, President-Global Customer Operations and Executive Board Member `
I'll just add a couple of things.
A - `Bernd Leukert, Member of the Executive Board, Head-Products & Innovation `
Rob, maybe a closing comment on one of the deals we have won. If you compare the modern
S/4 public cloud solution with NetSuite, I think many people forget that NetSuite is on the market
for more than a decade. So if somebody thinks this is a modern ERP in the cloud, this is already –
was probably more than a decade ago. In these days, a decade in the IT industry feels like a
century, and we have observed that especially last quarter in many head-to-head competitions.
So the user experience is superior in S/4. The response time with our leading platform of HANA
outpaces every transaction in NetSuite and as well the end-to-end processes we can support in
our dedicated scope is more comprehensive than any other competitive product. So from that
perspective you will hear more positive news going forward.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Steve?
A - `Steve Singh, President, Business Networks and Applications `
You said one – yeah, I had one thing to add real quick. I think if you look at SMB, obviously, a broad
definition of it. But underneath 1,500 employee companies, we have an exceptional distribution
engine map to look (01:01:25) Concur distribution into that segment where a very large portion of
the Concur growth mainly in the (01:01:34) quarter comes out of SMB. We think that with BYD
having been revamped over the past year, the opportunity to continue to drive BYD into that
segment is very, very strong. We've seen results to that extent over the course of the past
couple of quarters and we continue to invest aggressively against that opportunity.
And by the way, just when you think about BYD, most people (01:02:00) at the Capital Markets
Day think of it as not only a refreshed new technology stack, but being able to (01:02:07) – and
integrating into Concur, (01:02:09), SuccessFactors and other cloud products so we can deliver a
full suite of services into our SMB customers that helps them (01:02:17) business.
Q - `Gerardus Vos, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Okay. Thank you, guys. That was very complete. Thanks.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. I think given the time, we have time for one pre-final question.
OperatorFinal question comes from the line of Keith Bachman of BMO. Please go ahead.
Q - `Keith Frances Bachman, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States) `
Hi. Many thanks for taking the question. I wanted to just ask about S/4HANA adoption. I think the
number was said for what it was Q4, but I didn't quite pick it up. But in addition, as you think about
the 5,400 customers, what are you thinking about the conversation rate of those customers in
calendar year 2017 that supports the license growth? It sounds more like flattish. And how are you
thinking about that adoption trend if you had to parse it between cloud and on-premise? Thank
you.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Rob, did you want to talk about the actual S/4HANA data numbers you've previously quoted?
A - `Rob Enslin, President-Global Customer Operations and Executive Board Member `
Yeah. Sure. So we have 5,400-plus customers that have each selected S/4. Today, there is over
550 that are productive and live across not financials but logistics, the 1610 release. It's an
extremely stable version of the solution. And the expectation is that that number is going to grow
significantly with the amount of projects we have got ongoing which is probably closer to 2,500
projects right now that are ongoing around S/4.
When it comes to looking at S/4 and on-premise, or S/4 software and S/4 public cloud, I think,
Luka gave it, in the numbers, we continued to see not only strong uptick on S/4 in general across
the board, but also in HANA as a standalone big data platform with Vora and Altiscale. So as we
see some diminishing returns, as certain (01:04:07) moves to the cloud, we see very, very strong
growth in S/4 and in HANA. And as Bill said early on, I feel really good about the pipelines moving
into 2017.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Very good. Thank you very much. This concludes the financial analyst call for today and we look
forward to seeing you all in New York City on February 9 at our Capital Markets Day, on ice, of
course. Capital Markets Day on ice. That's the new brand I just announced. And thank you very
much for joining, and bye.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, everybody.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you. Bye-bye.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes SAP fourth quarter and full-year results 2016. Thank you for
participating. You may now disconnect.