Q4 2017 Earnings Call

Operator
Good day, and welcome to the SAP Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2017 Results Teleconference.
Today's conference is being recorded. And at this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to
`Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.
`Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Hey. Thank you. Good morning or good afternoon. This is `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations, Head of Investor
Relations. Thank you for joining to discuss our results for the fourth quarter and full-year 2017. I'm
joined by our CEO, Bill McDermott; and `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer & Member of the Executive Board, our CFO who will both make opening remarks
on the call today. Also joining us for Q&A are board members Rob Enslin who runs Cloud Business
Group; and `Bernd Leukert, Head, Products & Innovation and Member of the Executive Board, who leads Product & Innovation.
Before we get started, as usual, I want to say a few words about forward-looking statements and
our use of non-IFRS financial measures. Any statements made during this call that are not
historical facts are forward-looking statements, as defined in the U.S. Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995.
Words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, may, plan, project, predict,
should, outlook, and will, and similar expressions as they relate to SAP are intended to identify
such forward-looking statements. SAP undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any
forward-looking statements.
All forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause
actual results to differ materially from expectations. The factors that could affect SAP's futureCommission, the SEC, including SAP's Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2016 filed with the SEC on
February 28, 2017. Participants are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-
looking statements which speak only as of their dates.
In addition, on our Investor Relations website, you can find our quarterly statement and the
financial summary slide deck, which are intended to supplement our prepared remarks today and
include a reconciliation from our non-IFRS numbers to IFRS numbers. There, you can also find an
education video explaining the impact of IFRS 15 on our 2018 outlook.
Unless otherwise noted, all financial numbers referred to on this conference call are non-IFRS,
and growth rates are non-IFRS constant currency. The non-IFRS financial measures we provide
should not be considered as a substitute for or superior to the measures of financial
performance prepared in accordance with IFRS.
And before I hand over to our CEO, Bill McDermott, let me state that we are excited to welcome
you back to our Annual Capital Markets Day to be held at our Hudson Yards office in New York
City on March 6 (02:57) more detail about the innovation growth drivers behind our 2020
ambitions.
With that, I'd like to turn things over to Bill.
`William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer & Member of the Executive Board `
Thank you very much, Stefan, and hello, everyone. I appreciate you joining us today, which
incidentally marks the anniversary of my 9th year as CEO of SAP and, therefore, I could not be
prouder to share some comments about our past, our present, and of course our exciting future.
Back in 2010, we set bold ambitions for SAP. We focused on our customers to be a truly global
business software market leader. We set out to reinvent the database industry. Forrester has now
defined the new market for Translytical Data Platforms and, of course, they ranked SAP HANA as
the clear number one.
We led the market with intelligent ERP built on an in-memory architecture. Today we have 7,900
SAP S/4HANA customers representing 46% year-on-year growth. We acquired the best assets to
help customers innovate at scale. SAP SuccessFactors, SAP Ariba, SAP Fieldglass, SAP Hybris, and
SAP Concur are all thriving with soaring customer adoption. The proof is clear, SAP converts
acquisitions into fast organic growth stories on a global basis. We know how to do this well, so
therefore there's a clear prognosis for CallidusCloud, which we'll discuss shortly.
Overall, we focused on a purposeful vision, winning strategy, customer success, and profitable
growth. Since 2009, SAP has doubled or tripled our customers, revenues, profits, and market
value. We've consistently met all guidance metrics even after multiple raises, such was the case in
2017. We made big promises and those promises have been kept. This company is firing on all
cylinders.
Our 2017 results were the latest in this record run. True to my word, new cloud bookings surged
31% in Q4 and 30% for the full year. Cloud subscriptions and support backlog soared 38% hitting,
€7.5 billion. We have a €4-billion-plus cloud business growing faster than most so-called best-of-
breed stand-alone cloud companies. New cloud and software license order entry was up 17%.
And even though we don't guide on it, it's important to note that software licenses grew 2% for
the full year, which also exceeded expectations while competitors consistently declined, most of
the time in double digits.SAP is still the only company in the business software industry at scale to deliver both fast cloud
growth and license growth. With EPS up strongly, plus 14%, this was a stellar profitable growth
performance. It also once again represents a trifecta of cloud, software, and operating income
growth. On top of an outstanding 2017, we're moving forward with great confidence. We now
target approximately €25 billion in total revenue in 2018, including continued fast growth of
around 30% in the cloud, even at larger scale.
2018 will also mark two key milestones for SAP: cloud revenue is expected to overtake license
revenue for the first time; we expect margins to commence on an upward path, and Luka will
explain the 2018 guidance in full detail shortly.
Looking further into the future, we confidently reiterate our 2020 ambitions, even in the face of
currency headwinds. We expect cloud to grow at, again, 30% compounded annual growth rate
and more than double by 2020. We also expect operating profit expansion to accelerate
throughout all the way through 2020 and beyond. SAP has strong growth drivers powering this
momentum. And remember, it's not those individual pieces that make SAP unique in the in the
industry. In the proudest tradition of our Business Suite, it is the completeness of SAP innovation
that makes us a global powerhouse.
For example, the Emirates Group selected SAP in a competitive evaluation to support their
complete digital transformation. SAP will provide an integrated, multi-cloud ERP solution for
finance with SAP S/4HANA extended by SAP's cloud platform. We'll enable a modern HR
approach with SAP's SuccessFactors; we'll help transform procurement with SAP Ariba; and we
will simplify the lives of employees with their travel and expense using SAP Concur. This is the
power of SAP, vital. The suite is in.
Major brands around the world are validating this complete cloud innovation strategy. Standard
Chartered, a British multinational bank and financial services company also chose multiple SAP
solutions. Unilever, Puma and Phillips 66 are some of the many companies selecting S/4HANA,
which again grew new cloud bookings in triple digits in Q4. Robert Bosch, Deutsche Telekom,
they're both transforming their front office with SAP Hybris solutions. Beiersdorf, Foxconn,
AkzoNobel are the latest to choose SAP SuccessFactors with 47% year-on growth in customers
for Employee Central. This business now has major momentum.
Ford Motor and Coca-Cola chose SAP Ariba to make procurement awesome. UBS chose SAP
Fieldglass to address its multichannel workforce. Vodafone and Barclays selected Concur in Q4 to
give their employees the perfect trip. End-to-end, demand chain to supply chain, back office to
front office, SAP is delivering the most complete cloud in the enterprise.
So, that's where we're at now. What's the future looking like? Even as we win today's markets,
SAP is always looking around corners to future growth. The data centricity, intelligent computing,
digital commerce, business networks, these are the market-making opportunities ahead for SAP.
The SAP HANA data management suite will continue to reshape the architecture of enterprise
computing. Even as customers move to the cloud, many are unable to maximize the value of data
coming from endless sources.
With full use, SAP HANA, SAP HANA Vora, SAP Data Hub, we will give customers the tools to truly
monetize enterprise data. SAP Leonardo is leading the invention of business next practices. When
you consider the influence of technological breakthroughs, it will not be a single technology that
changes how businesses run. AI, machine learning, Internet of Things, blockchain, all of these
technologies will work together as businesses go digital. And only SAP offers this holistic
approach from design thinking to industry domain expertise, all in a global footprint.A customer who wants to build a prototype, show proof of concept and rapidly scale innovation,
we offer SAP Leonardo together with the SAP Cloud Platform. For example, the San Francisco
49ers in the United States will use Leonardo Machine Learning and SAP Analytics together. This
will deliver season ticket renewal pattern insights to improve the fan experience. A world-leading
food company will use SAP Leonardo to detect off-brand counterfeit baby formula in China's
marketplace. This food company wants to build an intelligent solution that can scale fast with less
risk. That's why they turned to SAP.
With new additions like Gigya and CallidusCloud, SAP has taken decisive action to reinvent the
front office. Under the leadership of Carsten Thoma, SAP Hybris remains the market leader in
omnichannel e-commerce. I congratulate him for his many contributions to SAP. Now, one of our
very best, `Alex Atzberger, President, SAP Hybris, who did a great job running Ariba, will do an amazing job as his
successor. The acquisition of Gigya and the age of data privacy means that SAP will own the
digital consumer record, the epicenter of the customer experience.
Now, with the planned acquisition of CallidusCloud, which we announced earlier today, we will
own the lead to cash conversation in the market. SAP will fuse our commerce solutions and
S/4HANA fulfillment engine with CallidusCloud's market-leading sales solutions. Together, we will
deliver the most complete end-to-end cloud-based offering in the market. CallidusCloud is
already a very fast-growing company, but together, with SAP's global scale, like its predecessors,
CallidusCloud will grow even faster. Count on it.
Business Networks is another breakout opportunity that is only just beginning. Today, SAP owns
the spend management categories in the enterprise: direct; indirect materials; contingent labor;
travel and expenses. In the near future, SAP will build transformational new business models on
top of the $1 trillion in commerce that runs through these networks. We choose to think of this,
not only as SAP's network; we intend to make this the network of networks; the business world's
marketplace.
The uniqueness of SAP's global innovation agenda has not gone unnoticed. Just in the past few
days, Presidents Macron and Trump, Prime Ministers Modi, Trudeau, and Netanyahu, have all
reemphasized their trust in SAP. In these countries we're investing to shape a new generation of
digital entrepreneurs. We will use our digital boardroom technology to give leaders a real-time
dashboard to measure outcomes from policy decisions, and their citizens will have full visibility.
We aspire to use SAP HANA to look beneath the surface of the world's health care systems, to
the individual genome for personalized medicine. Bottom line, only SAP can help governments
perform like best-run businesses.
We're also focused on solving the world's most significant challenges, because SAP is a purpose-
driven innovator. Yes, this is, in fact, a major, major factor in our inspired global workforce. We
have soaring employee engagement scores, and we won 300 awards last year for employee
satisfaction. It is also a business imperative for the SAP ecosystem. Organizations driven by
purpose outperform the market 15:1. The days of measuring success purely on financial basis
alone are over. SAP will stay the market leader because we help the world run better and
improve people's lives.
In closing, we believe this is not a time for measured ambitions. In a world filled with anxiety about
automation, SAP will lead a new economy where intelligent machines enable augmented
humanity. SAP will bridge universities, business, and governments, to initiate a new workforce with
the digital skills to win. SAP will come to the table on the global stage to help restore trust, which,
of course, is the ultimate human currency.We will do this with the nearly 90,000 of the finest professionals in the history of the IT industry. I
thank them for their enormous dedication to SAP for focusing on keeping our customers for life.
Through their passion, we're a humble company that stands united to fight like an underdog. We
also stand on the shoulders of giants, which is why we put nothing above our core values,
integrity, curiosity, diversity, and purpose-driven innovation.
I'd like to thank all the stakeholders that are on the call today for believing in our company, and I
can assure you here today the best is unquestionably yet to come because now, as ever, the
best run SAP.
I'd like to turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer, `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer & Member of the Executive Board. Luka, over to you.
`Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer & Member of the Executive Board `
Yeah. Thank you very much, Bill. Hello, everybody. From my side, looking at our results it's clear
that we again delivered on our financial targets, and we now have consistently either met or
exceeded our financial targets ever since we announced our midterm ambition three years ago.
In fact, we have hit all guidance metrics, even where, in some cases, those metrics were raised
multiple times during the year. SAP once again showed impressive resilience and global breadth
to successfully navigate the evolving economic and political environment.
I wanted to start by talking about some financial and non-financial highlights for the year. First, for
2017, our overall strong business performance led to an even more predictable business, now at
63% share of revenue on track towards a 70% to 75% share in 2020. We had another strong year
in terms of EPS and operating cash flow. EPS grew by double digits, and cash flow exceeded €5
billion for the first time ever.
Our employees are clearly excited to work for SAP. Our employee engagement score remained
extremely high at 85%. By investing in professional development, our overall retention rate
improved to 94.6%. Also, in 2017, we reduced greenhouse gas emissions to 325 kilotons, already
achieving the goal we set for 2020 to reduce our emissions to our 2000 level three years ahead
of schedule.
Our total revenue hit the high end of the guidance range, even though we raised it twice
throughout 2017. As Bill mentioned, we kept our promise. New cloud bookings, our key metric for
new business in the cloud, exceeded 30% growth in Q4. Our cloud backlog search, as also said
already by Bill, up 38% to €7.5 billion. These are really impressive results on top of very strong
prior-year growth for both of these metrics.
Cloud revenue was up 28% in 2017, achieving our target. Even with fast growth in the cloud, our
software revenue grew again. This now marks the third straight year of beating our own software
revenue expectations, reflecting the strength of the underlying S/4HANA generational upgrade
cycle.
In total, SAP's core, our software and support business combined, is rock solid, growing mid-
single digits in 2017, significantly outperforming the competition, as Bill already mentioned. This
unique combination of fast-growing cloud and solid momentum in the core, powered cloud and
software revenue to 8% growth, delivering on our raised outlook for the full year. SAP is clearly
growing at superior rates and without any contribution of large acquisitions in 2017. And the future
looks even more promising, as our combined cloud and software order entry grew even higher,
up 17%.So, let me spend a few words on the regional results for the full year. We had a solid
performance in the EMEA region with cloud and software revenue increasing 7%. Cloud revenue
was strong and grew by 48%, with an especially strong year in Germany, Russia, and Spain. In
addition, we had strong double-digit software revenue growth in the Netherlands and Russia.
Germany also had solid growth in software revenue.
We had solid growth in the Americas region as well. Cloud and software revenue grew by 6%.
Cloud revenue increased by 18%. In cloud revenue, Brazil and the U.S. had solid performances,
while Argentina and Canada grew double-digits in software revenue. The U.S., important to note,
also had solid growth in software revenue.
In the APJ region, we had a truly strong performance in both cloud and software revenue and
cloud revenue. Cloud and software revenue was up 12%. Cloud revenue grew by 47%. Japan and
Australia had strong cloud revenue growth and solid double-digit growth in software revenue.
Greater China was also a highlight with double-digit growth.
Now to profitability, and given the material currency headwinds, I will talk to constant currency
gross margins and operating margins. Our fast-growing cloud business, the revenue mix shift
obviously impacted our year-over-year cloud and software margin, that is by 70 basis points in
Q4; however, we were able to limit the overall decline to only 50 basis points.
Our business network margin and our private cloud margin increased both year-over-year and
sequentially. Our business network margin was up 2 percentage points year-over-year to 77.3%.
Our private cloud margin was up 8 percentage points year-over-year to 8.2%.
For our public cloud, or SaaS/PaaS business, we continue to harmonize our data landscape
towards a highly standardized converged cloud platform, as we have discussed on previous calls.
These investments, however, began to stabilize in 2017. We are confident this trend will continue
in 2018, especially since almost half of our SuccessFactors customers have already migrated to
HANA and, by the end of the second quarter, we expect 80% of our SuccessFactors customers
have already migrated to HANA.
Therefore, as you can see from the sequential development of our public cloud margin in 2017,
the year-over-year decline steadily improved. While we saw a decline of 4 percentage points for
the full year; in Q4, the margin was only down 2 percentage points year-over-year. The same can
be said about our overall cloud margin. While we saw a decline of 2 percentage points for the full
year; in Q4, the margin was only down 1 percentage point year-over-year. We actually improved
our cloud margin sequentially from Q3 to Q4. This helped initiate the operating margin
turnaround in Q4 as well, setting us up for expansion in 2018.
Now, let me switch to our services margin, where we grew by 5 percentage points year-over-
year. This was driven by the continued efficiency gains from our one service initiative, as well as
the solid top line performance and the reduction of co-investment projects, basically the same
forces that you saw all the way through the year.
Moving to our operating profit, where we grew 4% to €6.92 billion at constant currencies,
achieving our raised outlook. In the fourth quarter, our growth rate actually accelerated further, it
was up 6% year-over-year. Throughout 2017, we have steadily improved our operating margin
trajectory, as promised. Our non-IFRS operating margin at constant currencies declined 1.4
percentage points year-over-year in the first half of 2017, improving to a drop of 90 basis points
in the third quarter.And as I mentioned before, the fourth quarter signaled the beginning of a turnaround with an
operating margin of 35.2%, a year-over-year decline of only 10 basis points. This all now sets us
up and paves the way for the strong growth and margin expansion that we expect in 2018 and
beyond.
In the fourth quarter, we also had substantial onetime tax benefits from an intra-group transfer of
IP rights within the group, as well as the U.S. tax reform. For the full year 2017, our IFRS effective
tax rate in consequence was 19.3%, down 6 percentage points; while our non-IFRS rate was
22.6%, down 4.2 percentage points. For 2018, we expect an IFRS and non-IFRS effective tax rate
of 27% to 28%.
EPS in the fourth quarter was strong, as anticipated, driven primarily by our strong operating
performance and another successful quarter for our venture capital funds, Sapphire Ventures. But
obviously EPS also benefited from the onetime tax benefits. Our full year non-IFRS EPS was €4.44
per share, up 14%.
Now, a few words on cash flow and liquidity, a nice piece of our results that I'm glad to share.
Operating cash flow grew 9% in 2017, continuing a positive three-year trend. We shared our
success with shareholders by returning €2 billion in 2017 through the share buyback and the
dividend. Our net debt was €1.5 billion at the end of 2017. We improved net liquidity by €1.7 billion.
Actually, if you go back three years, our net liquidity has improved in total by more than €6 billion,
thanks to our consistently strong operating cash flow, paired with our continued commitment to
fast deleveraging.
Now, before going into our outlook, I wanted to mention that we expect for 2018 a net positive
impact on operating profit of approximately €0.2 billion from IFRS 15 mainly from cost benefits.
For more details about the impact of IFRS 15 on our 2018 financials, please refer to the quarterly
statement and an educational video by our Chief Accounting Officer, Dr. Christoph Hütten, on our
Investor Relations website.
Now, moving on to our outlook for the full year 2018; we expect non-IFRS cloud revenue to be in
a range of €4.8 billion to €5 billion at constant currencies; that is up 27% to 33%. Non-IFRS cloud
and software revenue is expected to be in a range of €20.7 billion to €21.1 billion at constant
currencies, up 6% to 8%.
Non-IFRS total revenues is expected to be in a range of €24.6 billion to €25.1 billion at constant
currencies, up 5% to 7%. And we expect non-IFRS operating profit to be in a range of €7.3 billion
to €7.5 billion at constant currencies, up 8% to 11%. We have also updated our currency
expectations for the impact on reported growth rates in 2018. You can find more details in our
quarterly statement.
This outlook, to be clear again, does not include any contributions from Callidus. We will update
our outlook once the acquisition is closed. We have confirmed our 2020 ambition for consistent
fast growth in cloud, robust overall top line momentum, and profitability growth despite all the
currency headwinds that we were facing in 2017.
So to summarize, we delivered strong top line growth and continued to expand our operating
profit. On top of that, our cash generation and EPS growth remains strong. Our performance, our
portfolio, and our pipeline make us confident that we will deliver on our midterm ambitions.
Thank you, and we will now be happy to take your questions.
`Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `Thank you. Operator, we can now start the Q&A session.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. And we can take our first question from John King from Bank of America. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `John P. King, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Yeah. Thank you. Good afternoon. I've got three quick questions for Luka and probably one for
Bill. Luka, first of all on the margin, can you share some plans around your planned increase in
head count for 2018, just so we can get a sense of the mix between the overhead growth and
the gross margin improvement that you're expecting?
Secondly, along the same lines, looking at the stock comp guide at the back of the presentation,
it looks to be down around 15% at the midpoint. Could you just talk about whether there's any
one-offs driving that or if that's a sustainable level as we look forward, and is that somewhat
influenced by the stock price? But I'd be interested in your thoughts there.
And then perhaps a few comments on the seasonality. If I look at Q1, you've got a pretty
challenging comp on the margin as well as I think on license and bookings. So, just maybe some
thoughts about how you expect particularly the margins to evolve through the course of the year.
And then if I can just squeeze in one for Bill, some comments on S/4HANA public cloud and how
meaningful a driver you think that could be for the bookings. Thank you.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer & Member of the Executive Board `
Okay then, let me start and go ahead with your first questions. And so first of all on the head
count, I think you should expect if everything goes as planned and we continue to drive our
business momentum in the same way with the same strong growth on the top line as we did in
2017, that we would likely hire to approximately the same levels at what you have seen in 2017
with certainly, again, a certain bias in the first half-year because we want to have people
productive as we go into the very important and volume-driven second half of the year.
In terms of the share-based compensation, you're right. We see an upper end of the share-
based compensation from today's perspective at approximately the levels that we have had in
2017. And that is really only a function of the development of the share price in the last few
weeks, which we need to take as a basis from a volume perspective in terms of grants that we
are giving out to our employees. This is expected to broadly follow the growth in our employee
population.
And in terms of the seasonality, that is a little bit hard to predict. If I was only talking about the
underlying margin progression outside of the IFRS 15 effect, then I would clearly say that we
should expect, given the tougher comps as you said in Q1, a stronger progress as of the second
quarter. Now that gets a little bit tough to estimate because some of the top line related IFRS 15
effects are dependent on when customers will exercise material rights that they've been granted
in previous years. That might change the picture a bit, but everything else being equal, I would
say as of Q2 is where we clearly should see a pick-up in margins.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer & Member of the Executive Board `And on the S/4HANA Cloud, John, that's the lead story in the company. And if you think about
global customer operations and all geographies and industries around the world, this is the
biggest focus, and it also has the highest ceiling of any product in the portfolio. I would be very
bullish on S/4HANA Cloud.
Q - `John P. King, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Let's take the next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. We will now take our next question from Michael Briest from UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Michael J. Briest, Analyst, UBS Ltd. `
Thanks. Good morning. Good afternoon. Just in terms of the gross margin in the cloud, Luka,
pleasing to see that stabilization quarter-on-quarter. I'm curious about the 2020 mix. At the last
Capital Markets Day, you envisaged roughly, sort of, 40%, 45% coming equally from business
networks and the SaaS/PaaS business.
The growth rate to get there seemed to be quite different from what we're seeing today, So
we're seeing sort of 16% or so in business network and well over 30% in SaaS/PaaS. Are you still
expecting that broad mix to be the same? And coming back to the SaaS/PaaS margin, I
appreciate there's some one-offs but, by my maths, your Q4 cost base is nearly €800 million
when it's annualized, and that's the same number you need in 2020 to get to an 80% gross
margin. And then I just had a follow-up on CapEx.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer & Member of the Executive Board `
Okay. Do you want to give me that one that I can answer everything in the same...
Q - `Michael J. Briest, Analyst, UBS Ltd. `
Yeah, sure. So, I'm curious where CapEx will come out this year. And, as you start to work with
Microsoft and Google more as I think Bill mentioned on this morning's call, should that bring down
that ratio? I mean, it seems to be quite high, if a lot more of the underlying infrastructure is
running on third party. Thanks.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer & Member of the Executive Board `
Yeah. Thanks, Michael. These are both very good questions. Happy to answer them. So first of all,
on the gross margin, we actually continue to believe that, in 2020, we will drive an overarching
cloud margin mix in the low-70s, as previously shared. But indeed, we now believe that there will
be a different mix to that. So we believe, first of all, that our assumptions to business networks
and their contribution are broadly unchanged but they're definitely going to have the potential to
go above their 80% 2020 target because of the progress that we have made so far. So, I think
there is an opportunity for an outperformance there.
In terms of the Private Cloud, I think it is from a gross margin perspective definitely where we
want it to be, and that we will see further progress towards the 40% target that we have set forfrom previous assumptions, because we're seeing already now that the growth in SaaS/PaaS in
particular is picking up and is actually starting to overtake again the growth that we have in new
business order entry for HANA Enterprise Cloud. And that means that we would expect that we
would not be substantially above the 10% share for the Infrastructure-as-a-Service piece and the
rest would be filled up with SaaS/PaaS, which will definitely climb up in terms of gross margin
contribution as of next year, as the migration of third-party databases will be completed, as we
have discussed on previous occasions.
Having said that, you are right that we have taken longer from an investment perspective for this,
and therefore we don't fully expect that the SaaS/PaaS margin in 2020 will be meeting the 80%
threshold. This will still come, but it will take us a year maximum to longer to get there. Having
said that, the changed mix will do the job for us to bring us in at the low-70s overarching gross
margin contribution, and I think that gives you also a hint on the mix. We definitely believe with S/4
Cloud, with the SAP Cloud Platform picking up so strongly that SaaS/PaaS growth rates will
substantially outperform the ones of the other two elements.
Then on CapEx just quickly, you're absolutely right. We expect that our CapEx growth rates will
come down. They actually have already come down in 2017 to a certain extent. When you take a
look, our CapEx growth in 2016 was tremendous, more than 50%. Now in 2017, we were down to
just shy of 30% CapEx growth, so approximately the same growth rate as our cloud revenues.
In 2018, we should expect that CapEx growth starts to trail again, the revenue progression in the
cloud, so we should definitely land at lower than €1.6 billion. And as of 2019 when we have made
our products, core products available in a holistic sense on hyperscale cloud infrastructures from
Google, from Microsoft, then definitely we should see that the further expansion and growth will
be much more muted than even that already reduced level. So, there is definitely leverage from
our collaboration with partners in this space.
Q - `Michael J. Briest, Analyst, UBS Ltd. `
Thank you. Can I just ask a clarification on the S/4 Cloud? I mean, for a while you've talked about
licenses declining and it hasn't happened because the adoption has been on-premise, but with
S/4 Cloud do you now firmly believe the licenses should show a modest decline going forward?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer & Member of the Executive Board `
Yes. Quite frankly, this is as always very difficult to predict. That's why we choose to take a
prudent implied growth assumption, which if you do the math, would point to low to mid-single
digit declines in license. As we have always shared, this was always part of the underlying
midterm ambition that we had in place. Now, that ambition or that implied expectation has not
come through so far in the last few years. Let's see what happens, but we are prepared for
everything by giving you a very prudent guidance.
Q - `Michael J. Briest, Analyst, UBS Ltd. `
Thanks, Luka.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's take the next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. We can take our next question from `Kirk Materne, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC from Evercore ISI. Please go ahead.Q - `Kirk Materne, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC `
Yes. Thanks very much, and thanks for taking my question. Bill, maybe just a question for you.
Obviously, your cloud guidance when you look out through 2020 implies you guys can maintain
sort of a 30% growth rate. What are you seeing in the pipeline right now that gives you
confidence that's realistic? Obviously, it's harder to continue to grow at that rate off a higher
base. And then maybe just a second question around Callidus. A lot of players in the lead-to-cash
market, why did that asset make the most sense for SAP? Thanks very much.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer & Member of the Executive Board `
Okay. Sure. Thank you, Kirk. First of all, enormous confidence in S/4HANA Cloud and when I think
about SAP's position right now and I am reminded by the many conversations in Davos, CEOs are
ready to run simple. They want a company that is essentially a virtual suite. So, they get the
benefits of the industry-best ERP in the cloud and they get the modularity at the line-of-business
level with the SuccessFactors, our CRM solutions, our business network solutions, and obviously
from an intelligent enterprise perspective, all we are doing with Leonardo to give them an end-
to-end company.
But the beauty of this is it's all available in the cloud and you can go in a modular fashion with SAP
but in the end, you know you've got an integrated connected company. And that to me is saying
really good things about all the cloud assets, all the pipelines in our company look very, very good
whether it's the core ERP S/4HANA, the line of business, SuccessFactors is really on a momentum
run right now with enormous amount of wins and when we face off with some of the well-known
industry names like what might have been a flip of a coin is no longer a flip of a coin. If we're in
there competing, we're winning most of the time.
I really like what we did with Callidus on the CRM side. You have to remember a couple things
here. One, we run Callidus to run SAP, so we had the best engineers in the software industry
study this extremely carefully. About 80% of their revenue comes from the U.S. market now. Can
you imagine when we light up the global switch for growth? And, yes, it will scale, and it will scale
globally. We know it scales extremely well.
The other piece is on CRM. When you think about the whole value chain, this is a customer-driven
growth revolution right now. The customer is on the move, they're social, they're in all channels,
they're doing a lot of e-commerce, but when you think about wholesale, retail, direct, and then
tying everything together in a very simple supply chain manufacturing product delivery format, as
long as we are as good, we win. And now, I think we have a real chance.
But what happened here with Callidus, because they are the market leader, is now we got into
the psyche of the sales professional. We're now in the sales professional's pipeline; we're in the
way they configure price and quote a deal, whether it's a product or a service; and we're actually
in their compensation headset. And when you get into the headset of a sales rep's
compensation, that's a piece of the DNA we hadn't covered before. And it would have taken us a
little too long to build it with our S/4HANA ambition. We snap it in there; we integrate it back into
S/4HANA; and we feel very comfortable that we'll handle the market participants. We'll definitely
handle them.
So, we're coming out very aggressive in CRM. So, think of it as this. The core is rock solid; the line
of business is there; we own spend management in the business network; Leonardo is just
incredible; and Callidus really strengthens us in the area where we needed it most, so we go get
the CRM space. It's too big a market to leave alone, and some of the participants have had it aQ - `Kirk Materne, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC `
Thanks a lot, Bill.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you. We'll take the next question. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. We can take our next question from Mohammed Moawalla from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Mohammed E. Moawalla, Analyst, Goldman Sachs International `
Great. Thank you. One for Luka; and one for Bill. Luka, can you just reconfirm the kind of trajectory
of the margin improvement, both on a constant currency and a reported basis? I think on the Q3
call, you sort of alluded to a sort of flattish trajectory into H1 and then on a constant currency
basis, and then improving into the back half. And obviously, while gross margin is a key driver this
year, talk a bit about over the midterm where you see the levers as operating profit growth
accelerates. I knew you had alluded to some optimization in the sales and marketing spend and
sales organization, so if you could confirm that for us, that'd be great.
And secondly, Bill, on Callidus, the acquisition, how quickly do you think you can start to unlock
some of these revenue synergies? Obviously, we saw it with SuccessFactors and Ariba, given
those were your initial acquisitions, it took some time. So, I'm just curious from the point of
closing, how quickly should we start to see those revenue synergies unlocking the installed base?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer & Member of the Executive Board `
Yes. So, Mo, on the margin side, I will really focus on the progression comments on a constant
currency basis, because I don't have a crystal ball, quite frankly, that can tell me the currency
movements during next year. I wish I would have it, then I would not be in this spot any longer
probably. So, from a constant currency basis, as I said, I would expect that in Q1, we would rather
still have a relatively muted progression from a margin perspective, and then the trajectory
should start to build as of Q2 2018.
In terms of the key drivers for improvement, of course, it's, first of all, as we continue to move
away and migrate away customers from the legacy infrastructure to the ones that are HANA-
enabled, that gives us room and space to retire elements of cost that we so far still have in our
cost base. Then secondly, as we build up a strong share of renewal revenues in the cloud, we
have seen that especially the relative sales and marketing spend has been increasing in 2017.
That's definitely a trend that should now come down, and we should start to see a slight
deceleration in this space.
And then we have still various efficiency gains that we are hunting after internally. We have, for
example – I shared this during the press conference as well, just on life in Q4 with certain artificial
intelligence capabilities in our shared service centers around cash application and invoice
matching. We will proliferate our automation capabilities with further use cases that we will
implement. But that should definitely limit any expansion on nonproductive sales and marketing
and R&D resource, which would help us in 2018 as well. So, from that perspective, especially for
the last three quarters of the year, I'm extremely confident that we will deliver on our margin
improvement aspirations.A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer & Member of the Executive Board `
And, Mohammed, I would like to thank you very much for the question. First of all, this is
salespeople selling a product they use every day, a product that they're hooked on. I mean, that's
what I mean about getting into the psyche. We've never had a product like this, where the
salespeople are selling something they love to use right out of the gate.
Now, Leslie, the CEO of the company, also immediately saw the virtue in full integration with SAP.
So, this isn't one that we're going to be running over in a corner somewhere. This is right back
into the core of the company. So, we will hit the ground running on this. And day one, we will start
accelerating the growth rates of CallidusCloud globally.
And just to back me up on that, I've got Mr. `Robert Enslin, President, Cloud Business Group, the Cloud Business Group Leader; as
well as `Alex Atzberger, President, SAP Hybris here, who's taken over the CRM business for SAP. These guys are like
semi-lifting the table up with excitement, so I'll give them a chance to give you a few remarks.
A - `Robert Enslin, President, Cloud Business Group `
Yeah, Mohammed, I think it's the best asset in the industry, because we actually know it's the best
asset in the industry. We work with this management team really close. I think day one, we will
accelerate the growth of the CRM space. And I believe it provides us with a unique opportunity in
the sales side to do what no other company has done in the sales side, which is connect to end-
to-end digital supply chain.
I think there's no better reference than 25,000 sales professionals in 190 countries around the
world utilizing that every day. So, are we pumped? Absolutely, we are pumped. And I think the
show's on the road.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer & Member of the Executive Board `
And maybe just this one comment from my side. Bill said before that with the solutions of
Callidus, especially around sales performance management, we're in the salesperson's head. I
would argue with sales compensation management. We are probably in their hearts beyond their
heads.
A - `Robert Enslin, President, Cloud Business Group `
Alex, you want to say something? Come on.
A - `Alex Atzberger, President, SAP Hybris `
Mohammed, I can just add to this that our customers are shifting from being product companies
to service businesses, and this requires a new sales force. And we are that new sales force. And
when you look at getting into that heart of the salesperson, that's right where we're at, so we're
very, very excited.
Q - `Mohammed E. Moawalla, Analyst, Goldman Sachs International `
Great. Thank you, everyone.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you. So, let's take the next question, please.Operator
Thank you. We can take our next question from Walter Pritchard from Citi. Please go ahead.
Q - `Walter H. Pritchard, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Hi. Thanks. Just a follow up on the prior question around S/4. Can you help us understand how
fast that's progressing in the mix – the S/4 public cloud in the mix? And are we starting to see
larger customers there in Q4, or what you're expecting for 2018 that would have bought license,
and now they're buying cloud there? Is that a material factor, both in the fourth quarter as well as
what you're expecting in 2018, Luka?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer & Member of the Executive Board `
Maybe I'll let Bernd answer, this because he's the business leader responsible for that business, if
you don't mind, yeah?
A - `Bernd Leukert, Head, Products & Innovation and Member of the Executive Board `
Yeah. Hello...
Q - `Walter H. Pritchard, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Sure. And then I have one follow-up. Yes. Thanks.
A - `Bernd Leukert, Head, Products & Innovation and Member of the Executive Board `
First of all, you're absolutely right. We see the traction with S/4HANA Cloud in all segments of the
customers, especially big names. Some of them we are just working on building a reference story.
But what I can share with you that customers in Germany like Fraport, but as well prominent
names like Cirque Du Soleil have selected S/4HANA cloud. And there are bigger names on our
customer list already, as I mentioned.
And in terms of growth, just to add to the positive statement Bill made before. Over the course
of 2017, every quarter in bookings was more than the aggregation of all the quarters we had
before in the history of S/4HANA Cloud. And this shows a clear indication of a hockey stick and
that's why we are so optimistic that S/4HANA Cloud is a major contributor to the bookings 2018.
Q - `Walter H. Pritchard, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Thanks. And then just a follow-up on the M&A – yeah, on the M&A front, Callidus was at the, I'd
say, the higher end of the size of deals you've been talking about with smaller deals. Can you talk
about if you're at a point as – and you would see the M&A activity potentially pick up from here?
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer & Member of the Executive Board `
Yes, Walter. Thank you. You are not going to have an SAP on a shopping spree. This is a tuck-in,
probably the higher end of a tuck-in size, I understand that, but this is not a trend. We decided a
string of pearls strategy for CRM. We executed on that strategy, so if we do things, it'll be small.
Unless something were to be very unusual as an opportunity in the market, we are certainly not
anticipating. So, don't think we're in the M&A market aggressively; we're not.
Q - `Walter H. Pritchard, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer & Member of the Executive Board `
Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
So, let's take the next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. We can take our next question from `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc from Morgan Stanley. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Hi. Afternoon, everybody, and thanks for taking the question. Also, too, just wanted some help in
thinking about the cloud growth over the next few years and the building blocks towards that.
Maybe, first, as a housekeeping, does tuck-in mean that when you integrate Callidus, you won't
be changing the 2020 guide for that, just to clarify there?
And then as we move on to the growth expectations, you're guiding as you expect cloud
business accelerating as we look into 2019 and 2020, but when we look at Business Networks,
that slowed a little bit in 2017. Could you help us what drives that acceleration in the growth? Is it
more S/4HANA public cloud? Is it more the CRM areas accelerating that growth? And then to
follow up on Michael's question to the extent it is S/4HANA, does that then mean licenses come
in weaker in 2019 and 2020, because you're bringing them in on a subscription business? Thank
you.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer & Member of the Executive Board `
Yes. Maybe I'll take those questions and try to answer them. So, first of all, in terms of the Callidus
contribution, we made it clear that our stated outlook does not include Callidus. So, we fully
expect after we've closed the transaction to update our 2018 outlook. We also expect to update
our 2020 ambition, but we will likely do that at the beginning of 2019 when we also have a better
view in the further movement of currency rates. As you know, we have confirmed our guidance
based on the current rate assumptions, even both at significant headwinds but dependent on
where the currencies go throughout the year, we will then make an informed update about this.
In terms of the growth trajectory, you're absolutely right. There, of course, are different dynamics
across our portfolio that I had read. I already shared one of them, namely, the fact that after a
period from a very low base of very strong hyper-growth, the growth rates of our HANA
enterprise cloud business can be expected to come down to a more normalized level, where
they don't exceed any longer the growth rates of our SaaS, PaaS networks business combined,
which is good news for combined margins obviously.
So, the big growth drivers will be our SaaS, PaaS portfolio, and those will be assets like the SAP
cloud platform, which will definitely tremendously benefit from the uptake of Leonardo, of all of
the new capabilities around AI, machine learning, IoT, blockchain, smart analytics and so on and so
forth, which we'll drive via the platform. Then it will certainly come from S/4 cloud no doubt about
this. There is a very strong growth trajectory underway way.The solution is getting rounded out more and more, so we can master more and more
sophisticated workloads through the solution, and therefore, the breadth of the market
opportunity will definitely expand. This will not change any of our underlying assumptions on the
implied software development as we had always shared through 2020. We believe that low to
mid-single-digit declines are a prudent and balanced assumption, and that is remaining
unchanged.
Then of course we have the assets around analytics. Analytics is another business that is starting
to shift fast to the cloud, and we have a very strong offering around that with Analytics Cloud,
which is receiving great attention. Then we have the offerings around IoT and digital supply chain.
IBP in particular is a solution, which I personally see a lot of potential in, and it has already had very
strong growth in 2017 and will, from a much higher base now, continue at a similar growth rate,
and hence be very, very positive for overall growth.
And last but not least, it's the CEC portfolio which has already, without Callidus, performed
extraordinarily well in the cloud. And now, of course, with all of the cross-selling opportunities
driven through Callidus and the bigger depth of the end-to-end process coverage that we can
achieve, there are certainly upsell opportunities, not only for Callidus itself, but also for the rest of
the portfolio.
Q - `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Excellent. Thanks very much.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer & Member of the Executive Board `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We can take our next question from Phil Winslow from Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.
Q - `Philip Winslow, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Hi, guys. Thanks, guys, for taking my question. Just a question for Bill, obviously, earlier this
month, SAP made several announcements in terms of just its HCM strategy with upgrade to
Success and then a sidecar HCM solution for S/4HANA that I think you're going to – extends
forward through for, I think it's 2030. Wondering if you could just give us an update on the HCM
strategy, sort of what these moves meant, and how they factor into that?
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer & Member of the Executive Board `
Yeah, sure, Phil. Nice to talk to you, Phil. I've got Rob Enslin here who oversees that. I'll have him
give you a debrief.
A - `Robert Enslin, President, Cloud Business Group `
Yeah, Phil. So, when you look at the HCM strategy, we're actually pretty excited with the changes
we made from a leadership perspective with Amy Wilson, James Harvey and Greg Tomb taking
over that business about nine months ago. We've made some strategic innovations on the
platform, running SuccessFactors truly on an Apple iOS device now, which makes it really easy to
consume. It's been hugely successful in the market.And then when it comes to the HCM sidecar platform strategy, that was to support our public-
sector clients who need a little bit longer with the on-premise implementations around that
solution. And are focused on the customers in SuccessFactors and I think what you see is a
tremendous uptick in the amount of Employee Central customers we have now. So, we are pretty
excited with where we're headed with SuccessFactors.
Q - `Philip Winslow, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Great. And then I guess, as a follow-up for Bill, just on the sales force right now. Obviously, you
guys highlighted, as Luka did in some of the strengths (58:00) on premise, but they continued to
grow it in the cloud. When you look at the sales force right now and just the structure of it and the
incentive programs, how do you feel just going into 2018 as you also, kind of, think about the
2020 guidance, just sort of how it's structured and how it's compensated and any changes you
might be thinking of?
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer & Member of the Executive Board `
I think it's a great question, Phil. Thank you. And also, I think the prior question with Adam touched
a little bit on what does this mean, this momentum to the cloud, to the core? Is it going to
cannibalize the core?
A couple things. One, the S/4HANA platform is going to go in the cloud, and it'll go in the cloud in
different formations. Some customers will want the crown jewel for their company in a private
cloud, I think you know that. And many of the customers will choose to capitalize those licenses,
because they don't make an ERP decision and essentially, plan on switching it out easily in a
couple years. So, these are core investments to the strategy of companies.
So, I feel very strong about S/4HANA and very strong about our core business. And I wouldn't
worry too much about the way we've guided for possibly single-digits negative because we've
been guiding that way for the last three years and we keep growing it. That's the way our
customers want it and the pipelines are extremely exciting.
As it relates to the cloud, and how I think you could really think about the incentives to the sales
force, we've created an environment where it really matters that those go lives and that
customer success is the most important priority and that's also now reflected heavily in the
compensation for the sales rep, as well as the whole management value chain, so customer for
life is much more a focus on the sales department side.
We didn't take anything away from them, but we made it very clear that we're really interested in
dynamite go lives where customers are raving references. Furthermore, we don't in any way try
to sway the customer from what's right for them based upon comp. We want to make sure the
sales force is fairly compensated no matter which way the customer would like to go in terms of
their cloud decision or whether it's an operating lease or it's a capitalized lease. It doesn't really
matter. What matters is they get the product they need, in the form they need it, and we haven't
let sales compensation dictate anything unnaturally nor will we.
So right now, I'm particularly happy that the core is steady. All the cloud assets are growing really
well. Luka gave you lots of growth engines there, but S/4HANA is the de facto standard in
memory ERP system in the world and it's the best system in the world and it's going to continue
to grow a lot. And these line of business and business network solutions are going to continue to
go extremely well.I think we've done a nice job of keeping the focus on the customer and now really thinking
through this virtual suite concept, so the customer gets what they need at every line of business,
at every boardroom table. The CEO's going to be happy with this strategy, and the management
team around the CEO is going to be happy, because we're focused on the customer's customer.
And by doing that well, our growth will never stand in doubt. We're going into 2018 better than
ever.
Q - `Philip Winslow, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Great. Thanks a lot.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. We have time for two...
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer & Member of the Executive Board `
Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
...more questions.
Operator
Thank you. We can take our next question from `Ross MacMillan, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets from Royal Bank of Canada
Capital Markets. Please go ahead.
Q - `Ross MacMillan, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Thanks so much. Maybe one for Luka. I think, by my math, we're just over 20% of the core ERP
base on S/4HANA. And I just wondered if you could maybe remind us where you'd expect us to
be in terms of conversion of base as we look out to our 2020 target.
And then a follow-up, and I don't know if this is for Bill or Bernd, but your comments on S/4 Cloud
are obviously bullish, and I was just curious whether you think existing customers that use SAP
core ERP on-prem, whether S/4 Cloud could actually start to address those use cases yet, or
whether this is mostly still for subsidiary level or maybe geographically disburse operations? Just
trying to understand how those dovetails with the core S/4HANA strategy. Thanks.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer & Member of the Executive Board `
Yeah. Then, just very quickly, I would definitely expect that by 2020 we should be done with half
of the customer base and having it converted. Let's not forget that with our current S/4 customer
count, we also have net new customers on top, not only installed base conversions, so that
implies that I expect to see now an acceleration of the migration curve, as customers have
waited, in some cases, for the full round out of functional capabilities of S/4HANA. As that work is
now complete, they are starting their programs, so that will be my indication. We would do
something (01:03:29) by 2020, we have not already migrated at least half of our installed base.
A - `Bernd Leukert, Head, Products & Innovation and Member of the Executive Board `
And, Ross, an additional comment before I go to the second question. Don't forget that with the
existing customer, it is not just conversions from the installed base. I mean, we are proud thatbase, and this is healthy as well for the future growth. So, do not just take into account the
existing SAP installed base and make your math coming to the 20%. My number is that it's
significantly below 20%, and this is good for our business.
And, then to come to your second question really on the existing customers whether we can
address their use cases? Absolutely. With the release in Q4 in 2017, we have covered a complete
core ERP functionality. And now, we are going into industry verticals – I mean, the history is
repeating. This is how we built the ERP business. We started with the core. The core is complete
now. And now, we are going into industry verticals. And we are in permanent interaction with the
customers, with the user groups to define priorities, and therefore, consider very strong industry
focus in 2018.
Q - `Ross MacMillan, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thanks a lot. I think we have time...
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer & Member of the Executive Board `
And maybe I'll add just one thing. And I also think there's a great opportunity to take the product
down market. It's been way too easy in the mid-market for some other folks. We're going to
tighten that up. So, it's not just for the large enterprise customers or the subsidiaries, we're going
to take this product down into the mid-market and mix it up a little bit down there and see how it
goes. I think we can handle ourselves pretty well down there.
Q - `Ross MacMillan, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Thanks.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Can we take the final question, please?
Operator
Thank you. We will take our final question from `Gerardus Vos, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. from Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `Gerardus Vos, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. Two, if I may. Just on the go-lives, where are we in kind of Q4,
and how do you expect that to trend in 2018? And then, secondly, a question on the kind of, the
old business licenses down 1% on the quarter, was actually very good kind of volume, 5%. Could
you talk a bit about kind of the regional mix and if you've kind of seen some kind of slippage,
which has been suggested by the kind of volume versus license growth number? Thank you.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer & Member of the Executive Board `
Okay. Then let me cover both questions, actually. Go-live, so a very significant uptick in Q4. So,
we're now at round about 1,500 go-lives, up from 1,000 that we had just reached in Q3, so this is
very positive. And as we have a couple of thousand ongoing implementation projects, I definitely
expect this number to go materially further up in 2018. So, we're adding more and morereferences to that, and that will create a virtuous cycle that will also convince the rest of the
market to move and make the migration.
And in terms of the licenses impact, so we saw positive growth in the Americas, believe it or not,
and we saw it in Asia, which in Asia's case, I think, is less surprising maybe than to some than in
the Americas. And U.S. had positive license growth, which is showing the clearly transformational
strength of our license portfolio especially S/4.
In Europe, we had a slightly negative growth in licenses. But let's not forget – I mean, Europe had
an extraordinary stellar Q4 from a year-over-year perspective there. They had a very tough
compare. And when you take a look at the full year performance in licenses, that was actually
absolutely fine and in line with our projections. But in Q4, they were down a bit, and that also
explains the slightly lower cloud and software growth rate for EMEA as opposed to the other
regions.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer & Member of the Executive Board `
And maybe I could also build on what Luka's saying. It's pretty steady all over the place. Asia had
an unbelievable quarter. We have Jen Morgan now and `Adaire Fox-Martin, Global Customer Operations that are the Co-
Presidents leading Global Customer Operations.
And a question sticking with me earlier, how's Q1 and the comparisons looking? And how's it
shaking out there in the geographies? Maybe we give Adaire a chance to say hi to you all, too.
Adaire?
A - `Adaire Fox-Martin, Global Customer Operations `
Thanks, Bill. I am looking, now we're going into Q1 off the momentum of Q4. We're feeling very
positive about our position in Q1. We have an incredible set of products delivered to us by the
best development team on the planet and a strategy that resonates with every customer that
you talk to, whether they're a multi-national or a general business organization. But Jen and I look
forward to a strong Q1 and a strong year.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Here, here.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer & Member of the Executive Board `
Here, here.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. This concludes the SAP Q4 earnings call, and we look forward to seeing
you on March 6 in New York City at our Hudson Yards office at Capital Markets Day. Thanks so
much for participating, and goodbye.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer & Member of the Executive Board `
Thank you for your interest in SAP, everybody. See you in New York.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thanks a lot. Bye-bye.Operator
Thank you. This concludes today's call. Thank you for your participation, ladies and gentlemen.
You may now disconnect.