Q4 2018 Earnings Call

Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the SAP Quarter Four and Full Year 2018
Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations, Head of Investor
Relations. Please go ahead, sir.
`Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. Good morning or good afternoon. This is `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations, Head of Investor
Relations. Thank you for joining us to discuss our results for the fourth quarter and full year 2018.
I'm joined by our CEO, Bill McDermott; and `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer, our CFO, who will both make opening
remarks on the call today. Also joining us for Q&A are Board Members, Jennifer Morgan and
Adaire Fox-Martin, who together run our Global Customer Organization; Robert Enslin, who runs
Cloud Business Group; and Christian Klein, who leads Intelligent Enterprise Group.
Before we get started, as usual, I want to say a few words about forward-looking statements and
our use of non-IFRS financial measures. Any statements made during this call that are not
historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in the U.S. Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. Words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, may,
plan, project, predict, should, outlook and will and similar expressions as they relate to SAP are
intended to identify such forward-looking statements. SAP undertakes no obligation to publicly
update or revise any forward-looking statements.
All forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause
actual results to differ materially from expectations. The factors that could affect our future
financial results are discussed more fully in SAP's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, the SEC, including SAP's Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2017, filed with the SEC onFebruary 28, 2018. Participants of this call are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these
forward-looking statements which speak only as of their dates.
On our Investor Relations website you can find our quarterly statement and a financial summary
slide deck which are intended to supplement our prepared remarks today and include a
reconciliation from our non-IFRS numbers to IFRS numbers. Unless otherwise noted, all financial
numbers referred to on this conference call are non-IFRS and growth rates and percentage point
changes are non-IFRS, constant currency, year-over-year. The non-IFRS financial measures we
provide should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, the measures of financial
performance prepared in accordance with IFRS.
And finally, we're looking forward to welcoming you to the New York Stock Exchange on February
7, 2019, which is next week, for our Capital Markets Day. Our Senior Executives will discuss our
strategy, growth drivers and some of our customers will share their experience with SAP. We're
looking forward to seeing you again in New York City.
Now with that, I turn things over to our CEO, Bill McDermott.
`William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Stefan, and hello, everyone. I hope you're doing well. What a quarter. What
a year. In our 47th year and beginning my 10th as CEO, there's been one constant. It's all been
about pride in engineering and empathy for the customer. Since 2010, we've doubled or nearly
tripled our addressable market, revenue and operating income. Not to mention, SAP is now the
fastest-growing cloud company at scale in the business software industry.
The true measure of a company goes beyond financial metrics alone. 93% of our employees are
proud to work for SAP. Our colleagues volunteered a quarter million hours and touched 4 million
lives in 2018 alone. While growing the entire size of the company by 10%, we beat our ambition to
shrink our carbon footprint by nearly 5%. Among many others, these make me proud to report
that SAP is a strong, sustainable, profitable growth company.
You've heard me say trifecta in past quarters to describe our growth in three key areas. Well, last
year, SAP delivered double-digit growth in five key pillars of our business. You could call it our
pentafecta. I'm going to give you a few stats from Q4 and the full year.
Cloud revenue grew 40% in Q4 and 38% for the full year. Cloud and software revenue, up 11% in
Q4, 10% for the full year. Cloud and software new order entry, up 18% in Q4, 14% for the full year.
Total revenue, 13% in Q4 and plus 11% for the full year. Our operating profit was also up an
impressive 10% for the full year.
As you know, SAP raised our guidance on multiple occasions in 2018 and with these results, we hit
or exceeded all of those raised metrics. Our customers, employees, partners and products are in
total alignment to deliver the intelligent enterprise. By any measure, 2018 was a major success for
the company. Our commitment for 2019 is to best our best once again.
We continue to move the company where our customers need us to go. If you look at the macro
environment right now, SAP's strategy is uniquely suited for the moment. CEOs are focused on
delivering four key experiences: customer, product, brand and employee. With the acquisition of
Qualtrics, which closed last week, SAP now combines market leadership and experience
management with end-to-end operational power in 25 industries.
And why does this matter? Businesses are losing $1.6 trillion every year when their customersbeing disappointed. SAP has engineered our portfolio to bridge this gap because a 5%
improvement in retention is equivalent to a 95% improvement in profit. After all, it's five times
more expensive to get a new customer than to keep the one you already have.
Experience has never been more important. With Qualtrics, we give businesses of every size the
human sentiment about their experience. The business has never had this insight before. We call
this experience X-data. With SAP, that sentiment becomes operational outcomes like better
experiences, higher retention and faster growth. This is O or O-data. By combining X and O data
SAP will help businesses revolutionize how they compete in the experience economy.
So what's the takeaway? Remember your Xs and Os and don't be surprised if I sign my e-mails
XO, XO Bill. It's not just because I like you, although I do. This is the only strategy for SAP as we
look at our bright future and we know it's where the world is going. Experience management is
the future and SAP owns it.
Because we consistently embrace new innovation, our underlying business model is rock solid.
SAP has only winning businesses in the portfolio. Every strategic asset in the company is growing.
And looking back, the belief was enterprise customers would only want to rent software. Well,
SAP embraced the software-as-a-service business model early on and we're growing the cloud
faster than competition, and that includes Oracle, Salesforce.com, and Workday to name a few.
We also have more cloud users than any company in our industry, 180 million and growing fast. It's
also why there's 3 trillion in commerce running through our business networks. Just to give you a
sense of scale, a wonderful company like Amazon has 250 billion running through its network.
Now, some customers will choose to buy the software, capitalize it and amortize it over its
lifetime value. What you're seeing in these results, SAP was right to protect customer choice.
Even as cloud has overtaken the license, which some skeptics openly doubted would happen, our
core business is rock solid, returning to software growth in Q4 and ahead of everyone's
expectations for the full year.
When you look at the business mix, the diversification of SAP derisks us from many of the macro
challenges facing other companies. Customers can run on premise, in a private cloud, or in the
public cloud. It's their choice. SAP's business model has been built to deliver the promise.
The same applies as companies shift their infrastructure away from old legacy databases and
data centers. SAP has strong partnerships with Microsoft, Google, Amazon, Alibaba and others to
embrace this value creation opportunity. Our growing ecosystem shows the wide appeal of SAP's
HANA architecture as the de facto business platform for businesses of all sizes. Overall, this is a
business model built for scale, growth and resilience.
The SAP portfolio is beyond compare: database, applications, Business Networks, Cloud Platform
for integration, AI, reshaping every business process and now Qualtrics to build the bridge
between experience management and the intelligent enterprise. We actually couldn't be happier
with the state of the company. The results showcase our ultimate pride: the customer who gave
us their trust. You're seeing brands like Prada, Volvo, Dyson, Uber, Cargill, Sonos, Volkswagen,
Hitachi, Infosys, Haribo, Verizon Wireless, JetBlue Airways and many others standardizing on SAP.
They're choosing solutions from C/4HANA to S/4HANA, SAP Cloud Platform, Analytics Cloud, SAP
SuccessFactors and total spend management with Ariba, Fieldglass and Concur. SAP Leonardo
not only powers advances in machine learning, we're already pushing forward with 5G and the
edges of quantum computing. This is a company that never gets stuck in corners, we actually see
around them.I'll leave you with a few key points to highlight our confidence in the road ahead. The legacy
classification of addressable markets and the enterprise is no longer valid. Experience
management is the category most relevant to the CEO agenda. Research consistently shows the
trust between people and institutions is in steep decline. We will help our customers rebuild it
one experience at a time. The highly-synergistic combination of X plus O will elevate our entire
portfolio, differentiating every solution we offer to every line of business leader in the enterprise.
Our geographic coverage model is stronger than ever. SAP is the only true global business
software company. We now have 425,000 customers and counting worldwide. We were ahead
of our competition in China. We made it our second home. We continue to invest in the future of
this amazing dynamic economy. We'll continue to take share from our competition, especially with
experience management redefining 20th century categories as also-rans.
Our 2019 guidance sets us up nicely to once again meet the opportunities before us and I can
only remind you, our track record shows that SAP is seldom satisfied to only meet any business
objective. Even as we look back on the past 10 years, we're even hungrier for the next 10 years.
We expect to grow cloud revenue more than 3x, three times, reaching more than $35 billion in
total revenue by 2023. In case there are any skeptics out there, SAP will remain the fastest-
growing business software company in the cloud at scale.
I remember the early days in 2010, since then, piece by piece, this company has been
systematically transformed. We made big promises and we've kept those promises. We evolved
the business model even as we protected our maintenance base. We brought companies
together and created a unified culture focused on helping the world run better and improving
people's lives.
This company takes nothing for granted. We fight for every inch with a warrior spirit. We're ready
to seize our latest, greatest opportunity. Not because it's easy, but because it's hard. We say the
best run SAP for a reason, because we're so proud to help them be the best. Now, we'll do it
with market-leading solutions that no competitor has. X plus O is the essential equation for
winning in this experience economy. Nearly 100,000 women and men are fired up and ready to
go.
I'll hand the call over to our CFO, `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer, who will discuss 2018's performance in detail and
then we will answer your questions. Luka, over to you.
`Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thank you very much, Bill. This is now my 20th earnings call and I'm extremely proud of the
progress that we have made since my first call in early 2014. In the last four years in particular, we
have consistently met or beat all financial guidance metrics by raising them multiple times.
In 2018, I'm excited to say that we once again kept our promise. We closed out the year with a
strong Q4. We set bold goals for 2018 and we hit or exceeded every single one of them. Cloud
revenue grew by close to 40%, much faster than our main competitors. We had double-digit
growth in cloud and software total revenue and operating profit.
Our cloud backlog now exceeds €10 billion for the first time ever, growing at 30% year-over-year,
coming off a very strong comparison. This high level of committed future cloud revenue will
ensure that our strong cloud momentum continues. SAP once again successfully navigated the
evolving economic and political environment.Now to our results in more detail. Both our cloud and software and total revenue comfortably
exceeded the high end of the guidance range, even though we raised these targets three times
in 2018. Cloud certainly was a big driver of this. For the full year, new cloud bookings were up 28%
to €1.8 billion. Our consistent stellar growth has doubled our new cloud business in three years
only. And remember, this metric doesn't include our pay-as-you-go businesses within Ariba,
Concur and Fieldglass, as well as the SAP Cloud Platform.
Our cloud revenues surged 38% for the full year, exceeding €5 billion in cloud revenue and
achieving our target which was raised three times this year as well. Cloud revenue has, for the
first time, surpassed software revenue in full year 2018, as we had predicted four years ago. The
exceptional cloud performance was driven by the continued solid growth from SuccessFactors
and our Business Network Solutions as well as exceptional growth from high potential solutions
like S/4HANA Cloud, C/4HANA, digital supply chain and SAP Cloud Platform just to name a few.
In Q4, our reported software revenue was up 1%, clearly beating market and our own
expectations. Note that our Q4 constant currency software result was up 8%, but this was
materially impacted by hyperinflation in Argentina and Venezuela. Together with our ever resilient
maintenance business, our core software and support continues to be rock solid with 2% growth
on a reported basis in Q4.
We are also proud to report double-digit cloud and software revenue growth for the third straight
quarter, powering our full year growth to more than 10% and thus, ending the year 1 percentage
point higher than the top end of the updated guidance range. In addition, the combined order
entry of our new cloud and software license business was up 14% for the full year, as well
exceeding €10 billion and almost 50% bigger than three years ago.
In Q4, our new business even accelerated, growing by 18% year-over-year. This clearly illustrates
our powerful overall momentum and our ability to grow new business well ahead of total
revenue.
With this, let me come to the regional results for the full year. Well, we had a very solid
performance in the EMEA region, with cloud and software revenue increasing 8%, cloud
subscriptions and support revenue grew by 43%. Germany, Spain, the Middle East and Africa all
had strong cloud revenue. The UK and Italy had a strong year in software revenue.
We had a strong performance in the Americas region. Cloud and software revenue increased by
13%. Cloud subscriptions and support revenue increased by 33% with Brazil and Mexico being
highlights. The U.S. had a solid performance in both cloud revenue and in software revenue.
In the APJ region, cloud and software revenue grew by 10%. Cloud subscriptions and support
revenue was in particular exceptional and grew by 53%. Greater China and Japan had both
strong cloud revenue. Greater China and India had a strong year in software revenue.
Now let me come to profitability and gross margins for the year. We are really proud to see that
the gross margins of all our business models were up in 2018. Our software and support gross
margin was 87%, up 10 basis points. Our services gross margin was up 30 basis points to 24%
and remains among best-in-class. Our overall cloud gross margin expanded 60 basis points,
reaching 63% in 2018, as all of our cloud business models were up.
Cloud gross margin for the Business Network, which is our most profitable cloud, increased by 1.1
percentage points and reached 78%. Our private cloud gross margin improved to 14% in 2018.
And as you know, we continued to strengthen our strategic partnerships with the hyperscalers toreduce our incremental investment in infrastructure. We expect this to further improve the private
cloud margin going forward.
The public cloud, or SaaS/PaaS gross margin increased by 2.4 percentage points and reached
59%. This improvement for 2018 was primarily driven by top line growth. Looking forward, we
expect to realize the benefits from our platform convergence in the first half of 2019, with further
acceleration in the second half. This will set us up with full scalability going into 2020 and beyond.
Our mix shift to cloud continued in 2018 and impacted our cloud and software margin by 1.2
percentage points. However, our cloud and software margin in aggregate only declined by 90
basis points. The combination of strong top line, continued cloud gross margin improvement and
operational discipline led to double-digit operating profit growth at constant currencies for the
year. We achieved our target for the full year with almost € 7.5 billion in operating profit after
again raising our target three times in 2018.
As a result, we stabilized our operating margin in 2018. And I recognize this may be lower than
some of you were expecting. It is also lower than we expected, but it is for the right reasons. Our
cloud, and in particular, our services businesses developed far better than expected. And while
each of them is a great business that contributed a much larger share of operating profit this year
than in the past, they still weighed on our overall operating margin.
Now let me turn to taxes and EPS. For the full year 2018, the IFRS effective tax rate increased by
7.5 percentage points to 27%, this was nevertheless at the lower end of our stated guidance
range. The non-IFRS effective tax rate increased by 3.6 percentage points to 26.4% which was
even slightly lower than our guidance range.
And please note the effective tax rate in 2017 was unusually low due to onetime tax benefits from
the U.S. tax reform and an IP transfer to SAP SE. For the full year, IFRS earnings per share
increased by 2% to €3.42 and non-IFRS earnings per share decreased by 2% to €4.35. In the prior
year, our EPS benefited from extraordinarily high Sapphire Ventures investment gains and the
unusually low effective tax rate as previously mentioned.
Now let me come to cash flow and capital expenditure. Our full year operating cash flow
decreased to €4.3 billion. That decline was mainly due to higher tax share-based compensation
and insurance payments compared to last year. Please also keep in mind our cash flow is affected
by a currency headwind we have faced throughout the year. Free cash flow for the full year
declined as well due to the previously announced additional CapEx for 2018. However, we were
able to successfully manage our CapEx which was less than what we had planned for at the
beginning of last year.
For our 2019 outlook, and the updated 2020 ambition, please refer to our quarterly statement
published earlier today. We also introduced the 2023 ambition as mentioned already by Bill. As
you will have seen in our quarterly statement, for the first time since 2015, we are executing a
company-wide restructuring program this year.
There are two objectives here. One, we will further simplify our structures and processes; and
two, we'll ensure our resource allocation including the right mix of skills and qualifications matches
our strategic growth areas. The cost savings from the program will fuel investments in these
areas and we expect to exit 2019 with more than 100,000 employees around the world.
Before closing, I wanted to talk briefly about our sustainability story and a few of our key
nonfinancial metrics. In 2009, SAP embedded sustainability in its long-term strategy. This is when
we started our journey towards becoming a role model of a sustainable company and we havemade great progress. At the same time, there is still a lot of potential for us to make a
difference, especially by enabling our customers to run better with our solutions.
We remain committed to dedicate our extensive resources, our people and technology to help
address the world's biggest challenges and help achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
For example, we aspire for a world of zero waste supported by our digital supply chain solutions.
Looking to our nonfinancial metrics, women in management increased to 25.7%, a slight increase
year-over-year. Employee retention remained in our target range at 93.9%. And I'm happy to
report that our greenhouse gas emissions dropped to 310 kilotons below our target of 333
kilotons and here, being below a target is actually a good thing. We are well on our way to
becoming carbon neutral by 2025.
So to summarize, we remain a beacon for growth and stability. With cloud backlog exceeding €10
billion for the first time, cloud revenue exceeding €5 billion for the first time, software and
support remaining ever resilient, and total revenue and operating profit up double-digit at
constant currencies. This stellar business momentum sets us up perfectly for continued strong
profitable growth. All of this makes me very confident that we will deliver on our 2019 targets and
our 2020 and 2023 ambitions.
Thank you and we will now be happy to take your questions.
`Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you, sir.
`Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
We can now start the Q&A session.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you, sir. We'll pause for just a moment to allow all an opportunity to signal. Going to take
our first question from `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.
Q - `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Hi. Good afternoon, and thanks for taking the question. The first one was just on the 2020
guidance. You added €200 million to that guide at the top end and €600 million at the low end. I
think investors would have been expecting Qualtrics alone to add above €600 million in that year.
So could you maybe just help us out, is it Qualtrics that you're assuming slightly slower growth for
over the next couple of years, or is there another area of the business that you've become a little
bit more cautious on versus the previous 2020 guide?
And then maybe just a housekeeping point for Luka on the IFRS change in 2018. I think at Q3, you
were expecting that to be €200 million and it looks like it's ended up at €400 million. Could you
maybe just help us understand why that change and would that mean that the licenses and the
EBIT would have been kind of flattish to slightly down ex that benefit in the year? Thank you.A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
So maybe I'll start with the IFRS question to bring that out of the way because I think that is really
the wrong way of thinking about that change. You're right that we've always been clear that there
will be a benefit, especially to expenses, around the accounting change and indeed, we have
seen such a benefit, slightly higher than what we had expected. I think we ended up with around
about €240 million, but the other half, I think, is a theoretical math exercise.
Yes, we are reporting a benefit from the introduction of IFRS 15 on the revenue side of a bit more
than €150 million. But to be clear, I fully expect that this revenue would have happened either way,
because our sales force is very much aware of how to structure transactions in order to optimize
the revenue performance under whatever metric.
To give you a concrete example, two of our largest deals that we had in Q4 of 2018 were so-
called global enterprise agreements, GEAs, that in the past would have resulted in ratable
revenue recognition over a number of years. And now under IFRS 15, you have a larger share of
upfront revenue that is generated from them.
Under old accounting, it is close to certain that we would have seen these deals as well, but
probably as a so-called UDD, or limited – unlimited transaction, which by the way would have
been less healthy for SAP because we would have missed any kind of further order entry for
outer years that we'll now get under a global enterprise agreement.
So I would really see the benefit on the revenue side as fully theoretical. On the expense side,
you are right that we had a benefit of slightly above the €200 million that we had originally seen.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
And, Adam, I would just give you an update. We've had a kind of a reputation now, three times
last year raising and beating, so there's no reason why we don't have the winning culture here to
do it again. So that's just a macro comment. I want to give you a quick update on Qualtrics since
you mentioned them.
When we took on Qualtrics, the idea was a $575 million cloud company end of 2019, I can tell you
that they came out of 2018 at $500 million, which was beyond their own expectation. I can tell you
that they're growing at 45% and I can tell you that they are cash flow positive. And I can also say
that there is no other company with that profile in the marketplace. With the synergy of Qualtrics
and SAP combining the experience data with the operational data from the SAP Intelligent
Enterprise, we think we have something incredibly special here, and it will make archaic slides of
CRM market share look silly. So we're ready to get to work and we have tremendous optimism
and motivation in our company to take the hill.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Okay, thank you.
Q - `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
That's very helpful. Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's take the next question, please.Operator
Certainly. We're moving to a question from `Michael Briest, Analyst, UBS Ltd. from UBS. Please go ahead. Your line is
open.
Q - `Michael Briest, Analyst, UBS Ltd. `
Yeah, thank you. Good afternoon. Luka, just on the cloud gross margin. Can you talk about how
Qualtrics changes your ambitions in 2020? Maybe looking out to 2023 now, you have previously
said that the leverage should kick in after 2020, where would you expect cloud margins to reach
by then?
And then just on the cloud bookings number. I appreciate it doesn't capture the activity in the
Business Network, but the growth there of sort of low-20s of constant currency, I guess Callidus
was a help to that, so perhaps even in the teens. Can you maybe sort of explain how that
deceleration occurred and what you expect for 2019? Thanks.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I can start and certainly everyone else feel free to chime in. And let me start with the notion
of a deceleration of our cloud business. I can't (31:05) follow this at all. Of course, there can be
from one quarter to another changes and fluctuations in how our order entry comes together. It
was actually up to 18% growth combined between software and cloud in Q4 and 14% for the full
year, so Q4 was a particularly strong one. But it had a different composition, that's true. We saw
licenses returning to growth even without the hyperinflation impacts and on the flip side, cloud
was a little bit lower.
But you need to take a look at the full year performance which was up 28%. If you then add the
backlog growth to it, you see that we have a very, very healthy business here, where the order
entry in 2018 comfortably will carry us towards reaching our targets for the mid-term, so nothing
at all to be worried about here.
When it comes to the cloud gross margins, certainly Qualtrics has a very efficient platform and
they run at very high on gross margins, actually far above the 80% mark, which will of course help
us particularly on the SaaS/PaaS margin progress. However, having said that, we retain our
ambition for the entire portfolio that we have had all along.
I know that some in the markets have had concerns on whether SAP will be in a position to end up
at the 71% weighted gross margin performance in the cloud, given where we are at the moment,
which is only at 63%. But remember, there is a big bump coming our way now with the platform
convergence that we're looking to achieve and complete by the end of Q1, which will make room
for substantial run rate savings outside of Qualtrics in our established portfolio which will carry us
to that 71% target. And that remains our stated target and objective for 2020.
Going beyond, of course, our objective remains to increase the cloud margin further beyond that,
and we will update markets in due course about our ambitions in this respect.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
And I think we got about €10 billion in unbilled cloud revenue at this point in the bank and also
about 65% of the revenues of the company which are totally predictable. And as I recall, that was
the number one thing that the investment community was very interested in, not only the cloud
growth, but also a healthy backlog and predictable revenues.A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
And, Michael, you're absolutely right to press on the margin in terms of the cloud operations
within SAP to improve and to get to the benchmarks that we have seen from the external cloud
companies. Actually, I consider that low hanging fruit and we're chasing it.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. And perhaps just a final comment here that complements what Bill has been saying. Our
average contract duration in the cloud has actually been further up. We are now at 3.8 years for
an average initial contract lifecycle. And that, together with the backlog statements, should tell
you one more thing, and that is while our new cloud bookings are based on ACV, annualized
contract values, we actually see a large number of contracts that have very attractive ramp-up
curves that will bring us even better returns for the longer term. So this is a very, very healthy
position to be in and one that makes us very confident around our targets.
Q - `Michael Briest, Analyst, UBS Ltd. `
Thank you very much.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's move to the next question, please.
Operator
Yes. Our next question is from `Kirk Materne, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC from Evercore ISI. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Kirk Materne, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC `
Hi. Yes, thanks very much and congrats on the fiscal year end. Maybe I'll start with Luka. Luka, just
on the 2023 sort of outlook, I realize it's a long ways out, you mentioned sort of operating profit
growth, but one of the questions we continually get is about free cash flow growth for you all.
And I realize there's a lot of moving parts with stock-based comp and now this restructuring
charge. But is there any reason why free cash flow wouldn't sort of accelerate ahead of operating
profit as those factors normalize for you all? Can you just talk a little bit about how we should
think about free cash flow growth in the context of sort of your longer term guidance?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Absolutely. You're spot on. Absolutely, free cash flow should actually accelerate beyond our
performance on profit because, as you said, we are becoming more efficient in terms of our
capital expenditure. We definitely are seeing – already in 2018, we ended up below where we
planned to be. We see that in 2019 and beyond we will basically remain at this level. So any kind
of leverage that we gain from our business operations should flow through on the cash flow side.
At the same time, we still have, also, room for further improvement in terms of the operating
cash flow leverage. Our DSO was slightly down year-over-year, but just by less than one day. I
think we have still further room to go down from, let's say, the current almost 70 days to probablylow 60s at least, which should give us a further positive leverage, and that's what we are working
on.
You're right, we have significant special effects at the moment, certainly the restructuring as well
as some of the increased share-based compensation that we will have for 2019, but those should
dissipate quickly and make room for definitely superior cash flow returns.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
And maybe I could just add one thing. When some companies talk about restructuring, they're
like tired companies dealing with head count problems. We're talking about getting the necessary
skills on top of the growth opportunities. It's a HANA world. We're running away with the cloud.
Experience management's on fire and everything that can be in the artificial intelligence and
machine learning category that's built into our apps, we're driving it with all we have. So what
we're doing is optimizing a workforce to actually increase the growth of the company, just to be
very clear.
Q - `Kirk Materne, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC `
And thanks, Bill. And just to sneak one last one in for Bill. Bill, you mentioned the strong end of the
year the Qualtrics team had. As you think about this experience management category, I know
you're leaving Qualtrics independent, but how are you all working together in the field to sort of
raise, I think, their profile probably internationally and sort of bring both the teams together as
you're having these larger digital transformation conversations with customers? Thanks.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
It's a great question. I'm grateful for it. When I leave Germany, I'm headed to the United States
and one of my first stops is going to be Silicon Slopes where I'm keynoting a major Qualtrics
event with thousands of people. So here's what we're doing.
We have a very experienced executive board colleague, Robert Enslin, that runs the Cloud
Business Group within SAP. As you know, he has SuccessFactors, Ariba, Fieldglass and basically
the C/4HANA initiative for the company, okay? We are redefining the whole CRM space with
C/4HANA, and we're going after that market and we're growing it in triple digits.
Experience management has already been infused into our whole company as the biggest
transformational idea in the culture. Every single sales representative globally has it in their bag.
We now have complete synergy between Qualtrics and the entire SAP sales force. So if they're
growing 45% year-over-year without us, what are they going to do when you put 15,000
customer-facing assets next to them? This is probably the biggest growth opportunity I've ever
seen in my career.
So rest assured, we will be a major force to deal with in CRM, with the C/4HANA initiative, but
even more when you can broaden the conversation to experience management, because now
you're touching a company's products. You're activating their workforce. You're moving their
brand. And you're really touching everything operationally with everything on the experience side
and it's truly breathtaking.
One of my favorite examples is JetBlue. They had very good on-time arrival for their passengers,
yet their customer satisfaction wasn't where they wanted it to be. So operationally, the systems
of record couldn't tell them that, but when they looked at the experience of their customers, they
could quickly locate, ah, the call center's the issue. We're just not handling the customer rightwhen they call in. So you connected the operational data and the experience data, solved a major
issue for a major company and they're off and running now with Net Promoter Scores that are
very high, very happy customers.
So this is totally transformational. Think about the SAP Digital Boardroom now, not only having the
operational data for an enterprise but now the experience data for all things that are moving
outside the enterprise. This is really big.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you.
Q - `Kirk Materne, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC `
Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Let's move to the next question, please.
Operator
Certainly. The next question is from John King from Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead. Your line is
open.
Q - `John P. King, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Yeah, good afternoon. Thank you for taking the questions. I've got two actually. Actually, the first
one was on the back of your comments, Bill, around the experience opportunity you have there.
Do you feel as though you've got all of the pieces in the jigsaw there, or can you see further
acquisitions you may need to make or got any (41:23) developments that perhaps you want to do
in order to round out that offering?
And then second one was going to be on the free cash flow for Luka, following up there. Can you
maybe just give us a guidance for what you'd expect free cash flow to look like in 2019? I know
there's a few one-offs that dragged down 2018 quite significantly below. So I'm just trying to work
out, well, I guess how much of that was a one-off and therefore what the real underlying base
should be as we look into 2019. Thank you.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure, John. Well, maybe I'll open it up. And first of all, I want to say that the trust that I have and
that SAP has with all of you can't be overstated in its importance. And last year, I know we
acquired Qualtrics a little off of what you expected for a large-scale acquisition but don't forget,
they filed an S-1, they were going public the week we acquired them and there was no way of
knowing we could have possibly been successful in that endeavor. Knock wood, I'm really happy
for all of us we were, but don't think in any way we had that one in the bag. That was a unique
development and a great opportunity, and we seized it. And hopefully you know and trust in
transparency, we're always upfront with you.
We don't have any big ones on the docket right now. We have what we need. You know we're
good capital allocators, everything we've ever bought outperformed the business case in the
boardroom. So Qualtrics has what they need organically. They have plenty of things going on and
right now. We're not looking at any business cases in the strategy room, similarly, neither doesSAP. So what you see is kind of what you get. And I believe if we do something, it'll be very tuck-in
in its orientation and nothing sizable or scalable for you to be concerned with. Luka?
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. And on the free cash flow 2019 side, so very clear, our underlying free cash flow will
significantly improve, before restructuring-related cash outflows and share-based compensation
outflows that we will see increase because of the acquisition of Qualtrics and the share-based
compensation that we are taking over from that. But otherwise, in particular, due to the
moderation of the CapEx needs, there will be a significant increase.
Now considering those two factors in aggregate, I expect both operating cash flow and free cash
flow to be broadly in line with what we have seen in 2018, to then make room as of 2020 for
significant increases, but that is really driven by the restructuring as well as by the share-based
compensation. All other elements, I don't expect similar one-offs as we have seen them in 2018.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Okay, thank you. Let's take the next question, please.
Operator
Certainly. The next question is from `Gerardus Vos, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. from Barclays. Please go ahead. Your line is
open.
Q - `Gerardus Vos, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. Just quickly on the revenue. What have you implied for kind of
licenses in 2019 and 2020 and perhaps kind of beyond? Then secondly, coming back on the cash
flow and particularly on the share-based compensation, how much of the increase in 2019 versus
2018 is driven by the share price, and how much is by more outstanding options? And then would
you consider a share settlement instead of a kind of cash settlement in the kind of future, given
the kind of volatility that we've seen on this line here? Thank you.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So let me peel those back from the back to the front. In terms of share-based
compensation programs and moving them to equity-settled programs, I think that's something
that we will need to very carefully weigh because that comes with disadvantages. For example, in
many countries, equity-settled programs would not be tax deductible whereas they are when
they are cash settled.
What we will do is definitely increase the level of transparency that we provide around our free
cash flow in terms of what is driven by share-based compensation. So you can expect when you
visit us next week in New York, that I will provide some more transparency around that.
In that same light, in terms of the impact from share-based compensation for 2018 and 2019, I
can give you a rough ballpark figure here in the sense that 2018 was affected by roughly €140
million higher share-based compensation expense. In 2019, we are rather looking at something
like €300 million on top. That gives you a ballpark range, but please more exact ideas will follow
with the Capital Markets Day.
And in terms of the license implied guidance, when you make the math, I think you will see that
for 2019 and 2020, we still consider implied mid-single-digit declines of licenses and then for theouter years, it would start to increase. We think that is a prudent and balanced assumption and
it's broadly supported by the trajectory that we have seen in 2018. At least it does not leave us
exposed in that sense and there certainly is scope for possible better development as we have
seen it in Q4.
But we want to be prudent and want to make sure that we hit each and every one of our outlook
metrics, which is also what could explain some of the perceived conservatism that you have
highlighted in your notes. But I think it's good, especially when you look out five years into the
future, that you're not getting too far ahead of yourself.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, one thing I think that Luka mentioned that's very noteworthy is the license performance in
2018. If you remember, at the end of Q3, we told you we would deliver our full year guidance with
the on-premise software license, and I think to probably the relief of many of you, we not only
delivered that, but we beat it quite handily.
So when we do these guidance calls with you, we take them extremely seriously. But I do want to
reiterate, SAP has an ever-strong core business and SAP is growing faster than all the others in
the cloud. And we have, in each case that we have done these guidance calls with you, done
what we said we were going to do. So I wouldn't, from quarter-to-quarter, maybe this year, fuss
too much about one metric or another from a 90-day cycle. I think if you looked at it semiannually
or annually, you'd be very happy with SAP, and I hope that you agree with that and reward SAP in
kind.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. We take the next question, please.
Operator
Certainly. This question is from Phil Winslow from Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.
Q - `Philip Winslow, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Hey, guys, and thanks for taking my question. Just want to focus back on the restructuring or, as
Luka called it, the fitness program. Obviously, we talk a lot on this call about sort of the
technology side and where the focus is going to be. A question for Bill here on the go-to-market.
When you think about sort of the fitness program and the plan for growth going forward, how do
you envision sort of the go-to-market alignment or capacity changing going forward? Any sort of
change in focus versus what we've been seeing? Any sort of change in size, capacity, alignment?
Some more detail there would be great.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Phil. I think you should think of it this way. This structure of the go-to-market
strategy for SAP is very similar to what you've grown accustomed to because it works. What
you're going to see us do is put more emphasis on the big growth opportunities and get the
skills in the jobs that we need to truly transform the way our customers serve their customers.
So think of the business network and the spend management context as something we're going
to double down on. Think of C/4HANA, our flagship CRM end-to-end offering as something we're
going to double down on. Think of experience management as something we're going torevolutionize not only SAP, but the entire industry on, and that includes the partner networks that
go along with it.
Think about our core business as much more focused on the value drivers. When you think about
HANA as the ultimate platform for a modern enterprise, you think about what we can do with
HANA as database as a service, you think about Leonardo with predictive AI and deep machine
learning and IoT. We're going to double down on these things and we're going to be in every
industry and we're going to be in every market where we know we can get leverage.
One such example is China. Everyone keeps talking about the slowdown in China. You're talking
about the world's second largest economy growing at 6% instead of 6.6% or 6.7%. It's still minting
(50:37) countries every year in terms of its size and scale, and we happen to have an enormous
advantage in China.
So I think of experience management engineering. You're very familiar with our value engineering
story as a way to tie together the X-data and the O-data to rethink business processes across
our companies that we serve in all the industries we serve them and having the people that have
the domain expertise in the real leading information technology areas that our customers care
about.
And what we're doing with the fitness program is we're giving people a chance to do some early
retirement in countries where we need to do that. And in countries where we don't have the
skillset that we want, we're obviously going to compromise a nice agreement with our
employees to treat them very fairly.
They tend to show up in the ecosystem or in customers where they can be highly friendly to SAP,
and we're going to hire the best minds in the world. Because you know what, if you look at SAP as
an employer of choice, we're in a pole position now. We have an extremely motivated, loyal
workforce and we're considered one of the great companies in the world to work for. We should
get the very best talent.
Now keep in mind when I say this, we're going to be very careful. When we hire, we know what
you guys want. You want the growth and you want the margin. I think we can do both.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's take the next question...
Q - `Philip Winslow, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Got it. All right. Thanks, Bill.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Phil.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. The next question...
Operator
Our next question, sir, is from Charlie Brennan from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead. Your line is
open.Q - `Charles Brennan, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Great. Thanks very much. Can I just come back on Phil's question on restructuring from a different
angle? Specifically, I've had a number of client conversations today asking me whether we should
view this as a one-off program or something more sustainable. If I just look back across my
model, we saw reasonable restructuring back in 2015, looks like there was a smaller program in
2017 and now a bigger program again in 2019. Is some kind of restructuring, do you think, the
norm every other year for SAP and should we be thinking about that when we put our cash flow
forecast together for the future? Thank you.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
The answer to that is simple. No, you shouldn't. And in fact, SAP in its history has had, I think, only
three programs of this type. One was directly in the financial crisis. The other one was in 2015 and
this one is now four years later. So, no need to reflect major restructuring activity on a per annum
basis. Clear no.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
And we were – go ahead.
Q - `Charles Brennan, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
I was going to ask a separate question so please finish.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
No, no, I was just saying on a per capita basis, it would be similar when you think about the size
and scale of the company to the one we did in 2015. I want to remind everyone that we didn't
have any morale issues. In fact, the workforce understood the high performance culture we're
driving here. We expect a similar outcome this time. When we cut the deal with the Executive
Board on this particular fitness initiative, everybody was looking at this with a five-year time
horizon in mind. This was the gateway to kicking us up a notch in terms of really taking advantage
of the market opportunity.
Q - `Charles Brennan, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Great. Thank you. And just a very quick follow-up, you mentioned the platform convergence on
the cloud side and the initiatives there to improve margins. You were originally expecting that
program to end at the end of 2018. It sounds like that's now slipping to Q1. Can you just remind
us of the reasons for that slippage and is there any danger that, that continues to slip into Q2 and
Q3 and undermine your margin efforts this year? Thank you.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
No, not at all. And to be very clear, we are exactly where we want and need to be. My comment is
around the fact – I think we've covered that on one of the previous calls – that the maintenance
agreements for our third-party legacy databases that we are replacing are ending as of end of
March 2019, and that's why you will see the run rate benefit from those initiatives only starting as
of Q2 2019. But that should not imply that we are off track in terms of finishing the replacement.
That hopefully clarifies.
Q - `Charles Brennan, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `Perfect. That's useful. Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's take next question, please.
Operator
Certainly. Our next question is from `Mohammed Moawalla, Analyst, Goldman Sachs International from Goldman Sachs. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Mohammed Moawalla, Analyst, Goldman Sachs International `
Great. Thank you very much. I have two questions. First one, Luka, I may have missed your answer
earlier, but if I look at the quantum of the cloud gross margin expansion in Q4, that was lesser
than what we saw in sort of Q2 and Q3. Can you just remind us for that and how you expect that
to evolve? Obviously, you mentioned the expiry of the maintenance agreements and what's sort
of the shape of that.
And then second one for Bill. Obviously in Q4 you had a pretty strong top line performance, as
you engage with customers in sort of the boardroom around your investment decisions with
potentially some GDP macro slowdown, can you kind of help us understand SAP's sort of product
portfolio set and in terms of how discretionary versus mission-critical some of your customers'
investments are around your software and then ultimately kind of driving your growth ambitions?
Thank you.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I can start quickly on the gross margins. Just to confirm our target for 2020 weighted gross
margins of low 70s, basically 71% remains in place. In order to achieve this, of course, the
SaaS/PaaS margins outside of Business Networks need to have a meaningful increase of a couple
of percentage points already in 2019 and then the remaining jump in 2020.
This will be achieved by the convergence program. So you will see a more natural progress in line
with what you have seen in the first few quarters in 2018 at the beginning of the year and then as
of Q2, you will see a jump in the productivity in the SaaS/PaaS business area. Whereas on the
Infrastructure-as-a-Service business, and on the Business Networks business, you should see a
continued trend to increase in line with the trajectory that you have seen in 2018 on the HANA
Enterprise Cloud, obviously, with a larger progress because there we're coming from 14% and on
the Business Networks, we're already at 78%. And so in 2019, we will already be extremely close
to the 80% and then in 2020, we will actually move above 80% for Business Networks. That gives
you a high level idea of how this will unfold.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
And thank you, Mohammed, I have the second part of your question, which is the mission-critical
nature of SAP. First of all, having spent last week in Davos, I can tell you when you talk to the
CEOs that are running big companies, they're not pessimistic at all. They might see a slightly
reduced level of GDP growth, but they see growth and most of them are feeling pretty good
about their businesses, just for the record, and that was a universal comment.
In terms of SAP's positioning, database, applications, cloud, business networks, now experience
management, we have the high-value mission-critical stack that runs companies on an end-to-end
basis. And I think what makes SAP so resilient, if you're in tough times, whether you're changinggovernance and configurations to accommodate Brexit, or you're rethinking supply chains to deal
with the trading environment conflict with the U.S. and China, all of this involves SAP software to
intermediate the situation, so we are mission-critical. Companies, if they turned off their SAP
system, wouldn't be running. It's not like I can delay buying new phones or PCs. This is how you
run your company.
I would also double down on the channel, the industry, and the ecosystem. We are multiple
routes to market now in terms of different channels. We're covering 25 industries, obviously, the
most global business software company in the world. And I think we've done a very sound job in
the ecosystem when you think about Microsoft, Amazon, Google, Alibaba, not to mention more
of the hybrid cloud providers such as IBM and Dell, I doubt they have any higher priority than
building out their practice with SAP. And that used to be centered on S/4HANA, but it's rapidly
expanding to C/4HANA, HANA as the database of the 21st century and now experience
management. I don't think there's a single concern in my voice, nor anyone in the SAP Company
about our ability to grow and take on all challenges.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you.
Q - `Mohammed Moawalla, Analyst, Goldman Sachs International `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
We have time for two more questions, please.
Operator
Certainly, our next question is from Walter Pritchard from Citi. Please go ahead. Your line is now
open.
Q - `Walter H. Pritchard, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Hi. Thank you. Question, I think we understand pretty clearly the gross margin dynamics that
you're talking about related to profitability. Could you talk about sales and marketing, how you
see efficiencies playing out in sales and marketing related to the cloud business? You have
Qualtrics coming in with higher spending, you've got bigger renewal base. I think that'd be helpful
in us understanding, because that's a big driver. Thanks.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, absolutely. So on sales and marketing, you have seen obviously that in 2018 we had a very
favorable development. We clearly, of course in past years, have invested a lot and we have
streamlined our operations. We have simplified the structure a bit, have funded certain
specialized sales organizations together to reduce overhead and, of course, also the IFRS 15
accounting change in particular in sales and marketing has helped.
And our ambition is also in the future to continue to make progress and achieve (01:01:36) further
decline in sales and marketing expenses, not at the same significant slope that we have seen in
2018, because that special effect from IFRS 15 is actually turning into a mild headwind as of 2019.
But certainly we continue to focus the organization on reducing overhead, making sure that we
optimize the productive feet on the street, the quota carrier ratios, and that together with thesynergies that we expect from Qualtrics, which will not have to add the same amount of head
count for sales and marketing that they would have had to add if they were remaining stand-
alone, should give us further improvements.
So among the three cost ratios, R&D we will seek to keep it at the same level and stable because
investments in innovation are key, and on sales and marketing and G&A we expect to go for
continued further improvement.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you.
Q - `Walter H. Pritchard, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Great. Thank you, Luka.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Now let's take the final question.
Operator
Certainly. And our final question is from Mark Moerdler from Bernstein. Please go ahead.
Q - `Mark L. Moerdler, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Thank you for squeezing me in. I've got one for Bill and one for Luka. Bill, can you give us some
more color on the unified customer profile work you've been doing with Adobe and Microsoft?
Does Qualtrics and your drive to C/4HANA and experience change any of this?
And then for Luka, I understand the expectations for license to decline longer term, but given the
traditional attach of additional users and modules, et cetera, in major upgrade cycles, how should
we think about how – where the new revenue attach will occur with S/4HANA upgrades going
forward? Thanks.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much for the question, Mark. First, let's talk about C/4HANA. As you know, we
acquired hybris when they were the omni-channel e-commerce leader, undisputed. We acquired
Gigya to protect the privacy of the consumers that our customers serve, so they could make the
proper offerings and protect data in the appropriate way. We then acquired Callidus for
configure-price-quote and the whole sales, compensation methodology.
Now that comes together with SAP's already strong sales, marketing, field service cloud. So now
we have a complete suite to offer multiple cloud options for a customer with C/4HANA. The best
thing, everything's on HANA, and HANA's the greatest database in the world. No one questions
that.
Now with regard to Qualtrics, now you've got experience management, which is not like a big
integration challenge. Experience management, it kind of overlays the operating data of a
company. What we did with Microsoft and Adobe is basically said, when you think about Azure
and you think about the completeness of vision that SAP has on an end-to-end basis, why not
give the customer the choice to have an Open Data Initiative where these platforms would make
it easy for the customer to do business with us. We also included Adobe in that.So we're three companies that have professional courtesy and respect at the leadership level
and at the team level, but most importantly, we have great empathy for the customer. So when
the Open Data Initiative was offered at Microsoft's event in Orlando some time ago, we said we
will give you a single view of the customer. Gigya will give you access to 2 billion profiles. Qualtrics
now will give you, since we have them in the portfolio, another 1.5 billion profiles. And between
the excellence of SAP's end-to-end, Microsoft's Azure Cloud, and certainly some of the great
solutions that Adobe offers, we're giving customers choice and we're giving them the best
possible route to value.
Now keep in mind, this is entirely different than the alternative of some of the dotcom companies
and we think this is competitive advantage for all three companies and most importantly, it favors
our customers.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. And to quickly come back to your question on license and attach place, interestingly
enough, in Q4, as license returned to growth, we had actually various categories in our on-
premise solution portfolio that were showing growth. Obviously, our digital supply chain
management and S/4HANA business continue to grow in double-digits as it has been for the
entire year. But we saw in Q4, even in C/4HANA, which was, of course, a business where we
doubled down completely in the cloud, positive license growth. And we saw positive license
growth in Analytics in both of these areas, paired with triple-digit growth in the respective cloud
businesses. So it's clear that it's not an either/or. It can be an and.
Now for the full year, our core is the one business where we saw still license growth and we
expect that this will continue into 2019. There is absolutely a valid point that the S/4HANA
upgrade cycle drives a potential for substantial further renovation of a company's IT architecture
and gives us multiple cross-selling opportunities.
However, I also want to be clear that most of these cross-selling opportunities are giving us a
chance to double down in our cloud businesses, whether it's spend management, which is a very
natural attach to an S/4HANA upgrade with Ariba and Fieldglass and Concur, whether it's to
renovate the HR side of the house as well with SuccessFactors, or whether it's about going into
adjacencies and creating and co-innovating on new capabilities with the SAP Cloud Platform.
That's where the big attach opportunities are.
And so you can absolutely make the claim that S/4HANA, as an upgrade cycle, reinvigorates our
growth opportunities in the cloud while we have a great opportunity to continue to enjoy a nice
runway on the ERP upgrades.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. One of the things that has not been reported at all that you might have an interest in is let's
just take a category like workforce management. If you're a CEO of a company, you might
actually think about total workforce management as the imperative versus HR, right? Because you
would think about your employees, which is your full-time employees, you might also think about
all the contract employees like the shadow workforce that exists in every company.
And now with Qualtrics, we can actually assemble specific real-time feedback on the experience
of an employee. You don't have to wait for the annual HR survey. We know exactly how the
employees are doing in real-time because those experience systems are connected. And this is
going to give us yet another advantage.The same thing could also be said for C/4HANA. The participants in the market today have a
system of record, not a system of innovation. When you can compose C/4HANA and you're truly
running real-time and you're extending into the actual sentiment analysis of a customer as they're
using the product and giving you feedback on that product, you can change the way your
operations are behaving to satisfy that customer and keep the promise of the brand.
So I don't think that the CRM system of record that exists in the market today, no matter how
many Wall Street Journal pictures are taken of a market share slide that's 20 years old, is going to
help when you're having a serious sales cycle conversation with people that run businesses, but
we're looking forward to that debate.
Q - `Mark L. Moerdler, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Thank you very much. I appreciate it.
A - `Stefan Gruber, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. This concludes our Q4 earnings call and we look forward to seeing you in
New York City next week on Thursday at our Capital Markets Day. Thanks so much for joining.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, everybody.
A - `Luka Mucic, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you. Goodbye.
A - `William R. McDermott, Chief Executive Officer `
See you in New York.
Operator
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, that now concludes today's conference call. Thank you for your
participation. You may now disconnect.