Y 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome, and thank you, for joining the SAP's
Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2023 Results. Throughout today's recorded presentation, all
participants will be in the listen-only mode. The presentation will be followed by a question-and-
answer session. (Operator Instructions)
I would now like to turn the conference over to `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer, Chief Investor Relations Officer.
Please go ahead.
`Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today to discuss our Q4 and full year
results for 2023. We will also provide color about our 2024 outlook and 2025 ambition. With me
on this call are CEO, `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer; CFO, `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer; and `Scott Russell, Customer Success, who leads Customer
Success. You can find the deck supplementing this call, as well as our quarterly statement on our
Investor Relations website.
During this call, we'll make forward-looking statements which are predictions, projections, or
other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and
assumptions that are subject to risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results and
outcomes to materially differ. Additional information regarding these risks and uncertainties may
be found in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including but not limited to
the Risk Factors section of SAP's Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2022.
Unless otherwise stated, all numbers on this call are non-IFRS and growth rates and percentage
point changes are non-IFRS year-over-year at constant currencies. The non-IFRS financial
measures we provide should not be considered as a substitute for or superior to the measures
of financial performance prepared in accordance with IFRS.As a reminder, on December 18, 2023, SAP provided important updates regarding its reporting.
These changes are detailed in the presentation on our website and will be reflected starting from
Q1 2024 onwards. I would also like to take the opportunity to call your attention to our upcoming
financial analysts Conference, which will take place on June 5th as part of our Sapphire event in
Orlando, Florida. This will be broadcast on our website.
And as we have much to cover today, let's dive in without further ado. Christian, please, over to
you.
`Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Anthony, and thank you to everyone on the line for joining our call today. Welcome to
2024. 2023 was a great year for SAP. We met or exceeded our outlook in all key metrics. This
clearly underlines that the transformation journey we started three years ago has now reached a
new level.
With significant business momentum, including in Q4, SAP is stronger and more relevant than
ever as we enter the era of Business AI. At the same time, the tech industry is moving fast. We
need to keep leading the way as a top enterprise application company and further advance to
become the number one Business AI company as well. This is why, out of a very strong position,
we are now accelerating the development of the company with the clear goal to grasp the
opportunities of GenAI.
This morning we are sharing a major set of updates. First, we are announcing our plans to
implement a new transformation program. With this program, we are planning to intensify the
shift of investments to strategic growth areas, above all Business AI, and to drive new efficiencies
powered by AI across the business. Second, we are sharing our outlook for 2024, including
anticipated strong growth in cloud revenue and non-IFRS operating profit. Third, we are providing
an update on our 2025 ambition that now includes the financial effects of our new transformation
program, resulting in an increase of our profit and free cash flow guidance.
Let's start by looking at the results for Q4 and the full year. Q4 provided an exceptionally strong
finish to 2023, most importantly in terms of cloud momentum. Current cloud backlog increased
by a strong 27%, that's higher growth than ever before. And cloud revenue growth accelerated to
25%. This great success was powered by strong customer momentum. To name just three
examples, Vodafone is betting on RISE with SAP. They have selected Signavio for their business
process management, as well as BTP, Datasphere and Business AI from SAP. This will help
Vodafone to boost innovation and drive productivity. EMS, a leader in the Brazilian pharma market,
is migrating its Oracle platform to RISE with SAP. The company is looking to modernize
operations, enhance scalability and drive cost predictability for future growth. Volkswagen has
been implementing the first large- scale cloud project in the human resources function based on
SAP SuccessFactors. They will now also use SuccessFactors to digitize all essential HR processes
and take the employee HR experience to the next level.
In addition to these impressive customer stories, there were further highlights in Q4. We
successfully completed the acquisition of LeanIX, another great addition to our business
transformation portfolio. SAP and NVIDIA are working together to bring advanced Generative AI
capabilities into RISE with SAP. Additionally, NVIDIA has selected RISE with SAP to make their
supply chain more resilient and scale operations. And SAP also made a strong showing at COP28.
SAP solutions enable more transparent ESG metrics, helping decision makers to take the right
actions to accelerate sustainability.For the full year, we met or exceeded all our outlook KPIs. Current cloud backlog grew 27% to
EUR13.7 billion. Cloud revenue was up 23% to EUR13.7 billion. Our operating profit exceeded the
guidance range by nearly EUR100 million. What is more? Total cloud backlog increased 39% to
EUR44 billion, giving SAP incredible resilience for the years to come. I'd like to thank all SAP
colleagues for these excellent results in a challenging environment. We had promised to quickly
turn SAP into a cloud company, a company with double-digit profit growth, and we can
comfortably say we delivered. SAP is stronger and more relevant than ever, and the figures for
2023 clearly show that the transformation we have been driving for the past three years is now
entering into a new phase.
Let me now turn to our outlook for 2024 and our 2025 ambition. Starting with the top line. We are
guiding EUR17 billion to EUR17.3 billion in cloud revenue for 2024, with an implied growth rate of
25.5% at the mid-point. This anticipated growth puts us well on track to hit our 2025 ambition of
more than EUR21.5 billion. Our growth formula is working and will continue to propel us through
2025, with total revenue growth expected to accelerate through 2027.
The ingredients are clear. We lead with our RISE and GROW with SAP offerings. On RISE, we are
signing up hundreds of net new customers every year. On top, we still have more than EUR11
billion of support revenue that we can convert to cloud revenue over the long term. We are rolling
out targeted migration incentives and methodologies to accelerate the RISE conversion.
At the same time, GROW is gearing up to be a big success with over 700 new customers signing
up since our launch. With RISE and GROW becomes the business technology platform. BTP has
become a central piece in the architecture of our customers and our Platform as a Service
solutions now stand at a revenue run rate of EUR2.5 billion with strong double-digit growth. The
flywheel is just starting to spin as more and more customers and partners move to a clean core
on top of BTP.
As customers advance on their RISE and GROW transformation journeys, we also see increasing
levels of cross-sell based on the integrated suite. Our top 1,000 customers are now on average
using four SAP cloud solutions, up from three last year. For our top 100 customers, we add five
solutions, up from four in 2022. Going forward, we will provide transparency on the increasing
strengths of our cloud ERP suite through our cloud ERP suite disclosure.
And then there is Business AI. Last week, I had the opportunity to meet with many global leaders
and key customers and partners at the World Economic Forum in Davos. My conversations all
circled around one topic. Generative AI is the greatest opportunity since the rise of the cloud,
especially for SAP. I also received very positive feedback on our plans and use cases for Business
AI. SAP will completely embed AI in our solutions. We will make it readily available for end users
and connect it with all business processes. This will tremendously boost the capabilities of our
solutions. It will also fundamentally change how users interact with our systems.
To reflect the central importance of AI for our future, we have updated our ambition to be the
number one enterprise application and Business AI company. The transformation program we are
announcing today will shift additional resources to Business AI, in line with the significant growth
potential we see for SAP. Over the next two years, SAP will invest almost EUR1 billion to develop
powerful AI use cases for our customers. And AI is not our only fast-growing innovation area. SAP
Signavio, SAP LeanIX and our sustainability portfolio are all gaining significant traction.
Finally, M&A. I already mentioned it. SAP has an integrated portfolio with amazing potential. We
don't need to buy growth through acquisitions, but as always, we will keep our eyes open to
further complement our portfolio.Let's now look at the bottom line. I have already mentioned that we entered a new phase of our
transformation. Building on the significant work we have done in the last few years, we see an
opportunity to accelerate profitability beyond our initial ambition for 2025. The levers supporting
this accelerated profit growth are the following. A more cloud- and adoption-centric go-to-market
model, with clear roles and responsibilities along the customer value journey. A more focused
portfolio, concentrating investments on areas that drive major synergies with our core. This allows
us to capitalize on the massive market we can address with our cloud ERP suite. A comprehensive
infusion of Business AI across all functions and processes, and an accelerated workforce
transformation to ensure we have the best skills in the right places.
It is important to be clear. This workforce transformation will include a restructuring component.
We intend to allocate roughly EUR2 billion for this. A decision affecting colleagues this way is
never easy, but we truly believe it is the right next step. We are setting up SAP for a strong,
competitive future that all stakeholders, including employees, will benefit from. This program is
expected to affect 8,000 positions worldwide. We will make every possible effort to focus on
reskilling and voluntary exits with the aim to mitigate the social impact of the program fully [ph].
Given the reinvestments into strategic growth areas, we expect to finish 2024 with a headcount
similar to current levels.
In summary, SAP had a very strong 2023, putting us well on track to achieve our 2025 ambition.
On the top line, our growth formula is clearly working and we are further investing in Business AI
and other innovation to drive growth. On the bottom line, we see further opportunities to
enhance the scalability of our operating model.
With that, Dominik, over to you.
`Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you very much, Christian, and thank you all for joining us this morning. A happy and healthy
2024 to everyone.
We once again delivered on our financial targets for the year, and are making great progress
towards our 2025 ambition. Our financial results demonstrate our commitment to our stated
goals and we've thoroughly executed on the strategy we have outlined. This resulted in a strong
finish in Q4, exceeding our own expectation in cloud and software revenue, non-IFRS operating
profit, and cash flow. The strong order intake and resulting current cloud backlog gives us
confidence that we'll keep the momentum this year, underpinned by the success we've seen with
RISE, with SAP, the solution of choice for our customers globally to help drive their end-to-end
business transformations. This is evident as large cloud transactions with a volume greater than
EUR5 million contributed 55% to our cloud order entry for the full year and an impressive 62% in
Q4.
Before we move on to the financial updates, as Christian mentioned earlier, I'd like to remind
everyone about the reporting changes announced on December 18, 2023, and give you a brief
update on the new cloud ERP suite. Cloud ERP suite is our growth engine, representing 82% of
our combined SaaS and PaaS revenues and growing by 33% in fiscal year 2023, up from 32% in
the prior year. We expect cloud ERP suite to sustain very high growth rates and therefore, to
represent a growing share of our cloud business going forward.
Now let me dive into more details around our financial highlights. Current cloud backlog reached
EUR13.7 billion, continuing its growth at scale to 27%, the fastest pace on record. Total cloud
backlog for the year even grew at 39%. Cloud revenue grew 23% year-on-year, underpinned byThis is an uptick of 2 percentage points sequentially for the largest quarter in volume. Cloud
revenue now surpasses combined software licenses and software support revenue and is
effectively our largest and fastest-growing revenue stream.
Our combined SaaS and PaaS portfolio for 2023 continued to grow by an impressive 26%, with
SaaS revenue up 23% and PaaS up 46%. This strong performance was primarily driven by
outstanding contribution of cloud ERP suite, including the business technology platform. Total
revenue for the full year was up 9%, supported by cloud and services revenue.
Now let's take a brief look at our regional performance. In the fourth quarter, SAP's cloud revenue
performance was particularly strong in APJ and EMEA and solid in the Americas region.
Now let's move down the income statement. Our cloud gross margin for the full year continued
its upward trend from last year and expanded by 2.4 percentage points to 72.6%, driving cloud
gross profit up by 27%. In the fourth quarter, non-IFRS operating profit was up 2%. As a reminder
[ph] of special effects in Q4, operating profit was negatively impacted by the accelerated
amortization of capitalized sales commissions and which were related to the on-premise
business, higher bonus accruals simply related to the very strong performance in Q4. Prior year
operating profit baseline included a disposal gain of EUR109 million related to the sale of Litmos
business.
For the fiscal year, we kept our promise and delivered double-digit operating profit growth of
13% year-on-year, reaching EUR8.72 billion. I'm particularly pleased that we have snapped back to
growth on non-IFRS operating profit, especially as starting in 2024 we will no longer exclude
share-based compensation expenses from our non-IFRS results. As announced last month, we
will report on this measure going forward, on which we have also turned the corner in 2023.
Earnings per share increased by 24% to EUR5.01. The IFRS effective tax rate for the full year was
32.6% and the non-IFRS tax rate was 29.3%. Up until the end of 2023, both measures were
strongly dependent on the performance of our equity investments, the majority of which are in
Sapphire Ventures, as gains in that portfolio carried a much lower tax rate than our operational
business. There was no significant dilutive impact on the effective tax rate by that mechanism in
2023 as we only had pre-tax losses of EUR165 million in 2023.
Please note that in our new non-IFRS net income definition, we exclude the earnings impact
coming from fair value adjustments of equity investments. So even when snapping back to
profits, the newly defined metric will not benefit from any potential dilution of effective tax rate
going forward. The main reason, why we even exceeded this guidance in 2023 is because of
non-recurring effects.
SAP expects a mid- to long-term effective tax rate of 28.0% to 32.0% for non-IFRS purposes. For
2024, we expect to be at the higher end of such range due to restructuring expenses, which
result in the temporary inability to offset foreign withholding taxes in Germany.
Free cash flow for the full year was up 16% to EUR5.1 billion, exceeding the revised outlook of
approximately EUR4.9 billion. While higher payouts for taxes and restructuring weighed on free
cash flow in the year, the positive development was primarily driven by profitability,
improvements in working capital, and we also had some positive impact on phasing of CapEx and
leasing which was pushed out to 2024. Overall, we are making good progress on our journey to
solidify our free cash flow plans, which is a nice segue into our financial outlook.
Restructuring expenses in the context of the planned transformation program, described already
by Christian, are projected to be approximately EUR2 billion, the vast majority of which isexpected to be recognized in the first half of 2024. I have to caution you, though, that we are just
starting the negotiations with social partners in some countries and need to make assumptions
on the specific mix of measures and geographic composition which might require material
adjustments to this number and the related cash-out. Simultaneously, we are stepping up our
investment in Business AI to drive automation, as we see significant growth opportunities lying
ahead and want to improve our operating leverage. So any savings we can reap from
restructuring in 2024 already will be largely offset by that investment.
The incremental savings will allow us to increase our non-IFRS operating profit ambition for 2025
from EUR11.5 billion to EUR12 billion, net of share-based compensation of approximately EUR2
billion to EUR10 billion under the new non-IFRS operating profit definition. The benefits of the
planned program and from the investments in Business AI will become more apparent in
subsequent years as we capitalize on improved operating leverage at an increasing scale.
This also allows us to increase the free cash flow ambition for 2025 to EUR8 billion. This is net of
any cash-out for restructuring that might spill over into 2025. As we have to absorb about EUR0.4
billion of cash-out for pre-existing compliance and related matters and the unwinding of the
remaining SAP-triggered factoring, on top of the preliminary estimate of EUR2 billion cash-out for
restructuring, the corresponding underlying free cash flow number, net of these effects, for 2024
is forecast to approximately EUR5.9 billion. This is largely in line with the tax-affected projected
improvement in our non-IFRS operating profit.
When it comes to improvement in cash conversion in 2025, please keep in mind that in that year
we expect to see a significant reduction in cash-out related to share-based compensation. The
fact that we imply approximately EUR2 billion of share-based compensation in 2025 and the
bridge from non-operating profit prior versus new definition, should also give you assurance that
we aim to keep that line in check. We want to further improve the attractiveness of this important
compensation tool by strengthening the confidence in this instrument based on strong earnings
and free cash flow growth momentum.
Finally, I'd like to turn to sustainability and our non-financial results. Our investments in the winning
sustainability solution portfolio have been very well received by the market and we now have
approximately 1,000 cloud for sustainable enterprise customers. Q4 was particularly successful
with a key win in Japan, where Matsumoto Precision adopted our sustainability footprint
management solution to help manage their CO2 emissions. We view sustainability as an
additional growth space, with market trends such as the convergence of sustainability and
financial standards and increasing disclosure requirements playing to our strength.
In Q4, we released two new sustainability solutions, including Sustainability Data Exchange, which
helps businesses gain transparency on suppliers' CO2 emissions, and Green Token, which
enables companies to provide traceability and transparency across the supply chain. I'm also
happy to confirm that we met our 2023 non-financial metric targets. Our customer net promoter
score, NPS, increased 2 points year-over-year to 9 in 2023, within the outlook range of 8 to 12.
SAP's Employee Engagement Index remained stable at 80%, meeting the upper end of the
target range and demonstrating a continued high level of engagement. Net carbon emissions
were zero kilotons in 2023, meaning the company was carbon-neutral in its own operations.
In summary, we have achieved all key objectives in 2023. Our strategy works and remains
consistent. However, we must continue to evolve and stay agile while we continuously adapt to a
fast-changing landscape. Our outlook illustrates that we are on the right trajectory to achieve our
updated 2025 ambition despite a quite challenging macroeconomic outlook.In 2024, we will focus on staying the course and putting the right gradient of earnings growth in
place to sustain strong revenue and earnings growth well into the second half of the decade.
Delivering on that ambition is also a compelling argument to convince our customers to build
intelligent, sustainable enterprises and to attract and retain the best talent to master the
challenges lying ahead, despite some difficult decisions we had to take with regards to
restructuring. We continue to focus on stronger execution and remain confident about SAP's
future.
So thank you very much for your attention, and we are now happy to take your questions.
`Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you. And operator, you can open the line, please.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, at this time we will begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator
Instructions) And the first question is from the line of `Frederic Boulan, Analyst, Bank of America with Bank of America. Go
ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Frederic Boulan, Analyst, Bank of America `
Hey, good morning. Thank you very much for taking the question. If we can start, first of all, on the
S/4HANA and S1 cloud migration, if you can give us an update, in particular, on the traction you're
having with large and complex customers. You created that new Board position dedicated to
cloud growth headed by Thomas Saueressig. What problem are you trying to solve in terms of
accelerating that transition?
And then secondly, if I can follow up on the Business AI topic, so can you discuss a little bit the
traction you've seen with the RISE premium offering, one of the biggest use cases where you see
the strongest interest from your customers? Anything you can share around the road map and
ability to price up would be great. Thank you very much.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, absolutely, happy to do so. So, first of all, on large enterprises, I mean, you have seen the
logos in our earnings announcement and customers like NVIDIA or DHL, they really want to use
our products to actually scale operations, to drive productivity, to also fight inflation, and also, of
course, to build more resilient supply chains. And actually, when you look at the order entry in Q4,
it was actually a significant uptick when you look at the deals we are closing above EUR5 million.
And then, of course, you also have seen our total cloud backlog of over EUR44 billion, and that
also signals you, I mean, this amount of committed order backlog, which is already sitting in the
books, is coming especially from large enterprises who are now going into the design phase to
remodel their business models, to also strive standardization, to move to the clean core. And
then over the course of the next year, we'll, of course, also adopt our business technology
platform. So, overall, we are actually very confident and we are very happy with the traction we
are seeing in the large enterprise segment.
Scott, any further comments?
A - `Scott Russell, Customer Success `Yeah, I think we've spoken about it before, Christian, but I would just reinforce, customers around
the world are very clear that to be able to navigate the uncertainty of the macroeconomic and
other environments, they need operationally efficient processes, they need to access their data
and be able to then find ways to monetize and learn from that data using opportunities with
Business AI. And the only answer is using cloud with SAP. So the order entry is a reflection of the --
not only the positive sentiment, but frankly, the market demand that we see. And, obviously, that
has resulted in strong total cloud backlog and current cloud backlog.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. And with regard to Business AI, we launched two commercial models, indeed, RISE
premium, GROW premium. And there we are actually seeing that actually over 50% of our
customers actually selecting our premium packages. Also that we are giving our customers the
choice of a consumption-based AI offering where they can buy tokens and use them across our
portfolio is extremely compelling. And we, of course, also signed now a ton of new customers.
And now it's all about adoption, now it's all about making them live, to show real use cases and
show the value as we are moving, especially in Business AI now, from discovery into execution. So
it's all about adoption. And the start was very promising.
Q - `Frederic Boulan, Analyst, Bank of America `
Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thanks, Fred. We'll take the next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Johannes Schaller, Analyst, Deutsche Bank with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
Q - `Johannes Schaller, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Yeah, good morning. Thanks for taking my question. You, obviously, brought in the new cloud ERP
suite definition. I think you said 82% of revenues. Maybe you can help us understand a little bit
better what's in the other 18%. And I think, Dominik, you also alluded on the call in December to
potentially taking some action on these other 18%, especially the non-performing parts in the
cloud portfolio, if I understood you correctly. So is the current restructuring already targeting
some of these areas outside the cloud ERP suite, or is there maybe more to come? And then as
a follow-up, could you maybe give us a quick update just on the transactional side of the cloud
business and what the dynamics are here right now? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks for the question, Johannes. I'll start, and then handing over to Dominik. Look, the
cloud ERP definition, why? I mean, our cloud ERP is now better integrated than any other offering
out there in the market. The data model is harmonized between Ariba, SuccessFactors, Concur,
our CPQ offering with our core ERP. We are now talking about financials and supply chain. And we
have all the identity, the authorization management is now coming out of the box. And that, of
course, also drives a lot of cross-sell opportunities. I mean, frankly, Ariba and S/4 direct
procurement come as one procurement platform. And again, just also highlighting the significant
cross-sell potential we have. The businesses which are out there, out of the cloud ERP definition,
like our former HANA Enterprise Cloud business, I mean, you see they are in decline. We arefurther accelerating the move and there is no further restructuring required to actually lift and
shift these customers over to our RISE with SAP offering.
Dominik?
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Maybe I just also want to give you some quantitative background on this cloud ERP suite
definition. We think it's very important to demonstrate to you the sustained momentum in that. I
mentioned in my introductory remarks that we see a slight acceleration actually from 32% to 33%
here. Now, we had gotten sometimes the question from you, you need to accelerate cloud
revenue growth to hit your Ambition 2025. And actually, that's not precisely correct. If you look at
the decomposition of our SaaS, PaaS revenue in -- 82% of that representing cloud ERP suite,
running smoothly at 33%, the rest having been a little bit under pressure in 2023 because we
also divested Litmos, so that gave it a little bit of a headwind. And I'd say on average that would
be more a mid-single-digit grower, the kind of extension suite.
And then you look at the decline in the Yard's business by minus 16%, constant currency light [ph]
next year. If you do the math and simply take the same growth rates on all these categories for
the next two years, you come exactly to our Ambition 2025. So it's not an acceleration, it is simply
a continuation of the momentum in these different buckets, i.e. strong growth in our cloud ERP
suite, a slightly lower growth, or lower growth, frankly on the extension suite, which Christian
mentioned, and then a declining Yards business. On top of that, of course, we have a minor --
very minor uptick from the Litmos -- sorry, the LeanIX integration. So you can really nicely
triangulate from that the revenue growth we've guided for '24. So in addition to jumping off
current cloud backlog, you ask about the transactional part of it. You can figure out that, we said
it's about EUR800 million of revenues. It's kind of flattish in 2024. If you look at the dilution of the
CCB by that, it brings you pretty much to our midpoint of the guidance. So it's all extremely
circular triangulation 2024 cloud revenues.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. And maybe just one comment, I mean, because there was also a question around large
enterprises moving to RISE. I mean, what we typically see is the customers, especially large
enterprise customers, they land with finance and logistics. And then we already embed
procurement because now, because of the integration, everything is sitting on BTP. There's no
need anymore to buy direct procurement for S/4 and indirect procurement with Ariba. It just
comes as one procurement platform, which also then avoids that we are going into infights
against any best-of-breed players. We are just delivering it out of the box. And then when you
land it, then you can talk about let's modernize travel and expense. And when you actually have
finance and logistics, why do not predict the sales planning and inventory matching with IBP? And
this goes on and on and on. And this -- of course, this cross-sell synergies we want to leverage
now in the years to come.
Q - `Johannes Schaller, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Very clear. Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Johannes. We'll take the next question, please.
OperatorThe next question is from the line of `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Hi, good morning. Congratulations on the strong end to '23. And thanks for taking the question.
Maybe just, first of all, in terms of the restructuring plan, you've obviously given guidance for '25.
Could you just help us, are there any further benefits that you'd expect from that plan, both from
a revenue acceleration and cost-wise post 2025?
And then secondly, as we talk about Business AI and SAP, obviously investors have been
assessing a lot the benefit to the chip layer for hyper scalers and for large language models. But
it strikes us that there's going to be a big benefit to companies that have access to customer
data and customer processes. Could you just talk a little bit about how that differentiates SAP and
how willing customers are to work with you to share those things to benefit the wider installed
base? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Look, I can start and then Dominik, please also comment on our cost potential 2025 and
beyond. I mean, look, the business model, Adam, I mean, when we started this transformation
three years ago, there was of course a much lower recurring revenue share. And now we have
built immense resilience, and the total cloud backlog of EUR44 billion actually signals the
immense revenue potential we already have in the books for the years to come. We will now --
doubling down on landing, expanding on adoption to really drive that hope.
And then just to give you another figure, RISE, GROW. RISE, actually, contributed with 50% net
new customers. So 50% installed base, 50% net new. So it's not only about converting the
installed base to support revenue with a higher multiple to cloud, it's also about winning market
share. And then when you look into 2025 and beyond, and Dominik can comment on that, I mean,
given now the higher recurring revenue share, given the lower share of license revenue which will
further decline in the years to come, obviously, it's actually just as a result that we see further
total revenue acceleration in also 2025 and beyond. And with Business AI and sustainability, and in
our very strong supply chain portfolio, we have no lack of new solutions, of new innovations, to
further also win market share in the upcoming years.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
And maybe, then, beyond the acceleration on the total revenues because of the mix effects that
are playing in our favor, yes, the restructuring program, which is frankly expensive at EUR2 billion,
has benefits beyond the pure kind of uplift of EUR0.5 billion in 2025. I mean, there's also the
reskilling that we need to do to master business design, to drive the growth. But also from a pure
financial model point of view, what we really tried to do is to decouple the cost growth more from
the top line growth. I mean, that was a little bit the Achilles heel, I would say, in our business
model that we have been not very successful to do that in the past. And that was also -- I think
there's a good reason for that, because we had to invest heavily in the transformation. But now
our customers want to see and you investors want to see that we can drive efficiencies by
Business AI. We've done some thorough benchmarking with -- what other cloud companies are
doing, and we really want to converge more to best-in-breed kind of fall-through, i.e. in operating
leverage, i.e. Increasing the cost base more slowly. And that should give us actually margin
expansion beyond 2025.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `And, Adam on AI and differentiation for SAP, just to give you a glimpse, we are developing strong
organic products, a strong organic AI platform, so that our co-pilot tool can speak not only finance
but can solve some of the hardest problems our customers facing across the company. We're
going to infuse it right into the business processes. I mean, when you look at what we already can
do in predictive sales and optimizing inventory, it can take out a ton of CapEx and OpEx off the
P&L, off balance sheet of our customers.
And then when you listen to our partners, like Microsoft or NVIDIA, where we just closed another
partnership, I mean, they are keen, actually, now to combine their co-pilots with our co-pilot to
extend our AI platform. Why? Because when you have consent from over 30,000 customers and
access to the most mission-critical data, I mean the algorithms become smarter every day. We
can actually solve some problems which others can't. The accuracy, and also actually to also
ensure responsible AI is of course a treasure what only SAP has in the market.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Adam.
Q - `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Yeah, thank you, Adam. We'll take the next question. And I will kindly ask you, or remind you to
please stick to one question if possible. Thank you.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Toby Ogg, Analyst, J.P. Morgan Cazenove Limited with J.P. Morgan Cazenove Limited. Please
go ahead.
Q - `Toby Ogg, Analyst, J.P. Morgan Cazenove Limited `
Yes, hi, good morning, and thanks for the question. Just on the CCB growth in Q4, 27% versus
the sort of 25% that you've been seeing previously, I know various factors to consider there.
Obviously, the Litmos divestiture lapping, and I think there was obviously a touch of M&A in there
from LeanIX. So could you just break down in a bit more granularity and quantify the core drivers
of that CCB growth re-acceleration? And then also just the reconciliation between the 27% CCB
growth and the 24% to 27% cloud revenue guide for 2024, what are you penciling in there on the
transactional side? Thank you.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I'm happy to do that. I mean, first of all, yes, you've seen, or you will see in the disclosure in
the full report, that I think there was a EUR10 million contribution from LeanIX for the December.
So pick $100 million-ish plus as a revenue uplift. That's, of course, boosting our CCB growth at
that tune. The rest was, frankly, just having Scott here great end of the year in bookings. We really
did well in terms of pulling in a lot of deals and signing them and getting them closed. So it's
really solid.
And now, in terms of the translation of that CCB growth into the cloud revenue guidance, I hinted
to that before, it is basically the transactional revenue that is the explanation for the delta, a jump
of 27%. You have an EUR800 million-ish transaction revenue, which is pretty much stagnating, andhas been stagnating in '23 and will continue to do so in 2024. And I think, Christian, you might
want to explain what's happening in our supplier network business, which is actually a strategic
investment we do there.
So the good news is, that headwind, which is kind of shaving off 1.5 percentage points or so in
2024, will ease over time because the rest of the cloud business is growing fast. And because of
the benefits we see from that strategic investment on the supplier side -- on the supplier
network, we think we'll achieve a more normal growth, I'd say, in 2024. So we're not going to
snap back to double-digit yet, but high single-digit is possible in 2025. So that's the trajectory we
see. We frankly don't need any macroeconomic miracles at all for that. We just have assumed a
kind of continued subdued macro for that. So I think that's a very, very solid way to triangulate the
guidance on cloud revenues for '24. I gave you that logic also to simply extrapolate the growth
buckets we have within cloud from '23 to '24, taking LeanIX into account. And you can then play
that game also from '24, '25. And you see it's super circular and solid to bring these data points
together.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Look, I mean, kudos to Scott and the team. It was an extremely successful Q4. And I guess
what is also making SAP so resilient for the years to come, it's, of course, the EUR44 billion
already sitting in our books. But when you are doing business in over 100 countries, I mean, in
quarters like that you have Southeast Asia walking. Who is actually saying that Germany is not a
cloud market? Germany had an outstanding quarter. North America performed extremely well.
Large customers like GEM signing up to decarbonize, to build these resilient supply chains. And
when you are then sitting in Davos and you are looking at the challenges what business leaders
have right now, no matter if it's about automation with Business AI, doing things which humans
can't do today, which you can do tomorrow with AI, or it's about sustainability with the green
ledger which is now hitting the market, and also then get transparency also for Scope 2 and
Scope 3, I mean, you are touching actually all the relevant topics. And this is why I'm also so proud
on our product teams because the innovation coming out of these teams is really, really strong
and gives us, of course, also a lot of confidence regarding order entry for the years to come.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you.
Q - `Toby Ogg, Analyst, J.P. Morgan Cazenove Limited `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Toby. We'll take the next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Ben Castillo Bernaus, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas with Exane BNP Paribas. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Ben Castillo Bernaus, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas `
Good morning. Thanks very much and congratulations for a strong end of the year. A question, I
guess, to Dominik around free cash flow conversion. Looked like '23 was strong. We're seeing
some underlying improvement in the 2024 guidance if we exclude the one-offs there, but thensome more needed in 2025. And you did mention the cash stock-based compensation charge
helping there. But I'm curious, what other levers are you pulling around working capital, cash
collection that can give us some extra confidence in that required trajectory for your 2025
different [ph] targets? Thank you.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I mean, it's actually quite straightforward. You basically mentioned the lion's share of the
bridge. It's simply the uplift in the profit, net of the tax rate which we've guided, that is falling
through into cash flow, of course. This is really improvement on profit. And then you have to
always look at kind of the cash conversion on stock-based compensation. What's the P&L and
what's the cash out? And there is a big improvement looming from '24 to '25. Taking that into
account, you have a relatively moderate assumption for working capital, gradual grinding on
efficiency, collecting money earlier. We've already made quite some progress. I mean, this is also
the reason why in 2023 you've seen an outperformance on free cash flow. And honestly, you've
seen in my comments that we have to only digest a couple hundred million of factoring -- SAP-
induced factoring in 2024. So it tells you something that we've already worked off some of the
past year.
And so, I think also the logic in terms of how you build the bridges from '23, '24, '25 in free cash
flow, I mean, any other number would be quite illogical and it doesn't require any miracles, it just
requires proper execution, some very, very moderate improvements still on operations. So it is
something that we feel quite strong about that we can achieve that.
Q - `Ben Castillo Bernaus, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas `
Understood. Thanks very much.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thanks, Ben. We'll take the next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `James Goodman, Analyst, Barclays Capital with Barclays Capital. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `James Goodman, Analyst, Barclays Capital `
Morning. Thank you very much. Just from me, I mean, very strong cloud outlook. I wanted to just
dig in a little bit on the 8% to 10% cloud and software revenue growth. I mean, it seems, in the
past there was perhaps a little bit more confidence that the business would grow total revenue
double-digit this year, which clearly is possible at the high end of that range and on my numbers,
but just wanted to dig into a bit the sort of implied caution there really on the support and license
side. Given license declines seem to be tapering, it's now very small in any case. It really implies
quite a steep acceleration, I think, in the rate of maintenance decline. Is that something
specifically you're anticipating this year, and if so, why? Or is there an element of conservatism in
there? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Look, I mean, on total revenue. I mean, first, again, we had also a good Q4 in the license revenue,
as you can see from the numbers. Of course, there were also now customers actually who had to
still upsell some more users because of their growing business. But, of course, over time youcould see now a continuous decline as we always projected. But, of course, when you're now
having a good license quarter, that makes the year-over-year comparison a bit more difficult.
Now, I would also say, looking also in 2024, there is a volatility in this number -- in this license
revenue number. And with the underlying growing recurring revenue share of SAP, it's just a
matter of time when we actually report also total revenue growing double-digit. I would say there
is a certain likelihood in 2024, but for sure in 2025 onwards, you see a continuous acceleration of
total revenue, as you see our cloud business is working, it's strong, the total cloud backlog looks
very good, the transformation is ongoing.
And also with regard to the maintenance revenue, I mean, I have seen a lot of customers now
coming back to SAP from third-party support providers. It's actually giving us also the edge, it
shows the resilience. Of course, now it also makes it harder on a year-over-year compare, but it's
actually a good sign because customers are coming back in a world which is full of geopolitical
conflicts to rely on SAP, to provide all the legal updates, to provide all the localization. So, I am
actually extremely confident with regard to our total revenue performance, just also because
there will be another pull-through of our cloud revenue in the years to come.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you.
Q - `James Goodman, Analyst, Barclays Capital `
Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, James. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from `Charles Brennan, Analyst, Jefferies with Jefferies. Please go ahead.
Q - `Charles Brennan, Analyst, Jefferies `
Hi, good morning. Thank you so much for taking my question. I just wanted to ask one on
execution risk actually. The scale of the restructuring is obviously quite significant. It involves a
number of people. I think you specifically called out restructuring in the go-to-market organization.
What are the chances here of disruption to the sales motion and should we anticipate maybe
some volatility in the early parts of '24 that works through by the latter half? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
I mean, I will comment on the transformation program overall. Scott, you can comment then on
the go-to-market transformation. I mean, first, you can also already consider, of course, there is a
plan, it is mature, we know what we do. And when you actually look at what we are doing is,
inside SAP we also announced a few reorganizations and we're going to drive synergies. And, I
guess, now it's also the time to scale further our operations internally. We're also going to embed
more and more AI internally at SAP. That will give us more scale, more productivity in
development, in sales, in marketing, in all of the supporting functions. And in the go-to-market,
we are not touching our quota carriers who just delivered also these great results, but there are
teams around there where we are just harmonizing our roles and responsibilities. But over to you,
Scott, to share further comment.A - `Scott Russell, Customer Success `
Yeah. So, I think there's a few factors. First of all, execution clearly needs to be strong. But if you
look at our core metrics, when we think about pipeline and the market data, clearly, we've not
only had strong order entry, but we have optimism that the way forward that demand continues
to be strong, and that's underpinned by more of our large customers doing more multi-cloud
solutions in the cross-sell that Christian mentioned earlier, but also the net new acquisition. And a
lot of the go-to-market transformation is really about accessing and expanding in new markets.
You consider the potential for SAP to expand across geographies, to be able to run supply chains
and operations in different industries, and especially with GROW with SAP in the mid-market, the
ability for us to be able to expand and the transformation there really does allow us to access
those markets.
So, whilst, yes, there is an execution element this year, the ability for us to be able to manage
that and then access new markets, use digital modalities, use Business AI in the way we go to
market as well, clearly the potential is strong.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Charlie. We will take the next question, please. And this will be more -- two questions
more. So this one, and then (multiple speakers)
Operator
Yes. The next question is from the line of `Michael J. Briest, Analyst, UBS with UBS Limited. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Michael J. Briest, Analyst, UBS `
Yes. Good morning. Thanks for letting me on. Just a question around profitability in Q4 in 2023. I
mean, you started the year guiding for 23% to 26% cloud growth at constant currency [ph]. You
came in at the low end. And from my understanding, licenses don't require much quota. You
talked about higher bonuses, but is there any other accruals or anything else that affected
profitability? I mean, licenses were EUR200 million ahead of consensus, and in Q1 and Q3, we
saw that flowed through to the bottom line very nicely. Thank you.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I mean, we called out already some impacts, you mentioned the kind of back-end loaded
strong performance on the go-to-market, which resulted in bonus accruals. We also had
continued charges for that amortization on the commissions. That was accelerated because we
reduced the periods -- for the amortization periods for on-prem-related commissions. That has
already impacted Q3, but also continued at a similar EUR260 million-ish in Q4. Some of you might
have seen the precise settlement on DOJ, SEC, and the Brazilian compliance cases. We accrued
EUR170 million in March. We actually then had the provision moved to EUR155 million end of the
year. And on the other hand, you've seen about EUR200 million of settlement. And the delta of
that is more related to the civil part of it, which is actually not in the adjustment. But we kept that
within the non-IFRS operating profit. So that was another mid-double digit million to bridge the
gaps between the EUR155 million and EUR200 million. But these are the factors. And if you kind
of depollute Q4 for these factors, including, of course, the strong comparables from the Litmos
divestiture last year, you see that we are actually continuing to run at a very similar level as the
overall kind of growth level. It's not any abnormal quarter in that sense.Q - `Michael J. Briest, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you. And given the license beat, I mean do you think that we should see it go back on track
to your original plan, which implies, I don't know, 30%, 33% decline per annum from here?
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
I mean, I always highlight that license revenues are notoriously difficult to predict. This is also why I
like a lot the move to the cloud. Also, from that aspect, it gives us much better predictability. I
mean, let's see how much of what we have seen in Q4 was phasing versus real, kind of, longer-
term sustained demand. I always try to be prudent on that because it's hard to plan and we want
to be robust in our guidance. So, I mean, this is exactly why we have also some ranges in the
outcomes. That's a little bit the kind of swing factor I might say. So on the revenue side, on cloud,
it's more the transaction business, how strong is it really coming. And then on the bottom line, we
have also the question of can we add some more software revenues. But I think it's prudent to
assume a continued decline there because of the structural transition to cloud.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Michael. And we will now take the final question.
Operator
And the final question is from the line of `Mohammed Moawalla, Analyst, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs International.
Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Mohammed Moawalla, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Great, thank you. Morning and congratulations on the quarter again. My main question is really
around the kind of S/4 product cycle. Obviously, we've seen the robust TCB and CCB. In terms of
kind of the key constraints you see on kind of converting that backlog into revenue, we've heard
about system-integrated constraints in the system. How confident are you around that kind of --
as you get through the sweet spot of this product cycle, in kind of converting that, and are there
any other kind of bottlenecks beyond sort of integrated capacity that you see in realizing the kind
of value of that product cycle? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, Mohammed, thanks for the question. I mean, Davos is very helpful to also meet all of our
partners actually in only three days. And there was one consistent feedback. I mean, of course, in
2023 they saw strong momentum. The SAP practice was growing faster than anything else in
their portfolio, while we were already working with them in 2023 to ramp up capacity, and that will
continue in 2024. We will give them access to our academies. We will also launch further
enablement programs. We will also onboard further partners for RISE. We just today shared a few
announcements on who is joining also here, our RISE movement.
So there's a lot of traction in the ecosystem. Now, for 2024, indeed, yeah, we are actually
reviewing -- especially for the large enterprise customers, we are reviewing their transformation,
the Fit-to-Standard, the BTP adoption. And also where we're promising, all our partners are also
ramping up now AI practices, as they are seeing what is coming on the roadmap for Business AI,
which now also needs to come to adoption. So they're investing into SAP as they also remain very
confident for the years to come, also looking at the pipeline we are driving together. So yes,there were some capacity challenges, but we are working heavily with our partners to ramp up
further capacity.
Q - `Mohammed Moawalla, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you.
A - `Anthony Coletta, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Right. Thank you. And this concludes our call for today. Thanks for joining.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks a lot.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Bye-bye.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, the conference is now concluded.