Y 2025 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome and thank you for joining the SAP Q4
and Full Year 2025 Earnings Conference Call. Throughout today's recorded presentation, all
participants will be in a listen-only mode. The presentation will be followed by a question-and-
answer session. (Operator Instructions)
I would now like to turn the conference over to `Alexandra Steiger, Global Head of Investor Relations, Global Head of Investor
Relations. Please go ahead.
`Alexandra Steiger, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Good morning, everyone, and welcome. Thank you for joining us. With me today are CEO,
`Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer; and CFO, `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer. On this call, we will discuss SAP's fourth quarter and full
year results for 2025. You can find the deck supplementing this call, as well as our quarterly
statement on our Investor Relations website.
During this call, we will make forward-looking statements which are predictions, projections or
other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and
assumptions that are risk -- that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual
results and outcome to differ materially. Additional information regarding these risks and
uncertainties may be found in our filings with the SEC, including but not limited to the Risk Factors
section of our Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2024.
Unless otherwise stated, all numbers on this call are non-IFRS and growth rates, and percentage
point changes are non-IFRS, year-on-year on constant currencies. The non-IFRS financial measures
we provide should not be considered as a substitute for or superior to the measures of financial
performance prepared in accordance with IFRS.
And with that, I would like to turn the call over to Christian.
`Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `Yeah. Thank you, Alexandra, and a warm welcome to everyone joining this call. In countless
conversations with business leaders in Q4 and at the World Economic Forum, it became clear.
Customers are facing geopolitical uncertainty, macroeconomic volatility, and they would like to
leverage AI to make their companies more resilient and more productive, driving growth, as well
as cost efficiencies. At the same time, it is very encouraging that more and more customers and
partners are turning to SAP to gain real business value from AI. Why? Because they realize that
they don't gain value by developing a number of custom AI agents or by applying commodity
large language models on top of transactional business applications. The formula for gaining real
value from AI as an enterprise is becoming clear.
It's important to reimagine first how AI will change existing business modules and mission-critical
business processes. And to boost process automation and efficiency, AI agents must be
embedded in business processes and trained with context-rich business data that is not available
to large language module providers. This is a unique combination only SAP can deliver because
our business suite provides us with access to the world's largest volume of business data, and we
directly infuse our agentic AI layer in the most mission-critical business processes of a company.
This momentum of SAP Business AI is also clearly visible in our Q4 numbers. More than two-thirds
of our Q4 cloud order entry includes Business AI, increasing by more than 20 percentage points
compared with Q3. Looking at the 50 largest deals in Q4, 90% of them included AI or SAP
Business Data Cloud. We also saw the number of customers using our AI Copilot Joule growing
ninefold over the course of the year.
Now, let's have a broader look at our financial performance. Q4 was the best bookings quarter of
2025, ahead of our expectations. This resulted in a total cloud backlog of EUR77 billion, up 30%.
This also clearly shows the underlying momentum of our business, as well as our potential in the
future. In addition, we achieved our 2025 financial outlook for cloud revenue, as well as cloud and
software revenue, a great performance considering the macroeconomic challenges we faced in
half year one.
The ongoing transformation of SAP's operating model, combined with applying AI across the
company, allowed us to even beat our operating profit and free cash flow outlook in 2025. Some
of you might remember, back in 2020 we started our disruptive cloud transformation with very
ambitious targets for 2025, and today I'm happy to say we have delivered what we promised and
even outperformed this ambition. But more importantly, the great technological achievements of
our cloud transformation are now giving SAP the right to win with Business AI. It is the time to
thank our customers, partners, and more than 100,000 colleagues worldwide for the trust in our
strategy and for making the transformation happen, for sure, the biggest in SAP's history.
Let me directly turn to a Q4 number where I expect some questions, our current cloud backlog. In
Q4 it grew 25%. Back in Q3, we expected to reach 26%. Before I explain the deviation, let me
outline that in Q4 new bookings came in clearly ahead of plan, and we saw strong customer
retention, low churn, and stable discount rates. This resulted in a 30% increase to EUR77 billion
total cloud backlog, an impressive growth on an already large base.
Despite the strong Q4 performance, two factors led to the deviation. First, we closed a higher
share of significantly large deals in Q4 compared to our forecast in October, which is great for
the total cloud backlog. But large customers often don't move their mission-critical ERP in the first
year. These deals always have more back-end loaded ramps and as a consequence a limited
impact on current cloud backlog in the first 12 months. The good news, the average contract
duration remains stable, so we expect higher revenue contributions from these deals over the
next few years.Second, we closed a higher share of government deals in Q4 that included a termination for
convenience by law. Such deals are not reflected in the CCB. So, while we even overperformed
on bookings and are very satisfied with the outcome of Q4, the combination of both effects
resulted in a 1 percentage point difference to what we expected in October, and consequently a
slight shift of cloud revenue from 2026 to 2027 and beyond.
Now, the great bookings performance included some impressive wins in Q4. adidas, L'Oreal and
H&M Group are embarking on the RISE with SAP Journey. Deloitte, Pirelli, RTX, Nokia, Jabil, and
the US Navy chose RISE too, while Toyota and Daimler Truck are even expanding their ongoing
RISE Journey. Lockheed Martin went live on RISE with one of their business areas, a further step in
our multi-year partnership. It will continue in 2026 with our human capital management solutions
as they keep transforming their workforce. Across all sectors, companies selected SAP GROW to
transform their business. KPMG, Snowflake, and Muller, a large German retailer, just to name a
few.
On Business AI, new customers [ph] included names such as Tech Mahindra, Mondelez, Kirin, and
Sun Chemical. In Healthcare, Fresenius selected SAP Business AI to sustainably improve patient
care. We also saw the Bosch Group select SAP Business AI in Q4 to help boost innovation across
all four of its business sectors. This momentum is translating into Business AI adoption. Our
customers are already achieving impressive outcomes. Just one example. At Siemens,
consultants can reinvest 25% of their weekly working time into higher-value activities, thanks to
Joule for Consultants.
These impressive wins aren't just a list of logos. They are the result of our focused strategy
execution throughout the year. Looking back at 2025, we made huge progress. Let me name a
few highlights. First, our cloud transformation is in full swing. Customers, representing 40% of our
support revenue base, have now initiated a move to cloud ERP using the RISE and GROW with
SAP offerings. On the go-to-market side, we established a partner-first approach for the mid-
market and our focus on public cloud pays off with order entry growing more than five times
faster than private cloud in 2025, now almost half of our order entry. We have also expanded our
software and cloud capabilities and continue to see high demand for our offerings in the public
sector. In Q4, for example, we closed a new OneGov agreement with the US General Services
Administration, and with the HMRC in the UK.
Finally, our innovations in SAP Business Data Cloud and Business AI are seeing strong traction.
SAP Business Data Cloud secured around EUR2 billion in total contract value in less than a year
since its launch. And as I mentioned earlier, more than two-thirds of our Q4 cloud order entry
included AI.
Now, let's turn to our growth ambition for the year 2026 and beyond. Over the last years, we
have built a solid foundation for future growth, thanks to the successful execution of our
transformation. Building on this momentum, we are confident that we will further expand our
market share, grow cloud revenue, and accelerate total revenue growth through 2027. This
confidence is based on several key growth drivers. First, coming back to our total cloud backlog
of EUR77 billion. This grew by 30%. It outperformed our current cloud backlog growth by 5
percentage points. In short, we have a significant amount of our future cloud revenue in the
books. And given the ramps of the large deals over the next four years, we are increasingly
building a strong foundation for total revenue acceleration through 2027.
Second, we will continue converting our installed base to the cloud, with a multiplier of 2x to 3x.
Considering our support revenue base of EUR10.5 billion, this represents a multi-billion-euro
cloud revenue opportunity for us.Third, the vast majority of our cloud customers are expanding their SAP footprint across their SAP
Business suite. They now clearly see the value of best of suite over best of breed, especially in
the age of AI. So they leverage the best-of-suite approach not only to run their business
processes end to end, but they also seek a harmonized data platform that provides the
foundation for high-value Business AI. As a result, in Q4 alone, almost two-thirds of our deals
exceeding EUR1 million involved four or more lines of businesses, a remarkable increase of 25
percentage points. But we see this not only in increased up and cross-selling numbers, but also in
market share gains. Overall, we outperformed the cloud market by 10 percentage points in 2025.
Fourth, it is not just the world's largest enterprises that rely on SAP. With our Business suite in the
public cloud, SAP's mid-market business is growing too. We expand in the mid-market and we are
winning new customers through our partner-first strategy and the significant expansion of our
reseller ecosystem. This channel is already growing more than 1.5 times faster than our direct
business, and we will substantially increase the contribution from our ecosystem.
Finally, let's conclude with the growth driver that has the highest potential and is, of course, the
greatest strategic relevance by far, our Business AI and Business Data Cloud. The traction from
2025 is just the beginning. Many customers have seen that an LLM alone is not enough. They
need modules, business data, and context to build high-value AI use cases and derive business
value. So let me explain to you how we drive growth with SAP's unique combination of apps, data,
and AI.
First, Joule. We are reinventing the user experience and the way people work across all our apps
with our Copilot Joule. Unlike other digital co-workers, Joule doesn't just access the world's
leading LLMs. It also has broad access to business data. No matter the task, Joule is setting new
standards for user experience, simplicity, productivity, and will just redefine the future of work.
Second, embedded and extensible AI agents. We are embedding AI agents across the main
business processes of every company. Doing so, we are helping our customers to realize
efficiency through automation, make better decisions and gain agility across their value chain with
connected agents. To extend where differentiation is needed, we provide a powerful agent
builder with capabilities that are unique to SAP, such as the access to a semantical BDC data
product and the ability to benchmark and infuse agents directly into the business process layer
within our apps. Our pro-code offering serves the needs of our developers, while our business
users can use the agent builder in a low-code mode to easily build, deploy and manage AI
agents.
Third, we have always differentiated ourselves by our deep industry and business process
knowledge and coded high-value industry-specific applications. Now, we are reimagining these
strategic industry capabilities with AI. Together with some industry-leading customers, we are
already redefining mission-critical parts of an industry value chain by developing the next-
generation AI solutions, like redefining patient care in healthcare, delivering higher predictability
and supply chain resilience in manufacturing, and to run smarter trade promotions and
personalize the shopping experience in retail. Some of these industry AI use cases were already
crucial to the success of our Q4 deals.
Fourth, BDC addresses one of the biggest roadblocks for AI adoption that our customers face
today, data silos. BDC brings together SAP and non-SAP data, providing our customers with the
harmonized data they need to enable their agentic AI vision. In 2026, we will heavily accelerate
the development of data products to enrich the semantic layer for all of our customers.And fifth, accelerated ERP migration. Often customers spend 10x more on their ERP migration
compared to what they spend on their ERP software. With our integrated AI-powered migration
tool chain in the RISE Journey, we are shrinking this ratio by cutting the migration cost and making
it faster and easier for customers to realize value from their transformation.
Net-net, in all of the focus areas, SAP has a clear why to win. Together, they'll secure SAP's
position as the leading business AI company. Finally, to be credible in the AI market, we role
model the use of business AI, and kicked off an extensive AI transformation program internally.
We are using AI across all functions to unlock significant long-term operating profit potential. In
R&D, we see huge efficiency gains as the role of a developer is shifting from traditional code
writing toward designing, guiding, and validating AI-generated solutions.
In sales, Business AI will help us to better quote price, identify opportunities. In HR, Business AI will
help us better plan and transform our workforce. Every SAP leader across every function is
infusing AI into their business and drive the reskilling of our workforce. Because AI isn't just about
technology, it first needs to be enabled by our people. Altogether, our goal is to achieve a run
rate of around EUR2 billion in real cost efficiencies by the end of 2028. Thanks to the internal
usage of AI. This equates to efficiency gains of 15% to 20% of addressable cost, which also helps
us to reinvest into our AI roadmap.
So, to sum it all up, we closed 2025 with strong momentum. Our strategy is validated by our
customers, and we have all the ingredients to win in the age of AI. The groundwork is done and
2026 will be the year AI delivers enterprise-scale return on investment.
And with that, I'll hand over to Dominik.
`Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you very much, Christian. And thank you all for joining us this morning. I'd also like to wish
you all happy and healthy year 2026.
SAP's strong close to the year reflects steady execution against our priorities. As we navigated a
rapidly shifting macroeconomic backdrop at the beginning of the year, we remain focused on
operational discipline and driving value for our customers in times of unprecedented
technological change. Our ability to drive top line growth while consistently exceeding our
profitability and free cash flow expectations reflects the consistent execution against the outlook
we provided at the beginning of the year. While challenges persisted, we took deliberate steps
to reinforce our foundation and align the business for durable, sustainable performance. As a
result, we closed the year in a position of strength, and the progress we've made has set the
stage for continued advancement towards our financial and strategic priorities in the years ahead.
RISE and GROW with SAP both remain core pillars of our transformation strategy, serving as a go-
to solution for large-scale enterprises and high-growth mid-sized companies undergoing complex
end-to-end modernization efforts. And as highlighted by Christian, AI and the Business Data
Cloud are beginning to show real commercial impact, emerging as a meaningful contributor to
customer decision and deal activity.
This combined momentum continues to materialize in large cloud transactions with deal volumes
greater than EUR5 million contributing a record 71% to our total cloud order entry in the fourth
quarter. These results validate our role as a partner of choice, trusted by world-class
organizations and navigating high-stakes transformation at speed and scale.Now, let me provide more details around our financial highlights. Current cloud backlog reached
EUR21 million, up 25%. This is a more pronounced slowdown than what we had anticipated and
more than the slight deceleration we guided to at the beginning of last year. Echoing Christian's
remarks, this outcome reflects a deal mix weighted towards larger transformations, many of
which include longer ramp periods or flexible structuring, reducing their near-term CCB
contribution. Also, further mounting geopolitical tensions have led to many customers putting
even more emphasis on exploring sovereign SaaS options. While SAP is extremely well
positioned in this segment and we have a significant pipeline of opportunities due to the trust
Germany and SAP continue to enjoy on a global scale, it takes longer to negotiate these more
complex transactions and also longer to deploy and ramp as compared with plain vanilla offerings
of US Infrastructure as a Service vendors. This is particularly true for any state-owned and related
entities, as well as defense, but starts to also affect commercial customers in certain, particularly,
sensitive geographies and industries.
Total cloud backlog for the year grew 30% to a record EUR77 billion, again significantly exceeding
our current cloud backlog and cloud revenue growth. Cloud revenue actually grew 26% year-on-
year in 2025, again primarily driven by the strong performance of cloud ERP suite. Cloud ERP suite
had another notable year, reinforcing its position as a key engine of growth with an increase of
32% in 2025. And I want to make the remark, this is a constant currency number. In US dollar, the
number would be 2 percentage points higher, if you want to compare to competition. This
performance is especially meaningful given the expansion of its revenue base over time,
highlighting its ability to scale at a sustainable growth rate, now accounting for 86% of total cloud
revenue for the year. Software licenses revenue decreased by 27%. Finally, total revenue for the
full year approached EUR37 billion, up 11%.
Now let's take a brief look at our regional performance. For the full year, Brazil, France, Germany,
India, Italy, South Korea, and Spain all had outstanding performances in cloud revenue, but China,
Japan, Saudi Arabia, and the United Kingdom, as well as the US, were particularly strong.
Now down to the income statement. Our non-IFRS cloud gross margin for the full year continued
its upward trend from last year and expanded by 1.6 percentage points to 75%, driving cloud
gross profit up by 29%. In the fourth quarter, IFRS operating profit increased 27% to EUR2.6 billion.
Non-IFRS operating profit was up 21%. Both IFRS and non-IFRS operating profit growth were
negatively impacted by approximately EUR100 million related to a 2025 workforce
transformation. In addition, IFRS operating profit growth was negatively impacted by $200 million
related to Teradata litigation expenses.
For the full year, IFRS operating profit increased to EUR9.8 billion and non-IFRS operating profit to
EUR10.4 billion. The IFRS effective tax rate for the full year was 28.5%. The non-IFRS tax rate was
30.4%, which is below the outlook from approximately 32%, mainly resulting from an increasing
ability to offset foreign withholding taxes in Germany. Looking forward, we expect the midterm
non-IFRS effective tax rate to be in a range of 28% to 30% which is slightly lower than half lower --
which is in the lower half of the previously communicated range of 28% to 32%.
Free cash flow for the full year was rounded down EUR8.2 billion, i.e., at the very high end of our
revised outlook range of EUR8 billion to EUR8.2 billion. This increase was mainly attributable to
higher profitability and to lower payments for restructuring and share-based compensation. This
result reflects our continued emphasis on disciplined cash management and operating efficiency,
building on the progress we've made in strengthening the quality and consistency of our cash
flow over time.We are very proud of the progress we've made this year and the business momentum that
contributed to our strong net cash position. As a result, SAP has decided to further step up its
capital returns with a new two-year share repurchase program of up to EUR10 billion scheduled to
start in February. This decision reflects our confidence in the sustainable strengths of the business
and our continued commitment to returning capital to shareholders in a disciplined and balanced
way. Finally, non-IFRS basic earnings per share in fiscal year 2025 increased by 36% to EUR6.15.
Now, let's move on to our outlook. As you've probably seen in the quarterly statement published
earlier today, we have provided this year's outlook. By now, we expect CCB growth to
moderately -- to moderate slightly over the course of 2026. While some deceleration is
anticipated, it is expected to be meaningfully less than what we saw in 2025 in terms of
deceleration.
At the same time, we see a path for total revenue growth to accelerate, supported by the
foundation we've built and the continued strength of our business. And our operating profit
outlook reflects sustained operating discipline, driving our expense to revenue growth ratio
towards the lower end of our long-term operating leverage objectives of 80% to 90%, giving us
the opportunity to continue to drive non-IFRS operating profit growth significantly above revenue
growth. In addition, in 2026, we expect to generate a record free cash flow of approximately
EUR10 billion, supported by continued efficiency improvements and operational rigor. Overall, our
guidance reflects a balanced view of the opportunity ahead, grounded in disciplined execution
and an ongoing commitment to long-term value creation.
With 2025 now behind us, we move into 2026 focused on consistency, clarity and execution. The
groundwork we have laid across both transformation incentives -- initiatives and commercial
performance puts us in a strong position to deliver against the guidance we outlined today. While
geopolitical and trade tensions have taken a certain toll on our top line performance in 2025, the
growing need for sovereignty and resilience also offers unique opportunities for those vendors
that can offer technologies and tools to reduce dependencies from dominant offerings.
As the largest non-US software SaaS and PaaS vendor, there's no company better positioned
than SAP to satisfy this rapidly growing demand. Our strategy to design a stack which is not
locked into any particular IaaS vendor is particularly valuable in that respect. And our decision to
keep developing our powerful SAP converged cloud infrastructure, the sovereign infrastructure,
thereby preserving capability to run Infrastructure as a Service efficiently in our own data centers
provides us with another, now even more, valuable option to deploy our SaaS and PaaS offerings.
Despite an unpredictable macro and geopolitical environment, our strategy remains clear and our
execution is already driving meaningful progress across the business. Customers are choosing us
as their North Star to lead mission-critical change and we remain committed to helping them
move faster, scale smarter, become more sovereign, more resilient and modernize with
confidence.
Thank you. And we will now be happy to take your questions.
`Alexandra Steiger, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Dominik. And with that we'll now take your question. I would like to kindly remind you
to only ask one question when prompted. Operator, please open the line.
Questions And Answers
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, at this time we will begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator
Instructions) We will take our first question from `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley.
Q - `Adam Wood, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Hey, good morning, Christian, good morning Dominik. Thanks so much for taking the question.
Maybe if we go to, I guess, the main focus for investors on the CCB at the end of the year, you
spoke obviously at the end of the year of 25% being disappointed -- being disappointing, which is
unfortunately where we ended up. Could you maybe talk us a little bit through the end of the
fourth quarter close? Was it entirely that you had these large deals with later ramps and deals
with cancellation clauses in them, or did you also see some slippage? And maybe if that was also
the case, could you help us with what the pipeline looks like going into Q1? Obviously, if there was
slippage out of a very big Q4, that could mean a very good pipeline for the first quarter. And then
I appreciate you wanting to give these numbers to the big figure and not to the decimal point,
but unfortunately, I think for everybody, the kind of rounding up and rounding down would help.
Could you give us any insight into whether 25% and then 26%, adjusted for those effects is being
rounded down or rounded up?
And then maybe just finally, you talked about slight deceleration. I guess, everybody is going to
say, well, slight deceleration last year was 4 points. I guess, we could say 3 points organic. Is that
the same type of range that people should be thinking about, because I think that's initially where
people would go to? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks a lot, Adam. So, look, let me start with the CCB of 25%, as -- yes, we said in
October 26% would be the target. I mean, first, let me reiterate again. Compared to October, we
even overachieved our bookings plan and also the churn came out lower than expected. And we
also, very importantly, had stable discount rates. Now, why did we end up at 25%? What we have
seen is that during the course of Q4, actually, the deal mix has changed. We closed larger deals,
and, I mean, it's quite standard for a larger customer, oftentimes in the first year they are shifting
some smaller solutions to the cloud because the larger ERPs, that needs time, first, to figure out
how they would love to run their business processes. We talk about Clean Core, but of course,
there are also a lot of technical things to be figured out before you really lift and shift your most
mission-critical system to the cloud. So that was clearly, I would say, the largest factor.
And the second one is actually that we have seen that actually we perform much better in the
public sector and in some deals, you have a termination for convenience by law. So per se we are
not including this in the CCB, and that was the only mix effect, I would say, we had compared to
October. Again, bookings performance was ahead of plan. Now, for some of the larger deals
where there are slippages, I mean, in every quarter you have slippages. But I would say the
execution, the sales execution, was actually -- was really good. I mean, some of these larger
mega deals, what I was mentioning, is actually that some of them close, some of them not.
So, clearly, also for 2026, we see actually a better pipeline coverage than when we compare the
pipeline now compared to where we are at in 2025. Also, of course, one thing to consider what
Dominik also mentioned is sovereignty. I mean, in some countries of the world, in some
industries, obviously also deal cycles took a little bit longer. I mean, with the geopolitical tensions,
customers have more questions around sovereignty. And actually that also then reflects in longer
negotiation cycles.
Now, for 2026, what means marginal decline or slight decline over the year, definitely not a 4have seen in 2025. Also, again, given the strong pipeline what we have now at the beginning of
the year, also mentioning -- I mentioned the 90% of deals which included AI. I mean, we see an
even better trend for 2026. So you clearly see with BDC and AI customers are now not only doing
RISE to just reimagining their business model and drive to a Clean Core, we see now in more and
more deals that also of course AI and BDC is kicking in as another growth driver, also helping, of
course, the multiples of these skills.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Charlie Brennan with Jefferies.
Q - `Charles Brennan, Analyst, Jefferies `
Great. Good morning. Thanks for taking my question. I'll do two if I can. Firstly, everyone's
preoccupied with AI at the moment. I think you referred to a EUR2 billion saving at SAP over the
next couple of years. Can you talk to how that's going to flow through the business? Are you
going to extract that through natural churn in the organization, or do we have to think more
about, say, another restructuring program?
And then as you rewire the business towards a sort of AI age, how much of your R&D today do
you think is based on AI-driven tools, and how much of your output today is focused on AI as
opposed to some of the core products? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, talking about our internal transformation, obviously, it's for us super important to also be
credible to our customers, and indeed, I mean, all our business leaders already working with
actually our product management teams on implementing certain AI use cases. For the EUR2
billion, that will be reached obviously by -- first, we will have a heavily growing business and with
that we will just under-proportionally grow our cost and headcount base. And you will see the
efficiencies, obviously, in R&D. I mean, this is where the LLM modules alone can do magic,
especially on the code generation side. But in all other areas, obviously, our own AI foundation is
kicking in where heavily also you need business data to build those smart agents who can take
over a lot of the work what people are doing today. So today -- as of today, there is no
restructuring plan. Obviously, can you rule this out forever? No, but today I can tell you, we're
going to achieve that by just scaling our business way more than in the past with AI.
Now, on the R&D side, I mean, first what we did is -- I mean we have great talents in the
organization, but obviously these talents are oftentimes buried in development backlog. So
already last year we lifted and shifted a lot of our AI talents into the work to build the AI
foundation, to train our foundational module, to build those AI agents. So a lift and shift has
already happened. And so, for example, the things which are of course now becoming less and
less is code generation. So we already automated 35% of the code, and then obviously that will
increase now also again significantly this year. So, actually, the profile of a software developer is
already changing quite significantly within SAP, also again investing, and it's not a size of quantity
of people. It's really about getting the best people, the best data scientists, the best AI
developers on board to actually build what I just lined out with the five growth drivers within AI,
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Maybe on the R&D side, let's not forget that I think one of the challenges we used to face very
heavily is the enormous rigorous prioritization of what we're actually developing because there's
such a scarcity of topics we can go after versus -- in terms of opportunities there are. So, let's notforget that there is ample of wood to chop, so to speak, on R&D to do things that previously we
couldn't do using the modern technologies. And this is also why in terms of financial model, we
stick to our 80% to 90% operating leverage. Yes, we are going to be at the lower end of that in
2026. But the last thing we want to have is putting some mortgages on the top line. We really
want to push the top line very hard by aggressively investing. And so, we want to use these tools
to really push the envelope and secure innovation and top line and to be ahead of the pack.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Frederic Boulan, Analyst, Bank of America with Bank of America.
Q - `Frederic Boulan, Analyst, Bank of America `
Good morning, Christian and Dominik. If I can follow up on the AI side, we've seen growing
concerns about risks from AI impacting the enterprise SaaS. You made a strong pitch around the
kind of software, data, and agent ecosystem. It would be good to share in terms of AI traction,
what percentage of existing cloud customers currently using your AI offering. I mean, it's good to
have the kind of 90% of bookings now, including that, but would be good to see existing cloud
customers using the product, and give us a range of revenue uplift you're seeing, in particular,
with some of the customers where you've seen earlier adoption. From a risk standpoint, I mean, a
huge amount of concern in the industry about new tools out there. You made a pitch about the
relevance of your own models versus commoditized LLMs. But do you see any of your customers
starting to use different tools to respond to needs that they were previously addressed by SAP,
either in core ERP or across HCM, et cetera? Thank you very much,
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I can start. Dominik, please also comment. I mean, first, on number of customer -- customer
adoption. As I already said, customer adoption of Joule increased by ninefold, which is really
significant. Starting -- when I compare this back to the '25 [ph] January. And then second,
obviously, what we are seeing is of course now that we are developing skills, more users are
jumping on it. Customize the one thing, number of users. And what we see is actually in the cloud
base, a healthy penetration of our AI. Round about 60% of our customers are already using our AI
actively, 20% are on the way to it. But also please do not forget, and I know what the market is
fearing right now.
To give you one practical example -- or two. In the business world, in order to deliver high-value
AI, I mean, let's take code generation. Yes, of course, the LLMs can understand code, can find the
patterns, understand how people used to code and actually are super powerful on that. There is
no business data involved. Let's use a German customer. He actually started with an LLM to build
a cash flow agent. No value because why, the LLM would of course read certain emails, support
tickets and try to figure out why is this customer not paying. But what was completely missing is all
the business data, the inventory data, the financial bank statements, the other data on the
customer side, is there still a deal ongoing? Maybe that's blocking actually the payment of this
customer.
So, actually what we did is we used this LLM, we brought it together with our AI foundation and
our knowledge graph. And actually what the customer did, they removed actually over 200
predictive modules now which they build on their own using our AI foundation. And that example
you can actually replicate to every AI agent in the business world.
Second, we won a large deal with H&M. We actually built a prototype for them, I mean, and that's
what they are now going to implement on AI. We showed them the personalized shoppingexperience in commerce, obviously, also using an LLM. But we combine it again with our AI
foundation to better understand what did the consumer buy in the past, to understand better
patterns about what he clicked on the webpage, et cetera. Then we went into returns claims
management. Also that. We had this industry capability always in our portfolio. Now, we are
actually reimagining this industry capability with AI, making it smarter, making it more efficient
when it comes to returns claims management. So -- and that is a very good example. We closed
one of these mega deals, I personally was involved in. We didn't win it actually, again, only
because, hey, Cloud Clean Core, that was the thing what we did a year ago.
Now we are winning it because last-mile delivery. Again, this customer tried to reinvent last-mile
delivery with an LLM. Again, they were missing business data. We brought it together, we showed
them what we can build together with our AI foundation, and they were totally convinced. So to
make this very clear, we are winning deals because of AI, we are not losing deals because of AI.
And definitely, these deals are actually now leveraging AI to increase the win rate in Q4.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Maybe to give a little bit of financial color around that kind of winning deals, I'm always a little bit
nervous about how people compare our numbers to the industry. We have a constant currency
disclosure. But don't forget we had a massive devaluation of the US dollar. I think over the year it
was about 13% appreciation of the euro. So our constant currency performance in SaaS/PaaS, and
there's also a different strategy. I mean we are not investing massively in infrastructure. Actually,
you've seen infrastructure business decline. Frankly, that decline might slow as these sovereign
solutions become more prevalent, but still it will -- we will largely leverage third-party
infrastructure and there's a spree of investment appetite right now in this frothy [ph] business. So
we are not very concerned about lack of opportunities to leverage that infrastructure.
Now, what we focus on is SaaS and PaaS, and we have delivered in Q4 a whopping 27% constant
currency growth for that. If you transform that into comparable US dollar numbers, that's above
30%. Now, you have seen some of our competitors' dynamics and ServiceNow report numbers in
Q4, which are hovering around the 20s, I think 19% to 20%. You've seen our largest competitors,
some of them not even reaching 10%. And so, I'd say that is the evidence that we are actually
winning in AI as opposed to losing.
Operator
We'll take our next question from `Ben Castillo, Analyst, BNP Paribas with BNP Paribas.
Q - `Ben Castillo, Analyst, BNP Paribas `
Hi, good morning. Yeah, thanks, Christian [ph]. Lots of positives in here, lots of large deals in the
mix, the sovereign cloud opportunity, the high volume of AI and the backlog record TCB. So that
all sounds optically very encouraging. And if we were to pair that against -- we ultimately still have
CCB growth of sort of 25% in Q4 and still indicating the cloud revenues decelerate this year to
come. I guess, could you help us just think about the changing landscape here, that growing mix
of large deals in the pipeline that are converting, the longer deal ramps? How should we think
about that maybe midterm trajectory of total cloud revenue growth into '27 and perhaps beyond?
Just help us with how you think about that pace of cloud revenue growth, either deceleration or
scope for stabilization. Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `Yeah. I mean, good question. And for sure, when I'm looking back to October, there is definitely, I
mean, honestly also lessons learned at Q4, and we didn't see this in the forecast, but obviously,
when you are then going into a Q4, it's not unnatural actually that you have large deals, but you
see it in the order entry. I mean, we have this time really closed many more large deals. And
again, what should you do? I mean, we saw this then in the -- during the course of -- actually in
December, where customers then said, okay, deal done. And now we are doing the phasing. And
the phasing actually, I mean, should we now incentivize our people to keep the first 12 months
up? That would be the wrong thing to do, because again, it's against the nature of how these
transformations work.
And also, I don't want to discount the renewal base. At the end, what matters for the company on
the mid and the long term is the renewal base because that is what is driving the cloud revenue
and the profits actually on the long term. And so, when you look into 2026, I mean, Q1, Q2, Q3,
actually we are not having this larger share of large deals. And that's why we actually see -- we
will see a similar pattern. And about Q4, I mean, definitely when you look into our support
revenue base, there are still some larger customers. And we need to make sure that, especially
when it comes to the phasing of a deal, et cetera that we have that wide and -- but, again, I
would see there is definitely -- you can expect a similar pattern to what we have seen in 2025, I
mean, given what is left in the installed base. Yeah.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Maybe on the cloud revenue in terms of what we see going forward. First of all, we guided cloud
revenues now for '26. And maybe just looking back at '25, I venture to say that the accuracy of
forecasts on cloud revenues is actually by now extremely high. This is also due to the extremely
high share of recurring, more predictable revenues. And, yes, because all the macro mess being
tariff disputes or the kind of sovereign debate we just mentioned, we were a kind of mini-75
million away from the midpoint of the guidance at the end of '25. Against such a massive macro
backdrop, I feel a 0.5 percentage points variance to the midpoints on growth is almost like
forward accounting. So rest assured that our revenue guidance also for '26 is of a similar kind of
confidence level.
CCB forecast is always a little bit more difficult because as we just learned, the granularity of
what's exactly coming in the crystal ball is a little bit difficult. But I also want to highlight how you
think about the bridge from CCB growth and cloud revenues. And if you again do the math for
last year to calibrate your model, so to speak, it will be obvious, once we publish our results, you
will see the Executive Board compensation that we were thinking more of a couple of percentage
points decline as opposed to something bigger.
And then the two factors that weighed on us was, first, in the first half, it was this tariff debate
where the bookings were slower and then the factors Christian mentioned as a surprise towards
the year-end. So, also there I would argue that we do have our checks under control, how it kind
of translates. And when you translate the CCB of 2025 into 2026, please remember that the
transactional dilutive effect is becoming smaller. It used to be close to 1.5 percentage point last
year, and it will be diluted to less than a percentage point.
So I think the nice thing is about -- also when you look at the fill rate, I mean what percent of the
cloud revenues, adjusted for currency, yeah, there's always the problem. The CCB is at point
value which was an extremely high dollar change. The other values are at constant currency. If you
really depollute that, you see the coverage with CCB for next year is actually quite good. So that
also should give you some confidence about '26. And now going beyond that, I already
mentioned what slide kind of reasonably means. You can then work from there and assumefurther dilution of the transactional part. So this is how I would think about it. So it's actually
stabilizing in some way.
Operator
We'll take our next question from `Mohammed Moawalla, Analyst, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs.
Q - `Mohammed Moawalla, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Great. Thank you. Good morning, Christian. Morning, Dominik. My question was really on the TCB.
You talked a lot about sort of delays in recognizing some of this business into the CCB. We saw
quite a steep decel in the sort of CCB growth versus a year ago, almost sort of 9 to 10 points. Is
there any -- I know there's kind of the law of large numbers here, but is there anything you can
sort of comment on that's kind of going on here? Because you obviously talked about record
number of larger deals, so just want to better understand that dynamic.
And as a follow-up, could you update us perhaps on BDC and the momentum you're seeing?
You've signed up a flurry of many partners. How is that sort of pipeline shifting and what sort of --
do you expect in terms of contribution in 2026? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I can start with on the total cloud backlog. I mean, actually you said it really well. I mean, at
the end the number is getting of course much bigger. When you look at the absolute growth we
put on top, to Dominik's point, I don't see any other competitor producing similar kind of
numbers when it comes to the total cloud backlog, not even close. And this year, yes, there were
larger customers coming, but when you look at the RISE Journey, when we started this four years
back, actually of course we started with smaller customers, midsize customers, and now they are
these mega deals. And that will also continue and they will just take a higher fare [ph] in the
overall order entry of what we are converting to the cloud with RISE.
So I'm actually super proud also given that, I mean, the TCB is always then also, of course,
dependent on the contract duration, and that actually was stable. So we are not actually
increasing TCB with longer contract duration. We are actually increasing it by putting real business
on top. And that combined also with a lower churn, as we are closing more and more healthy
business, is actually for me a super positive sign also when it comes to the cloud revenue
development, not only in 2026 but then also for many, many years to come.
And then, finally, when you look into GROW, I mean, still it's a smaller business than -- compared
to our installed based business. But just last year, I mean, overall, we won over 3,000 net new
customers, and that is of course mid-sized customers, but they will grow over time. The up and
the cross-sell I mentioned of the business suite. So while the share of midsize, SME business
became smaller because some of the larger transactions happened and will happen, still this
business is growing really well, and we are adding a lot of new logos to SAP.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Maybe it's also worthwhile mentioning, if you look at the TCB minus CCB, which is basically the
backlog year two and the following years, it's -- actually that ratio is increasing. So it gives you also
more visibility in the outer years.
Operator
We'll take our next question from `Mark Moerdler, Analyst, Bernstein with Bernstein.Q - `Mark Moerdler, Analyst, Bernstein `
Sorry, had my mic off. Didn't want to cause an issue. So, I'd like to make sure that we're really
clear on the CCB, and I know it's been a lot of the questions put on it. Can you give some
ordering to what you think was the most impactful for why the number was less than the Street
might have expected? And can you also give us any sense on the economic impact of these
sovereign cloud deals? Does it impact revenue lift multiple or margin in any way, shape or form,
other than that it may take longer for the deals to close? Thank you.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I mean, the one factor, Mark, clearly which changed over the course of the quarter, and
again, it's absolutely positive for the years 2027-plus. I mean, we closed more larger deals. And
then when you think about the phasing of such a deal, I mean, first of all, you negotiate on the
business case, on the ROI, the AI use cases, you think about, okay, what are the pillars which are
really important. You think about, okay, do we go supply chain first, finance first, logistics, et
cetera.
And then during the course of the quarter, obviously, you start also then phasing those deals. And
as you then have many larger deals, and this was actually a quite significant shift, we actually saw
that a lot of the revenue moved out from the first 12 months to year two, three and four. That was
by far, by far, the highest impact we have seen compared to October.
On sovereign cloud, actually, no, I mean, the deal margins are almost the same. But what Dominik
already alluded to, I mean, the deal negotiation per se, I mean, we are running not only very
mission-critical ERP systems, we are also running customers in regulated industries. And they have
questions. They say, hey, what is happening if sanctions are coming, what is happening if there's
an export control coming, what is happening if this AI data protection regulation is now redefined,
et cetera.
So these discussions take just longer than they have been a year ago. And it's a reflection of what
is happening in the world. This is not a reflection of a demand issue. Actually it's good. Look, I
mean, I always also start these conversations with, look, when it comes to regulation, trust on one
thing, SAP has your back. I mean, we are spending over 1 billion on localization, on regulations, et
cetera. We are running these businesses in over 120 countries. So we know how to adhere to all
of these also new regulations. And I see this rather as a competitive advantage that we can
clearly say, hey, look, no matter where you want to do business or where you want to expand
your business, SAP will have a software and cloud solution for you in the different parts of the
world.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
And I'll also [ph] add, there is the certification step which is required in many countries. So we see
new offerings on the Infrastructure as a Service for sovereign in various countries almost
mushrooming up, I can say. And there are certain requirements in different countries. And we now
really see the first country certifying these products. So we are really at the -- in an embryonic
phase of what could become something really big. But it's really happening because the capital is
flowing there. The certification agencies are getting their arms around it, but it takes some time
to groom and mature these projects.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Toby Ogg, Analyst, JPMorgan with JPMorgan.Q - `Toby Ogg, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Yeah, hi. Hi, Christian and Dominik, thanks for the question. Just on the free cash flow guidance,
Dominik, of EUR10 billion, clearly well ahead of expectations and looks to imply a pickup in cash
conversion. I know we talked through the year about cash tax effects and the migration credit
headwinds. Could you just help us reconcile these headwinds with the better free cash flow
outlook and improved cash conversion you're now expecting? Thank you.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. I would say the upside is from two sources. Partially from operational further improvements,
which we have matured to a point that we feel comfortable guiding it now. But also from the fact
that the delta on stock-based compensation between the P&L and cash is increasing. You've
seen it already now in the numbers. You will see that in '25. So it's a little bit higher. We've always
said, take the effective tax rate of the non-IFRS operating profit, add back round about a billion.
So now I say round about a billion-plus. So that gives us a part of the upside. And the good news
is that's sustainable. So that's the new base, basically, to jump off.
Now on the transformation credits, it's always the game of the overall working capital. It's not the
only item there. And from that perspective, for 2026, this is the best estimate we can give today.
And, yeah, we also make sure that we have no mortgages in the future and can stick to that very
simplistic formula with the noise that always will be there around the phasing of certain payments.
But that's the trend.
A - `Alexandra Steiger, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Great. Well, thank you, Dominik. And this concludes our call for today. Thank you all for joining.
A - `Christian Klein, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Dominik Asam, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, the conference is now concluded, and you may disconnect your
telephone. Thank you for joining, and have a pleasant day. Goodbye.