Q4 2014 Earnings Call
Company Participants
Company Representative
Friedrich Eichiner
Norbert Reithofer
Other Participants
Adam B. Hull, Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co. KG (United Kingdom)
Arndt A. Ellinghorst, International Strategy & Investment (UK) Ltd.
Georges Dieng, Natixis SA (Broker)
Harald C. Hendrikse, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc
Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker)
Jochen Gehrke, Deutsche Bank AG (Broker)
Michael Raab, Kepler Capital Markets SA (Germany)
Stefan A. Burgstaller, Goldman Sachs International
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Company Representative `
So good morning, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Analyst and Investor Conference of the
BMW AG. I hope you all had a pleasant evening last night and an insightful start during the
roundtable discussion with experts of BMW Group.
About the course of this event, as usual, we will start with a statement about our business
development from Dr. Norbert Reithofer, Chairman of the Board of Management of BMW AG.
Next, Dr. Eichiner, board member for Finance, is going to inform you about the financial
performance 2014. This will be followed by a Q&A session in which you have a chance to ask
questions. After that, we would like to invite you to have lunch with us.
Ladies and gentlemen, now I would like to hand over to Dr. Reithofer.
Norbert Reithofer `
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Our long-term decisions laid out in our Strategy Number
ONE are paying off. In the period from the end of 2007 to the end of 2014: our deliveries
increased by over 40%; Group revenues rose by 44%; our pre-tax profit more than doubled; and
BMW common stock performed significantly better than the DAX. This shows the BMW Group
has reached a new level of performance and this underlines our determination to drive
innovation. We remain confident that mobility will remain a basic human need and that's why
individual mobility remains our business model today and in the future.
Taking on our share of responsibility for society includes all of our employees around the world as
well as our shareholders. They all expect the BMW Group to deliver a long-term increase in value,
based on healthy and organic growth. The trust that we have earned is based on our being a
successful company. This is why we need to constantly challenge ourselves every day and
continually ask the right questions and always find new answers. How can we maintain our
company's future viability? We have proven many times in our history that we have the ability to
break new ground in technological, structural and cultural endeavors.The car next to me is just one example of our innovative strength. The new BMW plug-in hybrid,
it's an X5 as you can see. The specs are impressive: 3.3 liters of fuel per 100 km; energy
consumption of 15.3 kilowatt per hour; and emissions of 77 grams CO2 per kilometre. This model
benefits from the technology transfer from the BMW i family. Our early commitment to
sustainable mobility is paying off. Now, we are electrifying all our model series, step by step.
Nonetheless, our entire industry continues to face great challenges ahead. There are, however,
opportunities as well for new business areas, new customer groups and further growth.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to touch upon four main points today: first, our performance in
2014; second, our new models and our targets for 2015; third, our guidelines for future success;
and fourth, the BMW Group's centennial.
Let's start with our performance in 2014. This was the fifth record year in a row for the BMW
Group since the global economic crisis. Group earnings before tax increased significantly by
10.3% to €8.7 billion. The net profit rose by 9.2% to over €5.8 billion. The EBIT margin for the
Automotive segment stood at 9.6% and thus at the upper end of our target range of 8% to 10%.
2014 was the first year we delivered over 2 million vehicles. Group sales figures rose 7.9% to
more than 2.1 million vehicles. This new record means that the BMW Group has held the lead in
the global premium segment for over a decade now.
Let me give you an overview of the sales figures by brand: BMW, over 1.8 million vehicles; MINI,
over 302,000 cars; Rolls-Royce, exactly 4,063 motor cars; and BMW Motorrad, more than
123,000 motorcycles. BMW, Rolls-Royce and BMW Motorrad all achieved new records. And MINI
was almost on par with the previous year's level. As you know, the brand introduced the latest
generation of its core model. I mean, of course, MINI. Now, MINI is back on the up. In January and
February 2015, MINI reached a new sales peak.
Our BMW i brand has an especially strong appeal. At the same event last year, I showed you the
BMW i8. From June to December 2014, we delivered 1,741 BMW i8 vehicles to customers.
Demand for the BMW i8 continues to outstrip production, even so we have already doubled our
output. This clearly demonstrates the i8's perfect plan of sustainability and emotional appeal. In
its first year in the market, our BMW i3 already ranks third among all fuel electric cars sold
worldwide. Four out of five BMW i3 buyers are new customers for BMW. Today, BMW i is present
in 32 countries. All in all, we delivered around 17,800 BMW i vehicles to customers in 2014.
The number of electric vehicles on the road is still low especially here in Germany. We can see a
clear connection between sales figures and political initiatives. Whenever governments offer
tangible incentives for immobility, the registration figures for the BMW i3 soar. In the U.S., we sold
about 6,000 BMW i3s in 2014; almost half of them went to customers in California. In Norway, we
sold about 2,000 i3s. That is a 22% share of all BMW vehicles sold in Norway in 2014.
Now, let's look at our home market, Germany where around 2,100 customers decided to
purchase an i3, but that's less compared to Norway. That's less than 1% of our total BMW sales in
this country. What these figures clearly show is that a constructive political framework truly makes
a difference in a market.
Ladies and gentlemen, the German car manufacturers have delivered their part of the bargain.
The ball is now in the court of policy-makers, especially here in Germany. A new Electric Mobility
Act is a step in the right direction. But beyond that, we need a serious debate about the right
tools to ensure Germany picks up the pace when it comes to electric mobility. Other countries are
already way ahead. Really, I would like to say way ahead. In China, the BMW i3 is not subject tothe restrictive procedure limiting licence plates in Shanghai, which reduces the cost by over
€10,000.
In California, electric cars can use the Carpool Lanes on highways and they also get attractive
financial incentives. And Norway has a well-established charging infrastructure. Electric cars charge
and park for free. There's also no VAT or registration tax for such vehicles. The BMW Group
strongly supports the building of a charging infrastructure in China, the EU and the U.S. for private
customers as well in the public domain. We are fostering synergies between e-mobility and car
sharing. The BMW i3 is about to join our DriveNow fleet, in London in spring, in San Francisco from
May, where it will replace the successful BMW ActiveE, in Hamburg, Berlin and Munich from July.
This is one way to improve the acceptance of electric cars and gain access to younger
generations.
Intelligent mobility services have been a central part of our strategy from the very beginning. In
Germany, DriveNow is already profitable and the number of users continued to grow. At the end
of 2014, DriveNow had about 390,000 registered customers and in early March, there were
420,000 members. New cities are joining the program. Last year, we added London and Vienna
and we are expanding now DriveNow further, adding ten cities in North America and up to 15
cities in Europe. We hold strong in our belief that the future of mobility has to be sustainable. The
increasing political regulations on climate protection as well as continuing urbanization and all its
consequences are proof of this.
The following key technologies are part of our roadmap to meet the increasing challenges of
regulation: Efficient Dynamics, hybridisation and electric mobility. At present, our European fleet
average for emissions stand at 130-gram of CO2 per kilometre. You know where we come from.
We come from 210 gram, we moved from 210 grams to 130 grams since 1995. We are now
applying our expertise and the experiences gained with BMW i to our conventional models. The
new BMW 7 Series, for example, will set new standards when it comes to intelligent lightweight
construction. And besides our technological advancement, our strategic market position is
another success factor.
Once again, we recorded balanced growth in the largest world regions in 2014. Europe
accounted for about 43% of our sales volume, Asia for 31%, and the Americas for close to 23%.
Europe is still our most important sales region. In 2014, China was our largest individual market.
However, we have long said that the Chinese market will slow to a more normal pace. Just last
week, the Chinese Government also made it clear, this is the new normal. Slower economic
growth will also affect the automotive industry and we continue to consider this in our strategic
planning. We also achieved solid growth on the American continent last year. Strategically, the U.S.
remains a key market, it is our second home.
Profitable growth continues to be the aim of our company. This is why we invest in our people and
their vocational training. In September 2014, more than 1,500 apprentices began their
professional career with the BMW Group, 1,200 of them in Germany. All in all, the BMW Group is
currently training 4,595 young people, that's 150 more than the previous year. For over 40 years,
our employees have participated in the company's success. For 2014, all permanent staff in
Germany will once again receive a profit-related bonus.
Ladies and gentlemen, technological change is omnipresent. To keep our workforce up to date,
we invested €335 million in vocational training and professional development programs last year.
€335 million. This is a new record. We spend about the same amount of money on training every
year as one of the larger German universities. Since 2007, we have invested over €1.8 billion in
training our staff. Providing our people with opportunities for growth is how we ensure our futureas an attractive employer. We are listed in many rankings as best employer, including the recent
studies carried out by the XING career network and by the research institute trendence.
Now, let me move on to my second point. Our new models and our targets in 2015. In total, we
are launching 15 new models and model updates of BMW and MINI brand vehicles this year. In
addition to this, we are also launching five new BMW motorcycles. The BMW 2 Series Grand
Tourer celebrated its world premier at the Geneva Motorshow. It is the first highly functional BMW
with up to seven seats. In the smaller vehicles class, this type of car shows the highest growth
rate. The 2 Series Gran Tourer is the first premium offering in this segment. Just like the BMW 2
Series Active Tourer, we want to conquer new customers for BMW especially in Europe. The 2
Series Gran Tourer will be the first model in its segment available with optional all-wheel drive.
This model is due to be launched in June.
The new BMW 2 Series Convertible has been available since the end of February. And on the
occasion of its tenth anniversary, we completely revised the BMW 1 Series. Part of this model
range is also BMW's new CO2-champion. The 116d needs just 3.4 liters of fuel per 100 kilometre
and emits only 89 grams of CO2 per kilometre. Its three-cylinder engine was previously
introduced in the BMW 2 Series Active Tourer. The new BMW 1 Series will arrive at dealerships in
late March.
We have sold more than 86,000 units of the current generation BMW 6 Series in the last four
years. Now, we have updated the Convertible, Coupé, Gran Coupé and the respective M models.
Our BMW M vehicles are more popular than ever. More than 45,000 customers bought an M or
M Performance vehicle in 2014. That's a new record for M. The new BMW X5 M and the new BMW
X6 M will go on sale in spring. By the way, the safety car in the premier league of motorcycle
racing, the MotoGP, is also a BMW M model.
As a world first, the new BMW M4 Safety Car utilizes our innovative water injection technology. It
provides a significant increase in performance, while reducing fuel consumption and emissions.
The benefit of our water injection technology will soon be available for our M customers as well.
This year our MINI brand will have an exceptionally young portfolio. Last year, we launched the
new MINI three-door model and 55 years after the first MINI ever, we put the first MINI five doors
on the road. In 2015, we will present the new MINI Clubman. The concept car shows pretty much
where MINI is headed. Since then, the management board has decided that MINI will be
concentrating in the future on five models, each with its own strong character. And MINI will offer
electrified solutions as well.
Since 2003, Rolls-Royce has established an impressive track record in the ultra-luxury segment.
The Phantom is often imitated, never duplicated. The Ghost has tapped new target groups for
the brand. And the Wraith combines the pinnacle of automotive luxury with the pleasure of
actually being in the driver's seat. In the future, we are going to offer a Rolls-Royce that provides
maximum luxury and ease, of course, both off and on-road. According to experts, the global car
markets are likely to continue their growth trend this year. With our attractive model range, we
are well positioned to capitalize on this trend.
Our targets for the business year 2015 are as follows: we aim to achieve solid growth in both
sales and earnings before tax on Group level. We intend to remain the world's leading premium
car company and we strive to remain in our target range of 8% to 10% for the EBIT margin in the
Automotive segment. As always, our forecasts assume the economic conditions worldwide to
remain stable and won't deteriorate. However, many uncertainties remain. Important markets like
China are losing momentum. The BRIKT markets are developing unevenly. And moreover, there
are also political uncertainties and flash points around the world. In simple terms, volatility is thenew constant in today's business world. In the first two months of this year, the BMW Group
delivered 7.3% more cars to customers than during the same period in 2014. That's a new record.
We have improved in all sales regions worldwide.
Moving now to my third point: our blueprint for future success has always been: take the long
view. In doing so, it's crucial to find the right balance between participating in the growth of the
global premium market, while maintaining the terrific desirability of our premium brands with our
customers. To achieve this, let me touch on three points in particular: first, our global production
network; second, sustainable value creation; and third, digitalization and connected services.
We are strategically expanding our global production network. In Brazil, the first car rolled off the
assembly line at our new plant in Araquari, last October. In Mexico, we are building a new
production site, due to go on stream in 2019. Production output is planned to be up to 150,000
cars. In China, we are strengthening our local production at Shenyang. In the future, we are going
to produce locally six BMW models – at the moment, three – in future, six BMW models
specifically for the Chinese market. We have extended our joint venture with Brilliance ahead of
time until 2028.
In the United States, we announced a capacity expansion to 450,000 cars annually at our
Spartanburg plant's 20th anniversary celebration. This expansion equals an entire new plant. The
U.S. is open to innovation. For this reason, people and robots have been working side by side on
the Spartanburg line since last year. This relieves workers of particularly straining physical task,
protecting their health in the long term. In Germany, we are also investing further in our facilities.
By 2018, we are expanding our Research and Innovation Center, FIZ, in Munich. The German
automotive industry is a driver of innovation, not only in research and development but also in
production. It strengthens Europe's position on the global stage.
My second point, as I see it, being a good corporate citizen means that how you produce is just
as important as what you produce. Since 2006, we have reduced resource consumption and
emissions per unit produced by 45% on average. And in 2014, we reached an important
milestone. As a first, we procured more than half of the energy we needed for production from
renewable sources. Onto my third point, digitalization and connected services for our customers.
Digitalization is a major differentiator and growth driver, particularly for premium manufacturers.
For the BMW Group, connectivity is a given in our customers' everyday life. They expect our
vehicles to provide them with full access to the digital world around them. With ConnectedDrive,
we have been offering connectivity services for almost two decades now.
Let me give you just three examples. First, the maps for our navigation systems are automatically
updated over the air via a permanently installed SIM card. Second, with our ParkNow app, drivers
can simply book and pay for parking spots from their cars. The app can be downloaded directly
to the car from the new ConnectedDrive Store, which is already up and running in Germany,
Belgium and Luxembourg. In further countries like the U.S., the ConnectedDrive Store is going to
launch this spring. Third, intelligent in-vehicle gesture recognition is going to complement the
operation of the iDrive system in the future. The new feature will allow the driver to accept or
decline calls via hand signals.
What can the customer expect from the BMW Group when it comes to connectivity? Even greater
comfort, state-of-the-art connective technology to the world beyond the vehicle, and more
importantly increased safety for driver and passengers. Without a doubt, no matter what we do,
Freude am Fahren will remain an absolute must. However, in our vehicles, it will always be the
driver's choice to decide when to steer and when to hand over to technology. No matter whatoption they choose, the customer can be sure of always having the ultimate driving machine to
enjoy.
With our Vision Zero, we are gradually implementing entirely collision-free driving. We recently
presented our new 360-degree collision prevention system in a BMW i3 at CES in Las Vegas. The
system can reliably identify obstacles and apply the brake in order to prevent accidents. Even
today, we offer many driver assistance systems, such as traffic jam assistant and active speed
control. Our future models will be able to drive themselves in certain situations, such as in parking
garages. If desired, the car finds its own parking spot without the driver being involved. We have
shown this system with the BMW i3. And upon returning to the garage, drivers can summon their
car using a Smartwatch.
Technologically speaking, a lot is already feasible when it comes to highly automated driving.
However, as far as legislation is concerned, we are moving into uncharted waters. The debate on
the regulatory framework has only just begun, in Brussels as much as in Berlin, Washington,
Beijing or Tokyo. It raises many fundamental questions that need to be clarified. Who carries
responsibility for what driver, manufacturer, insurance company, service provider? Which data
enters and leaves the car and under which conditions?
Our position at the BMW Group is clear on this subject. We want to make life easier for the driver
at all times. We want to improve people's safety. And most of all, we want to protect their privacy.
These are the conditions under which we are developing individual mobility further responsibly
and to benefit of our customers. Today, the BMW Group is 99 years old. This achievement is built
on many factors: our ability to create incredible brands, and fascinating cars for our customers as
well as our passion for innovation, and commitment to taking a long-term view. On March 7, 2016,
we will celebrate our centennial.
This brings me to my last point the BMW Group turns 100. Each era must face its own challenges
and each era requires its own new and innovative solutions. We have laid a solid foundation for
the coming era. We will continue to chart our future course, as we believe it should be with
confidence and determination. It is only by continually challenging ourselves that we can create
our own future.
We have a solid financial footing, which is crucial to support future-oriented investment activities
and innovations. Our premium brands are globally recognized and highly appealing to customers.
Just recently, Fortune Magazine once again ranked the BMW Group as the only European
company in its top 15 list of the World's 500 Most Admired Companies. And last but not least,
every one of us at the BMW Group is driven by our passion to take premium mobility to the next
level.
As for myself, it has been a great honor and in many ways, a privilege for me to be at the head of
this passionate team for the last 8.5 years. Having said that, the team I'm leaving knows very well
just how much there is to do in the years to come. New trends and challenges will present new
opportunities and possibilities for everyone on board. This is why the decision was taken to make
a change within the management board before our company's centennial. As you all know, my
colleague on the management board, Harald Krüger, will succeed me as chairman of the
management board following the AGM on May 13.
The future belongs, ladies and gentlemen, to the next generation. It is for them to shape the
company's further development according to their vision. This is my last analysts and investors
conference. I would like to thank my colleagues on the management board for everything we
have accomplished together. And I would also like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, as therepresentatives of the financial community. I'm convinced that this company, with all its drive and
incredible spirit, will remain dynamic; this company will definitely be spearheading the future of
individual mobility; this company will continue to be a responsible business partner, wherever we
operate around the world. Thank you very much.
Company Representative `
Thank you very much, Norbert Reithofer. Now Friedrich Eichiner.
Friedrich Eichiner `
Ladies and gentlemen, a warm welcome from my side as well. Innovation, flexibility and continuity,
these are the key factors to our success. Our approach has always been to drive innovation
forward, and to adapt flexibly to volatile conditions.
Our long-term strategic targets keep us on track. The BMW Group achieved its earnings and
profitability targets last year. The Automotive segment achieved an EBIT margin of 9.6%, which
was at the upper end of our target range of 8% to 10%. At Group level, the EBT margin increased
to 10.8%. The company remained on course despite economic and political challenges, especially
in the second half of the year. BMW Group revenues reached a new all-time high in 2014 and
exceeded €80 billion for the first time. This increase of 5.7% over the previous year was
generated by all operating segments. Revenues were primarily sales-driven; adjusted for
currency translation effects, revenues increased by 6.8%.
Group earnings before tax reached €8.71 billion and were therefore significantly higher than the
previous year, in line with our guidance, with an increase of 10.3% year-on-year. The retrospective
application of the new international accounting standards IFRS 10 and 11 has led to adjustments
relating to financial year 2013. A further adjustment was also made relating to a misallocation in
the balance sheet between deferred tax and current tax liabilities in the U.S. These adjustments
also impacted the segment's financial services and other entities. The Group financial statements
had been restated retrospectively in accordance with IAS 8 and described on the note 9 in the
Annual Report.
In the final quarter of 2014, the BMW Group reported its highest-ever fourth-quarter retail sales,
with significant gains over the previous year. Higher volumes and currency tailwinds resulted in a
significant increase in revenues to €22.66 billion. As expected, various product and technology
projects led to higher fourth-quarter costs. Expenses for sales and marketing activities and
expansion of IT infrastructure also increased. Group pre-tax earnings therefore remained on par
with the previous quarter of €1.87 billion.
For the final quarter of 2014, the Automotive segment reported an EBIT margin of 8.2%, which
remains within our target range of 8% to 10%, despite the high level of expenditure. Securing the
future of the company is extremely important to us, which brings me to our research and
development activities and capital expenditure for last year. The BMW Group reported capital
expenditure of €6.1 billion for property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, primarily in the
Automotive segment.
The main focus was on structural investment in plants and product investment in new models,
such as the future 7 Series Sedan, the 2 Series Active Tourer and the upcoming 2 Series Gran
Tourer. The MINI core model was newly launched as a three- and five-door model. Through
expansion of its model line-up and production capacity worldwide, the BMW Group is paving the
way for future sales growth. We expand our global production network with investments in the
Americas, Asia, and Europe.In 2014, we continued to expand our American plant in Spartanburg, South Carolina, where we
intend to increase capacity to 450,000 units by 2016. At the same time, we continue to expand
our production footprint with plants in Brazil and Mexico. The expansion of our production
structures in China is also proceeding well. Last year, structural investments mostly benefited the
new engine plant being built by our joint venture, BMW Brilliance Automotive. The plant will be
ready for our extended model line-up in 2016, as previously announced. Last year, we announced
an early contract extension for our successful joint venture in China, together with our decision to
build three additional, locally-produced vehicles. In Germany, investment focused on Dingolfing
and Leipzig plants.
The CapEx ratio for 2014 stands at 7.6%, which is clearly lower than the 8.8% of the previous year.
This year ratio should continue to move closer to our target of below 7% of revenue. Ladies and
gentlemen, the BMW Group continued to renew its line-up in 2014 with no fewer than 16 new
models and life-cycle impulses launched last year. As a large premium manufacturer, the BMW
company drives technological innovation forward. Research and development remained focused
on innovative drive concepts, lightweight design and connectivity between the vehicle and its
surroundings.
In 2014, the BMW Group rolled out the new Efficient Dynamics engine generation, further
reducing new vehicle fleet emissions. The modular engine system comprises highly-efficient
three-cylinder, four-cylinder and six-cylinder drive trains with lower weight and turbo technology to
ensure driving pleasure and dynamic driving performance. Commonalities within the ultra-efficient
engine family enable economies of scale and a high level of flexibility. Plug-in hybrid technology,
combining both combustion engine and electric motor, was implemented in a series-produced
vehicle for the first time in 2014 in the BMW i8. Additional models will be fitted with the innovative
eDrive system this year.
Our model line-up has undergone a significant expansion. In 2014, the 2 Series Active Tourer
introduced front-wheel-drive architecture in a series-produced BMW vehicle. Like our X models,
these new compact models are geared towards new customer target groups, which includes
many for whom the BMW brand had not yet the right offer. The new rear-wheel-drive architecture
is virtually ready for series production and will be implemented in our future models.
Developments in the area of connectivity and drive assistant systems, all the way to highly-
automated driving, expanded our innovation portfolio in 2014.
The BMW Group once again pioneered new technology, for example, by testing the first highly-
automated driving prototype under high-performance conditions last year. The test car proved on
the racetrack that it could drive to the limit even without a driver. The company's total research
and development expenditure for 2014 totaled almost €4.57 billion. This is 4.7% lower than the
previous year, as planned, but still at a high level. This total included investment in capitalised
development costs of nearly €1.5 billion. At 32.8%, the ratio of capitalised development costs was
lower than the previous year.
The R&D ratio of 5.7% was also lower than the previous year's figure of 6.3% and just outside our
target range of 5% to 5.5%. The company plans to maintain this ratio at the same level again this
year. Ladies and gentlemen, we also want our shareholders to have an appropriate share in the
success of BMW AG. At this year's Annual General Meeting, the Board of Management and
Supervisory Board will propose a dividend of €2.90 per share of common stock and €2.92 per
share of preferred stock for the 2014 financial year. In each case, this represents an increase of
€0.30 over the previous year. This is the highest dividend the company has ever paid. The
resulting dividend payment totals €1.9 billion. Nearly 33% of our net profit for the year will be paid
out to shareholders. The pay-out ratio is therefore within our target range of 30% to 40%.I would now like to talk about earnings performance in the segments. First, the Automotive
segment. With almost 2.12 million deliveries, the BMW Group sold more than 2 million vehicles for
the first time last year and met its strategic sales target for 2016 early. Thanks to its attractive
line-up, the company has been able to share the global automotive market growth.
The Automotive segment benefited from solid sales gains of almost 8%. Higher BMW and Rolls-
Royce vehicle sales improved the vehicle mix last year and contributed to higher profitability. Due
to the MINI model change brand sales remained nearly on par with the previous year. Automotive
segment revenues for 2014 totaled €75.17 billion. This represents a solid increase of 6.4% over
the previous year. EBIT for the Automotive segment climbed 8.9% year-on-year to reach €7.24
billion. The EBIT margin of 9.6% remains at the upper end of our target range of 8% to 10% and
higher than the previous year.
The 2013 to 2014 EBIT walk shows an additional €1.67 billion in earnings from higher volumes and
positive mix and market effects. The balance from currency effects and changes in raw material
prices dampened earnings slightly due to depreciation of the ruble, for example, and other non-
core currencies. Higher depreciation had a negative effect of €423 million on EBIT. Higher capital
expenditure after commissioning of new equipment and production ramp-ups for new models
increased depreciation year-on-year. Under the item, other changes, the balance of negative
€663 million, positive efficiency gains in the several hundred million euro range were offset
against additional expenditure, in particular, personnel and marketing costs.
The focus on future projects and global capacity expansion generated higher personnel costs.
New employees were hired at the Spartanburg and Leipzig plants, for example, as well as for the
new plant in Brazil. The company also recruited experts for expansion of new technology areas.
At the end of 2014, the BMW Group employed a total workforce of 116,324 people.
Let's take a look at the cash flow statement. Free cash flow in the Automotive segment totaled
€3.48 billion in 2014. We have adjusted the presentation in our cash flow statement. Investments
in term deposits, the term of longer than three months, were previously reported as cash outflow
from operating activities under the item other operating assets and liabilities. These time
deposits have been reclassified as cash outflow from investment activities. This resulted in an
increase in operating cash flow of €500 million for the previous year with a corresponding impact
on cash flow from investment activities. Since free cash flow is by definition adjusted for
investments in marketable securities and term deposits, free cash flow for the previous year
increased by €500 million.
Free cash flow for 2014 was €478 million higher than the adjusted figure for 2013. We will be able
to pay this year dividend from our free cash flow, which testifies to our company's financial and
operating strength. We aim to generate a strong free cash flow once again in 2015. A decreasing
CapEx ratio and continued sales growth should support this goal. We are maintaining our target
of more than €3 billion. The BMW Group's liquidity position remained extremely strong in 2014. At
the end of the year, Group liquidity totaled €11.66 billion. The company has excellent credit ratings
and good access to capital markets. This assures the BMW Group the financial flexibility it needs
for its operating business and growth even in a volatile environment.
Now, let's move on to the Financial Services segment. BMW Group Financial Services overcame
growing competition to reach new heights in 2014. New business with retail customers increased
2.6% to almost 1.51 million contracts. The volume of new business, the total volume of all new
financing and leasing contracts, climbed 5.3% to almost €41.32 billion. At the end of 2014, BMW
Group Financial Services managed a total portfolio of 4.36 million contracts with retail customers
and dealers. Compared with the previous year, the number of new vehicles leased or financed byFinancial Services decreased by 2.3 percentage points. At the end of the year, the penetration
rate stood at 41.7%. This reflects deliberate management of business in a highly competitive
environment.
As in the previous year, the Asia/Pacific region was the main growth driver, with a 20.1% increase
in the local contract portfolio. In the Europe/Middle East/Africa region, the segment posted
growth of 6.5%; while business in the Americas increased by 4%. Financial Services now has
operations in more than 50 countries worldwide. The segment's business areas performed well
in the year under review. Our fleet services provided Alphabet increased its fleet portfolio to
more than 555,000 contracts. In the area of multi-brand financing, the contract portfolio grew by
3% to almost 460,000 units. Insurance business also saw significant growth with more than 2.87
million insurance policies in place at the end of the year.
The segment reported pre-tax earnings of €1.72 billion in 2014, an increase of 6.4% over the
figure of the previous year. Financial Services earned a return on equity of 19.4% in 2014, meeting
our return on equity target of at least 18%. Our balance sheet equity ratio stood at 8.8% at the
end of the financial year, maintaining Financial Services' solid capital equity position and providing
adequate coverage for unexpected risks.
Ladies and gentlemen, the segment's risk situation continued its stable, positive development in
2014. Mirroring economic developments, used car prices for off-lease vehicles were robust. In the
main leasing markets of the U.S., the UK and Germany, average residual value losses were largely
unchanged from the previous year and therefore lower than expected. The net credit loss ratio
for our credit portfolio remained at the same comparatively low level as in 2013.
Financial Services makes comprehensive risk provisions to hedge business-related risks. Global
risk management based on tested, uniform methods is a key element of our risk prevention
strategy and will be further expanded worldwide. From today's perspective, the BMW Group
looks to be in a good position to deal with business risk in 2015. We expect the risk environment
to remain largely stable, but cannot rule out the possibility that cyclical fluctuations of the
economy will affect our Financial Services business.
Now, let's look at our Motorcycles segment. 2014 was a very successful year for BMW Motorrad.
The brand outperformed the overall market once again and benefited from the positive market
environment. With almost 123,500 deliveries, BMW Motorrad reported solid sales growth of 7.2%,
with gains in its key markets. The brand also increased volumes in Europe, which is the largest
region, accounting for 60% of total sales. Germany remained the brand's largest single market
with around one-fifth of deliveries. BMW Motorrad was once again segment leader in this market.
BMW Motorrad also made significant gains in its second-largest market, the United States.
Motorcycle production in Brazil and Thailand also made a successful contribution to globalisation
of sales.
The top-selling motorcycle was once again the large long-distance Enduro, the R 1200 GS, which,
together with its sister model, the R 1200 GS Adventure, was delivered to more than 40,600
customers. Our anniversary roadster, the R nineT, made a successful start and marks the brand's
entry into the New Heritage segment. The R nineT is the first BMW Motorrad available in different
versions with many customisable elements. In this way, we are reaching out to new customer
groups not previously accessible to BMW Motorrad. In its first year, the R nineT instantly became
the brand's third most popular model. The Motorcycles segment exceeded the previous year's
record revenues and EBIT. Revenues for the year climbed to almost € 1.68 billion, a significant
increase of 11.6% year-on-year. Adjusted for currency effects, segment revenues rose by 14%.In 2014, BMW Motorrad achieved an EBIT of €112 million, an increase of 41.8% over the previous
year, mainly due to higher sales volumes. BMW Motorrad will release five new models in 2015. Mr.
Stephan Schaller, Head of BMW Motorrad, will present them to you here after 1 PM. BMW
Motorrad made a very successful start to 2015. The brand delivered almost 14,500 motorcycles
in the year to the end of February – an increase of 14.2% over the same period of last year. Over
the full year, we anticipate a slight recovery in the global motorcycle markets, with continued
positive development in Europe and the United States. We therefore expect BMW Motorrad to
sustain its successful business performance.
Ladies and gentlemen, as already mentioned, pre-tax earnings were higher than the previous
year in all operating segments. Let's finish with a look at Eliminations: Pre-tax earnings under this
item improved year-on-year to negative €163 million. Inter-segment business, mainly between
the Automotive and the Financial Services segments are eliminated under this item. This
improvement is due to positive effects related to the leasing portfolio and changes in the leasing
mix.
Ladies and gentlemen, the BMW Group expects to see positive business development again this
year. The company will benefit from its balanced global presence and will strive to remain the
world's leading premium manufacturer. Our young and attractive portfolio will enable the
company to profit from market growth. We are targeting sales growth in the three main
economic regions.
Economic analysts forecast moderate growth for the global economy in 2015, with global
recovery set to continue. The euro zone will experience slight growth, while the upswing in the
U.S. will remain dynamic. China is likely to see economic growth of around 7%. A weaker upturn
could affect our business development.
The major currencies are also expected to fluctuate over the course of the year. The BMW Group
consistently hedges its main currencies to create planning security, minimize risks and benefit
from attractive exchange rates.
If there is no significant change in conditions, the BMW Group expects to post a solid increase in
pre-tax earnings compared with the previous year. We aim to achieve this ambitious goal despite
the rising personnel costs necessitated by the company's growth and expenses for drive
technologies and innovations. Earnings development could also be at risk from intense
competition in the automotive markets and increasing global volatility.
Assuming conditions remain stable, we expect to see a solid increase in vehicle deliveries
compared with the previous year. In North America, from today's perspective, we anticipate
positive development in the premium segment. We also see medium- and long-term growth
potential for China. Normalization of the Chinese market will continue this year, spurred by
political regulation and accompanied by increased competition. The slight recovery trend in
European markets should continue. Our current guidance is based on these expectations. Should
these assumptions not be fulfilled, our guidance could change.
Automotive segment revenues are expected to post a solid year-on-year increase. We are still
aiming for an EBIT margin within our target range of 8% to 10% for the Automotive segment. This
remains the benchmark for our profitability, despite higher depreciation and a large proportion of
smaller vehicles. However, depending on political and economic conditions, actual margins could
be either below or above the targeted range.
In the Financial Services segment, we are once again targeting a return on equity of at least 18%expenditure for global growth and IT structure. From today's perspective, it appears that the
segment has made adequate provisions for the risks associated with financial services business.
BMW Motorrad is expected to continue its positive business performance in 2015. New models
will provide the momentum for a solid increase in sales. BMW Motorrad should benefit from the
positive market environment.
Ladies and gentlemen, the guidance assumes that political and economic conditions remain
mostly stable. Despite global uncertainties and risks, the BMW Group expects to achieve
profitable growth again this year. Our attractive models and mobility services will contribute to our
performance. The BMW Group remains committed to its long-term growth strategy. We will
continue to leverage our financial strength to expand our activities and enhance our
competitiveness through constant innovation. We also chart our course and are gearing the
company towards a successful future. Thank you.
Company Representative `
Thank you, also, Mr. Eichiner. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we start with our Q&A session and we
start here and then again. Yes?
Q&A
Q - Adam B. Hull `
Hey. Good morning. It's Adam Hull from Berenberg. Three questions. Firstly, on the working
capital – sorry, on the free cash flow actually. You gave over €3 billion guidance for 2015. You had
working capital outflow last year. We had over €1 billion inflow in the previous two years. I don't
know if you can give us a bit of a feel for what your assumptions on the working capital there are
and maybe on depreciation, I assume depreciation is a positive in the free cash flow.
And then secondly, on the pricing, I think, during the year, pricing turned out a little weaker than
maybe you'd hoped last year. I don't know if you can give us a little bit of a feel for what that total
number was in terms of the basis point rise and what sort of happened, where the issues are.
And with the current FX moves, are you seeing some of that benefit being given away by
competitors in the UK or maybe into the U.S.?
And then finally, on the CO2 side of things, is it right that effectively, the main CapEx and R&D
spending to get to those CO2 target, is that done now? So, really, what we're left with is just the
question what the gross margins will be in terms of those plug-in hybrids, et cetera. Thank you.
A - Company Representative `
Thank you, Adam. Mr. Eichiner?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, let's start with your question about the free cash flow. First of all, as mentioned in the
speech, we are expecting a strong operating cash flow. Having said that, the inventory levels
should only slightly increase, will not be a big step upwards, and depreciation will also increase in
the year 2015, maybe at a similar or slightly below the level of 2014. So that's what we are
expecting.
Now, pricing; basically our assumption is best case, the pricing will be stable compared to 2014.
And the reason is that we have – well, different trends in the market, so we see U.S. market fairlystable, Europe should maybe recover a bit, and China there is still some pricing pressure going
on as you know. So overall, our expectation is that pricing should be flat this year 2015.
Now the question about CO2, well, that is related to all new models. I mean with the launch of all
the new models you see now as they are, the life cycle is clearly reaching into the next decade,
those new models they all have to carry the technology in order to provide the fleet target and
the toughest target is in Europe. So with every introduction, we get an improvement.
Having said that, there are new models to come, so we still are looking forward to our new 7
Series, then we will see 5 Series models to come to the market, and they are still carrying a
certain burden. So that's what we always said. We are aware of the cost we have to carry going
forward for the product, and this is one explanation why we say despite some other positive
elements in our business, we think 8% to 10% is a good guidance despite those burdens coming
from CO2 overall.
A - Company Representative `
Thank you very much. Yes. The next question from Georges Dieng and then Jochen Gehrke.
Georges.
Q - Georges Dieng `
Good morning. Georges Dieng, Natixis. Three questions. First of all, on China, if you could update
us on the business conditions in China and in particular with regard to your relationship with the
dealers and the pace of dealer expansion and also the cash settlement that you had to do with
the dealers at the end of last year. The first question.
Second question on the elimination line; if you could maybe give more color on what's behind
that, and more importantly whether the €163 million is a good guidance for the coming years in
terms of eliminations.
And the last point is on Financial Services. The profitability is still growing, but at the more
pedestrian growth, so I was wondering in the current low interest rate environment, what should
we expect in terms of profitability going forward? And is there any need for further cash or equity
injection in that business? Thank you.
A - Company Representative `
Thank you, Georges. So we start with Norbert Reithofer and then Friedrich Eichiner. Norbert,
please.
A - Norbert Reithofer `
I mean, first of all, you asked the question regarding China. I mean, we have a prognosis for
China. And it says market growth in 2015 overall, 10% to about 20 million vehicles in 2015. So that
is, at the moment, the prognosis for China. If I look into our own figures, I mean, in 2014, our
market growth on group level was 16.6%. That means roughly 17%. And if I look into our year-to-
date figures, February 2015, we were able to grow by 5.6% on group level and the brand BMW
year-to-date February of about 7.2%. I mean last year, I would like to repeat, growth of
approximately 17% year-to-date, February group level roughly 5.6% and brand BMW 7%.
If I look into the ultra luxury segment, I can give you a figure. In February, we were able to sell 14
Rolls-Royces. That means something happens in China. And now, my colleague should give you
the answer regarding the dealers.A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, looking back what happened in 2014 in China, we have to see two different half of the year.
So we had quite solid business in the first half of the year, not many rumors. And then in the
second half of the year, while the anti-corruption campaigns came in and politically driven
changes the environment for our dealers as well, so a lot of discussion going on in the market.
As a consequence, we've seen some pressure in pricing. We've seen the market to weaken a bit,
especially in the upper segment. In the super luxury segment, you can see it very dramatically. So
the customers hesitated to buy. So this was then kicked off in the second half of the year and the
consequence was that the dealers were on risk to meet their sales targets. Not meeting their
sales targets means they would not get the bonus and that kicked off the discussion about the
big numbers you've read in the media. But a big part of those numbers was already planned to
pay out because this was a planned bonus. So it was more about the negotiation, are we granting
the bonus despite the fact that the sales are slowing down.
So, at the end of the day, we came to an agreement, and the planned bonus was paid out. So
not an extra burden from this side, but we added a bit more in order to help the dealers to
overcome the critical situation in the fourth quarter. That's more or less the truth behind it and
what happened there.
Now, actually, we see that it's still calming down a bit. And there's still a lot of pressure in the
market from our perspective. That's why we're saying, it seems to be that the market is
normalizing, normalizing means that we are not expecting high double-digit growth rates
anymore. It should be in a single-digit number, but still growth, which is good news because the
basis is much higher than years before. So that's what we see. And of course, we have to have an
eye on dealers' profitability in order to keep them motivated in order to keep them able to invest
into our business. So that's what we see in the beginning of 2015. So that's what I wanted to say
about China.
Now, your question about the eliminations; eliminations, we are actually benefiting from a very
attractive portfolio that was built up after the crisis with good margins, although those good
margins were eliminated, and we had to write them back year-by-year. This positive effect now
overcompensates the eliminations from new leasing business that is what happened in 2014 and
brought the line item up. So that's the major background of this. And our expectation is that
eliminations will return to a negative low- to mid-range, triple-digit million euro amount in 2015.
Financial Services, I mean, you're aware that we restructured the Financial Services business after
the crisis. So, we've been much more conservative going forward. We are balancing leasing and
loan penetration. We are stabilizing our used car channel especially in the United States and all
those elements in addition to the good funding we are enjoying those days are stabilizing the
profitability within the segment. So, that's more or less the background of the success. So, it's a
stable business so far. We think we've really done as much as we could do in order to cover risks,
and we are quite confident going forward. And that's the reason why we think the 18% return on
equity target will be met next year as well.
The question about the equity, we think 9% equity ratio should be a very solid number for
Financial Services business. And as the business is very profitable, it's self-funding its equity, so
we don't see a necessity to invest from the Automotive segment into Financial Services equity
build-up.
A - Company Representative `Thank you very much. The next question comes from Jochen Gehrke and then Michael Raab.
Jochen?
Q - Jochen Gehrke `
Yes. Jochen Gehrke, Deutsche Bank. Sorry to lean over as this mic is not working. Three questions
if I may. First of all, just technical on your guidance for this year, a solid increase in EBT. Now, your
financial interest line got hit last year pretty significant by mark-to-marking your option portfolio
on the premium side. The structure of the business and that I appreciate is always tricky to
forecast that, but are you incorporating in your guidance that your pre-tax line is growing
significantly more than your operating profit line, or is that not reflected in it?
And then secondly, two more longer-term questions. Mr. Reithofer, obviously, you are about to
switch roles in the group. We've seen a currency swing, which is give or take 20% away from
where you guys felt comfortable and hit all your 8% to 10% margin range. The Japanese
competition has seen a similar development. Companies have become more profitable than
many of us would have thought. Say in two years, when all the hedges have rolled through and
markets have developed, what do you think BMW is doing with this multi-billion tailwind that is on
a mark-to-market basis at least today around what you want to see management doing with this?
And then thirdly, really on the CO2 discussion, you've been very vocal about the European Union.
Where do you think this is going at the moment, the post 2020 discussion? What is your sense
when we get to a decision and also what the feel is in Brussels towards setting other increasing
regulatory hurdles? Thank you.
A - Company Representative `
Thank you very much. So, we start with Friedrich Eichiner and the last question about CO2 will be
answered by Norbert Reithofer. Yes.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
The profit guidance we gave is based on group profit. And for the Automotive segment, we said
in our guidance we are targeting 8% to 10%. But that's what we said and we stay with this. So you
asked about the effects in the financial result. Yes, that's absolutely related to our hedging
activities. And this is hard to predict because I just want to remind you a bit of how we are
hedging. So, we still have derivative instruments in our portfolio that came from the times where
the dollar was much weaker. For example, at the beginning of 2014, and as soon as the dollar has
weakened and our buying power equilibrium target, we are using more derivative instruments in
order to keep the upside open. That is what helps us to get a positive effect later on in the EBIT.
But the downside is we get a hit in the financial results. So, that was a background of what
happened in 2014 more or less.
Now to predict that mechanism into 2015 is very hard. It would mean that we have a view on
where the dollar is going. So, I mean if we see the currencies further appreciating, then the effect
would definitely be there. If not, if it's stable, then not as much. So, that is something we have to
see. That's a background of this.
So, your question about the currency gains. Now, first of all, we have to see. We are hedged in
2015 of course because we have a grid that we are following and so we are hedging into the
future. So, the effect in 2015 will basically not be as strong as in the years to come because 2015
had already hedges in place when the dollar appreciated. So that's a background of this.Now, if it would end into things like price adjustments in order to drive the competitiveness on the
pricing side up, I would say, we are hesitating to follow a strategy like this because as you know,
the exchange rate development could reverse at a point in time, and then you end up with low
prices. And the experience is, as soon as they're down, you never could bring them back up. So
from our perspective, we will not drive that. We would like to get it into our P&L, the effect. So
that's our view on that.
A - Company Representative `
Thank you very much. Last part of the question was about CO2, post-2020 discussion. Norbert?
A - Norbert Reithofer `
You asked me, Mr. Gehrke, post-2020. We have a clear priority. I mean what do I mean with we, at
the ACA companies. And let me say, it's the first time that we had the whole ACA behind the
target. We would like to move the next target from 2025 to 2030. Because we said, as
manufacturers, we don't know how to achieve a level of 68 gram of CO2 per kilometer to 78
gram of CO2 per kilometer in 2025. We said to the responsible politicians in Brussels, we have to
move the new targets to the year 2030, and you ask me my experience during the last nine
years, I mean, my gut feeling tells me, and it's the first time that we can have a chance to move
the targets from 2025 to 2030. But of course, as you know, it's not yet decided. But it's the first
time that I have a gut feeling that it is possible – can be possible. Let me say it in a very careful
way because I had a lot of ups and downs in Brussels and I'm careful what I say, but it's the first
time that we have at least a chance.
And then, you know Mr. Gehrke, as I know, we have at the moment a discussion, can the car
industry be part of emission trading system. In my opinion, I said a positive gut feeling in the first
point. We don't have a majority of car manufacturers behind the target. We don't have a majority.
I would like to repeat it for you, we don't have a majority of car manufacturers behind the target
to be part of emission trading system. So that means I heard what my colleague said from Opel. I
support what he said, but I was my whole life a realist and I see a chance close to zero that the
car industry will be part of emission trading system. So because we don't have a majority of
manufacturers behind the target and then it will be difficult. So these are my two answers.
Q - Jochen Gehrke `
Sorry, if I just may come back to the last point you made. Is that a German problem or is that a
European problem?
A - Norbert Reithofer `
No, it's a crystal clear European problem.
Q - Jochen Gehrke `
Thank you.
A - Company Representative `
Thank you. Next question comes from Michael Raab and then Horst Schneider.
Q - Michael Raab `Yes. Hi. Mike Raab from Kepler Cheuvreux. Getting back on China perhaps, everybody out there,
including your, let's say, hardest competitors are talking about a normalization. To me, it seems
that the term normalization is sort of broadly defined as growth somewhere in the higher single
digits in the next years. But it also appears to me that since yesterday, you seem to have
adopted perhaps a bit more of a cautious tone concerning the evolution in China.
I just want to get a feeling for whether this is from your standpoint something BMW specific which
may have to do with your model range over there, or is it really a general thing?
And then secondly, Dr. Reithofer, perhaps on a final note, I think when you started about nine
years ago, you were sort of describing the biggest challenges ahead of BMW as being the ability
to tap into new means of mobility in conjunction with the CO2 challenge. From your today's
standpoint, which are the biggest challenges for the next 10 years? Thanks.
A - Company Representative `
Okay. We start with Norbert.
A - Norbert Reithofer `
I mean, for me, the biggest challenge are, in my opinion, to achieve the CO2 targets in 2020
because, I said during my speech, we started on a level of 210 grams of CO2 per kilometer. We
are now on a level of 130 grams of CO2 per kilometer. I mean, we call our cars the ultimate
driving machine or sheer driving pleasure. So, you can imagine how challenging it is for the BMW
Group to achieve 100 grams of CO2 per kilometer because that is what this means. We don't
have to achieve 95 grams of CO2 per kilometer. We have to achieve 100 grams of CO2 per
kilometer. It will be a real challenge not from a technological point of view, more from a financial
point of view. As my colleague Mr. Eichiner said, if you see our cost per vehicle, the CO2
measures will go into our vehicles with the upcoming new models. So, that means it will start, let
me say, in 2017, 2018, 2019 especially. And if you ask me that will be the biggest challenge for the
BMW Group, but in my opinion, for the other car manufacturers as well. So, China, normalization,
Mr. Eichiner?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Yes. Basically, we think we should get used to single-digit growth in China. And the reason is that
we see that the economy is, well, slightly coming down now. So, inflation rate is lower than
planned. Now, already monetary policies are in place in order to counteract. Those are all
indications that the growth is slowing down a bit. And on top of this, we have the tougher policies
for anti-monopoly and corruption and so forth. And this is creating an environment where we think
we should be a bit more careful. We don't think that the market is going down. So, it's still a very
good market for us we have to say because it's the biggest car market in the world and it's still
growing, but not as it was in the years before with a double-digit growth rate and just shipping
cars over and they were bought from the spot. Now, that is not the case anymore.
It's normalizing. That means competition is coming up. Nearly everybody is over there now. Nearly
everybody has localized production in volume sectors now. So, you get more competition. You
get more pricing competition. That is all coming now, and that is what we think is a normalization
effect in China like we've seen it in other markets. It is not a specific BMW issue. It is a market
issue. And we think you better prepare for it.
Q - Michael Raab `Just to quickly perhaps follow-up on two aspects here. As compared to the end of last year, has
your stance concerning China become more cautious now? And then secondly, looking at the two
key components of your revenues over there, volume growth and pricing, which of the two do
you think will come down faster, volume growth or pricing? Thanks.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, as I said, there will be still volume growth over there. Pricing is hard to predict because it
depends on the competition as well. And, of course, I think – we've seen some pressure on
pricing in the second half of the year. Now the question is at the level we are now, is this now
again a balanced level, right. We think there's a good chance to keep it there, but as I said, it
depends on how all the other competitors are targeting pricing by themselves. And if somebody
is really aggressive buying market share, then this could have an effect on pricing, of course. And
that is something it's hard to forecast.
We think we are all better off keeping the pricing stable at the level we are, right. That would be
our perspective in China. And we are not prepared to drive the pricing down. That's what we
don't like to do. But in today's environment, not only in China, you really have to make more and
more decisions, hard decisions, whether you'll go for more volume or for stable pricing, for
margins or volume, that has become really the decision you have to take month by month,
market by market going forward and that's why we said as we told you that 8% to 10% is still our
leading target. Sometimes we have to compromise a bit on the volume side. That's the truth
behind what's going on in a highly competitive market around the world.
A - Company Representative `
Thanks. Now Horst Schneider and then Arndt Ellinghorst. Horst?
Q - Horst Schneider `
Yes. Horst Schneider from HSBC. Two questions please. First of all, looking back to Q4 and at
BMW Automotive, so revenues per unit, it strikes me that it was fairly strong in the fourth quarter.
I want to know what has triggered this increase. Was that more due to higher wholesales to
dealers compared to the retail sales or was it more really driven by translation effects?
In that context maybe you can give also some guidance which translation effect we should expect
on revenues in 2015? So should we also work with something like plus 3% I think it also relates
then a little bit to mixes development?
Then on other cost changes, you said that the burden remains high. So the reading is right that
we should expect €500 million, €600 million add-on burden in 2015. That's the question. And I
want to know what is this increase used for? So for what do you spend precisely this money? And
then the last one is your general thoughts on market share. I mean it's not acceptable for you to
lose market share, right. So that's still a focus. So that's all I want to know. Thank you.
A - Company Representative `
Good questions.
A - Norbert Reithofer `
Good questions.
A - Company Representative `Mr. Eichiner.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
You're really giving me a hard time. Okay. So revenues in Q4, so if you followed up what
happened in the course of 2014, so we significantly had to build up inventory levels in the second
and the third quarter with all the new launches and we sold it off in the fourth quarter. So, we had
higher wholesale than retail in this quarter. And this is one of the reasons of why the revenue per
unit has gone up and, of course, exchange rate effects came in especially in the fourth quarter
and played also a significant role in this particular quarter. That's more or less the background of
this.
Now, the burdens in 2015, first of all, we are growing our business. In a growing environment, we
will be hiring people in order to support the growth, so our bonus schemes will play a role in this,
and we see also that depreciation will be a burden again roughly at the same magnitude like
2014. And, of course, we have to invest into future, well, innovation as well. We are not yet
through our investment cycle. We still have a way to go in order to keep the company competitive
when it comes down to all those tough targets; CO2, but not only this.
Connectivity will play a huge role going forward. So on the whole IT front the company has to do
a lot more. Why? First of all, the challenge is coming from the product and from the Internet side,
especially in the sales environment, but then we are reaching a point where the legacy systems
have to be replaced as well; systems we built up in the 1970s and 1980s, they are reaching the
end of the life cycle. So we have to do a lot more on this side as well.
So there are elements to it and that is the reason why we guided those €600 million. And we
said that we still have efficiency gains of course in place, but they are not offsetting the effect I
described to you. So that is the background of this development.
Now thoughts about market share. Well, this is something what I already mentioned. You really
have to take tougher decisions these days, whether you rather go for volume of for profit. This is
something that is a very serious decision day by day in our sales subsidiaries and on dealer level.
Of course, you can go for more volume, but the risk is that you sacrifice too much in profitability.
So, that's where we are looking for the right balance in every niche market. We are targeting our
markets with contribution per car targets in order to really support our 8% to 10% margin and we
try to balance volume against it. So, that is how we're driving it, but it's getting tougher. And the
reason is that our competitors, they all want to overtake us. You know that. It's the story we are
discussing for years and everybody has enough cars in all segments. So it's now really a tough
fight going forward.
Q - Horst Schneider `
Just two follow-up questions. When you say that wholesales was flatter than retail sales, it means
that the inventory sits now still to some extent with independent dealer, which are not in your
balance sheet, which means that Q1 production should be below sales again? And second, how
should we think about the allocation of the future cost in 2015? It will be again more back-end
loaded so very little cost burden in Q1 and Q2.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
I think, you're right. We're expecting the costs – the main – the biggest part of the cost will come
in, in the second half of the year, especially in Q4 as always.Q - Horst Schneider `
And wholesales, retail sales?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Wholesale sale.
Q - Horst Schneider `
Inventories?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Yeah. We are balancing inventories. So the special effects, although wherever we had shutdown
any one or other plant, so that's the reason why we had a higher wholesale. And of course, we
are balancing this in the first quarter, so it's – otherwise it will be hard to achieve our free cash
flow target, right.
A - Company Representative `
Now, next question, Arndt Ellinghorst and then Stefan Burgstaller. Arndt?
Q - Arndt A. Ellinghorst `
Thank you. Thank you very much. I have two questions. The first one is on your joint venture with
Brilliance. And you seemed to be doing a pretty good job together. The – your equity income
increased to €655 million last year. How do you – the business is at roughly 15% EBIT margin
business. How do you think about that business and the earnings performance moving forward,
also bearing in mind the profit stream that you get on a stronger renminbi? And that's the first
question. Is that conceptually a number that could move closer to €1 billion over the next couple
of years?
And then the second question is again coming back to the currency, and also to Jochen's
question, really. Is a very strong dollar really a good thing or is it a bad thing for the company
overall? Because you had – I mean, in the last 10 years, you had these huge tailwinds from China
coming up, basically covering everything up. And we always said that it's – you keep reminding
your business as you do today that you got to do your homework at home and can't just rely on
the Chinese customer and the government. And now, we could enter a phase with a materially
stronger dollar and the industry starts giving away everything in pricing to grow market share
again. So, what role can you play as a future chairman, as a management board to prevent that
from happening?
A - Company Representative `
Thank you very much. This is the right question for the CEO, for Norbert.
A - Norbert Reithofer `
I mean, first of all, we had a discussion in the company, it was approximately five – four years ago
where we focus more and more on China, on the Chinese market. And we decided, no, we will
not do it. We would like to have a balance between Greater China and the NAFTA region. That
was the reason, by the way, to make the decision to expand Spartanburg up to 450,000 units
and to build a plant in Mexico in the year 2019.And what is the balance at the moment between Greater China and the NAFTA region? Greater
China in the year 2014, 23% of our volume group level, and NAFTA region, 21%, so I give you the
exact figures. Yeah. In my age, I mean, I have to look from time-to-time. I mean, NAFTA region,
450,000 units roughly last year; Greater China, 480,000 units last year.
I mean, if you see from a strategic point of view, it's a pretty balanced situation. So, I mean, you
mentioned currency gains from the dollar. If I see our strong position in the United States, I would
say, the current situation is an advantage for us and not a disadvantage. Of course, we have
translation effects as well and the translation effects because of Spartanburg will end us – end up
in our fixed costs. That means higher fixed costs, of course.
So, Mr. Eichiner, that was it from my side.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Everything was right, so just can confirm it. So that's how it is. So definitely, it should be positive.
But, you are right, the risk is that exchange rate gains are used in the industry to drive pricing
down. And that would be something we could not appreciate, definitely not. And as the margin in
the U.S. business are not very strong compared to other regions, there is no reason to do this.
But as I said, it's depending on competition as well. We definitely are not prepared to translate
now the favorable exchange rate into weaker pricing in the U.S. That's not our strategy going
forward.
Now, your question about the equity result in the JV. Basically, this was really a very strong result in
2014 from our perspective as well. Looking forward, we already announced that we have taken a
decision to allocate another three cars to the joint venture. And now the next couple of years,
there is a burden coming in from the launch – preparation and launch of those new cars for the
market. So, we are expecting further growth in the market, but as I said, with all the investment
we have to do, with all the preparation we have to do for the next step of growth, some
burdening spreading in now in 2015 and maybe in 2016, and will have a dampening effect on
profitability.
A - Company Representative `
Thank you very much. Stefan Burgstaller and then (01:36:56). Stefan?
Q - Stefan A. Burgstaller `
Stefan Burgstaller from Goldman Sachs. In your annual report, I think, in the front section you write
about the meeting with the supervisory board where you discussed your five-year plan. I would
like to just invite you to share with us the five-year perspective of BMW on China. You've kind of
hinted that with normalization, single-digit growth rates, so just in terms of the growth and the
pricing environment. But more specifically when I look at your imported volumes against what you
think over the next five years, is the imported number of cars into China, do you think in your
mind it will stay stable, it could decline or will you be able to grow it?
And then as a second derivative for that, what do you think the mix will do just conceptually
speaking? And then second a reflective question for Dr. Reithofer. When you joined the – in your
current role September 1, 2006, the share price was €40. Recently we touched €120, plus €50
billion market capitalization, so clearly many good decisions or accumulation of good decisions.
I'm just curious what is the one thing you would have liked to have done which you haven't?
Thanks.A - Friedrich Eichiner `
First question, five-year plan. So, much of this is outlined with the – what I said about the JV. So,
we have a clear strategy within the joint venture. We extended our contract up to 2028. We
allocated three new products. Those are products more in a volume sector in order to maintain
the growth rate in China, and as all the competition is more or less localized in those segments,
this is quite a logical thing to do in order to keep BMW brand competitive in this market. So, that
is driving the development in the joint venture.
On the import side, clearly, we have more the higher mix cars and the niche cars on the import
side, so – but because it doesn't make a lot of sense to allocate cars where the volume is small,
it's not paying off in the business case. So, that's the reason why we're importing them. I think we
have quite an attractive portfolio, and keep in mind, new very attractive cars are coming like the
new 7 Series, and the announced X7 as well. So, from my perspective, there is a good chance
that the import volume could be at least stabilized. My strategic expectation would be that we
are able to bring it a bit up, but always in balance with what is going on in the Chevy side. We all
know we have to have a certain balance between imports and locally produced. So, that's how
we look at it going forward.
A - Company Representative `
The last question – well, the last part of the question is for Norbert.
A - Norbert Reithofer `
You leave me now with a difficult question. You know that, Mr. Burgstaller. Look, we – as you said,
we made a lot of right decisions but, of course, not only right decisions, but it was, in my opinion,
80:20 ratio, and that was good. I mean, what would I have done different, I mean, that we can
judge during the next five years, I think it's too early.
A - Company Representative `
So, ladies and gentlemen, I have one last question from Max. (01:40:31) Go ahead.
Question for Dr. Reithofer. This is obviously your last analyst meeting, and a few of us were
discussing last night whether one of us should say something to thank you for the time you've
given the analyst community. So that, I think, falls on my shoulders to do that. I mean, you said it's
been an honor and a privilege to lead BMW. It's been an honor and privilege for many of us to
follow the company during your tenure. And I think amongst other things, we're very appreciative
of the time you've given. I think pretty much every quarterly call, taken some of our stupid
questions very patiently in the past and, again, today.
And with that background, I'd like to ask you one thing. You've seen what we've written as an
investment community, and you heard our questions. What has frustrated you the most? What
has irritated you in terms of misperceptions of BMW amongst this group? Thank you.
A - Norbert Reithofer `
First of all, I mean, it's my last analysts meeting. I would like to say – and I'm – you know, I'm a
straight shooter. I think, you're pretty good with your statements. You're really pretty good. And it
was, for me, as well helpful to read your reports, and sometimes I used your reports in board
meetings to say to my colleagues, look, they see it the same way like Mr. Eichiner and I do it, so it
was really very often helpful. And you asked me – help me again?Q - Company Representative `
What do we got wrong? What did we get wrong about BMW?
A - Norbert Reithofer `
I mean, I had – I mean, I'm not as good in English as you, but we held together in January 2008
that very interesting meeting in London. Let me say, that was for me a very frustrating meeting
for me and my colleague Miguel Alganal (01:42:40), but at the end, it was a real push from your
side towards my side, towards me as a person, and you can see the result now. For me it was a
very frustrating meeting. I thought, what's going on here in the room? Because I mentioned
efficient dynamics, (01:43:02) you're smiling. You countered it, of course.
I mentioned we need electric vehicles, I mentioned in principle our target framework for the next
couple of years. And it was very quiet in the room. I had no response from your side, and on top
of that, I had the flu that day, so I must thought, okay, now we have to move, otherwise, we'll
have a real issue as BMW.
That is what I got out of the day, and after it, it was right to see that way. So, as I said, I mean we
are discussing very often your reports in the company, and you are pretty good, and you are
pretty close. So what is really going on? It was a compliment.
Q - Company Representative `
Thanks again from all of us for the compliment, and again your time in the last 8.5 years. Thank
you.
Thank you, Max (1:44:02). Next question, Austin (1:44:08).
Hi. I just had I guess one clarification question, then two others. On the clarification, can I just
understand indeed, that the bridge that you're talking about for the other items, the €663 million
in 2014, for that you think in 2015 will be about €600 million, and does that item – you seem to
have sort of changed the wording a little bit. When you talk about marketing, does that mean
pricing? Or have you moved that away from under different column?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
So, in that last column for 2015 where we said €600 million to €800 million in that category,
marketing is marketing spend for launches. And please keep in mind our flagship has to be
launched this year, very important project to us. So, there will be some marketing cost associated
to this. That has nothing to do with pricing. Pricing, just to remind you, that it's flat from our
expectation.
Q - Company Representative `
Okay. The second question just regarding currencies, if BMW didn't hedge in any way
whatsoever, what do you think would be the benefit in 2015 if there'd be no hedging at all?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
I don't have the number for you. So, that's something you should follow-up with our IR colleagues,
and – because just not calculating it. So, we know what the result will be. And as I said it will be a
tailwind in 2015 in a three digit – in a mid-three-digit million number.Q - Company Representative `
Okay. My last question is just regarding your 100th anniversary, and the mention before about
potential special dividend. I mean, should we assume that this will be just a one-off and a token
gesture for long-term shareholders?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
So, we have to be clear, there's no – we have taken no decisions so far. And my view is, first, we
have to earn the money in 2015 and then we discuss how much we can distribute of that. So,
that's why we are more focused now on the first part of it, earning the money. And I think at the
end of the year then we should have this discussion again. That's how we look at it.
A - Company Representative `
Next question, (1:46:33).
Mr. Eichiner, can I just follow on, on that. You are sitting on a pretty comfortable liquidity position in
automotive. I think, it's around a bit more than €14 billion. You are guiding for 30% to 40% payout
ratio. I think, last year it was 32%. And you said in the past, if I'm not mistaken, that you feel pretty
comfortable with around €10 billion in cash, so you continue to accumulate cash. Can you share
your thoughts about your dividend policy going forward?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
So basically, in the policy there's nothing changed. So if you're looking at our liquidity reserves,
they are calculated based on the – our cash plans for 2015, where we have to pay back money as
well. And the amount of money we need in order to protect our positions to mitigate risks that
could come up. So that is still valid and we have an eye on that, and a clear strategy how much we
need. So that's the background of it. And we can go into this in more detail later on. That's one
part.
And the dividend payment policy has not changed either. We said we feel healthy with a payout
ratio of between 30% and 40%, and we moved it up year-by-year. So this year, it's more than
32%. It's, I think, 32.7%, so close to 33%. So we took another step. We're paying out €1.9 billion
this time, which is from our perspective, a significant amount of money. And then we said, well –
but the management has to discuss 2016. We cannot rule out that there will be some specific
dividends in discussion, but it's not yet decided and it has to be based on a very good result in
2015. Otherwise, we're in a completely different debate. So that's how we look at it and there
has nothing changed.
A - Company Representative `
Next question, Harald, is that right?
Q - Harald C. Hendrikse `
Yeah. It's Harald Hendrikse, Morgan Stanley. Just a bigger question. I was in Geneva watching you
with the launch of the new Active Tourer, it's a car that we've talked about for a long time and
now finally it has actually come to pass that you've actually launched this new car. Now, the point
that that's now been launched obviously highlights the fact that you've hugely increased the
range of models that BMW provides to the consumer.And so, sort of two questions; one, how many more segments of the market or how many more
segments of your consumer can you see where you're weak, where maybe you need to add or
you have further opportunity because it would seem that actually you're covering most segments
in a much more depth than you've ever done before.
And then secondly, how do you guys feel or discuss or think about the brand extensions that
you're making because if I see a 2 Series seven-seater next to a 7 Series in a dealership, I'm really
kind of wondering are they the same brand. Can you sell those in the same brand, and can you
maintain the premium pricing that drives the profitability at a time when maybe that volume
growth is becoming a little bit more difficult? I mean, that's a big question I think, but I think it is
probably very important going forward especially as that you're launching more of those low-end
vehicles.
A - Norbert Reithofer `
Look, we had a lengthy discussion 1998 to 1999 when we were thinking do we need a vehicle like
the BMW X5. So – and even our sales people said it will never be a success. I would like to repeat
it: it will never be a success. The two best sales managers of our company, Mr. (1:50:35) he was
responsible for the Asian region, said 50,000 a year in the first year and then it will go down. So
we were able to sell every year more than 100,000 vehicles and the BMW X5 was a very good
add-on to our product portfolio.
If you see a vehicle like the BMW X1, I mean I don't know yet the final figure of the current model,
but it will be roughly 800,000 vehicles over lifetime. That means it was the right add-on to our
product portfolio. And I mean if you see the contribution margin of a BMW X1 during the first
three years, four years, it was a very good one.
So then a lot of people, even the car press said how can you do a vehicle like the X6. So in the
meantime we know the X6 is a success, so – and that means we have always to ask ourselves. I
have a lot of friends. A lot of them are medical doctors. They said we don't like sporty sedans for
what you stand for as the BMW Group. We would like to have a kind of a car like what we call in
the meantime a 2 Series Active Tourer or 2 Series Gran Tourer.
So how does it look like if I see the BMW 2 Series Active Tourer? About 70% are new customers.
That means they did not consider in the past to buy a BMW. They are new customers. That
means we will always have to make the next step, and we have always to ask ourselves is it the
right step. If you see Europe, I mean, we discussed again with Mr. (1:52:36) the CO2 regulations. I
mean, we need smaller cars for Europe especially how we call it (1:52:42). So then you have to ask
yourself as a company, what cars do you need to have a good contribution per vehicle?
And that is how vehicles like the Grand Tourer come up in our maps. Let me say it that way. I think,
we are, in the meantime, from a product portfolio pretty good. And the cars will change again
inside underneath the sheet metal. If it comes to the year 2020 or 2030, we will have different
drivetrains, more electrified cars and so on. That will be the way, but if I see an X5, if I see an X1, if
I see an X6, they are all real successes in the past. And I'm absolutely sure, I mean, if you see the
B-Class from Mercedes, they sell every year 120,000 units. I mean, the Active Tourer is the
competitor to the B-Class.
I mean if such a vehicle is successful, why should we then let them alone. For example, the G-
Class of Mercedes, the big SUV, I mean, it's a real success about 60,000 vehicles, 70,000
vehicles a year. We think very good contribution, Mr. Eichiner. I don't want to mention a figure. I
don't want to mention a figure, and we need an X7 as competitor for such a vehicle. So and we –direction? I think we have to think cars, new, when we think about digitization. And we have to ask
ourselves, what does it mean if you are not – if the cars don't need a driver anymore? I think that
is the real question, what is coming up for us. I hope.
A - Company Representative `
So, ladies and gentlemen, I have only one final question or statement. Is that okay? Then last
question or statement, Arndt Ellinghorst.
Q - Arndt A. Ellinghorst `
Yes. It's really just an add-on to what Max (1:54:59) has already said, and on behalf of all of us and
your investor community, which is just really great, great. Thank you for the last 8.5 years. And I
think we've all been very, very skeptical at the beginning on efficient dynamics. And we thought,
you're just going to spend a hell of a lot of money and we won't see the returns. But I think, the
great achievement really was that efficient dynamics also meant efficient growth and profitable
growth.
So, if there's one favor we can ask you really when you're moving into the Supervisory Board to
run it that you keep challenging the organization to keep an eye on profitable growth, to keep
sharing the proceeds with your shareholders, hopefully, in an increasing fashion, and that you
have a good hand bringing in the right people. I think you met – there's a quote from you where
you're saying. We need the best people to achieve the best result, and we wish you good luck
and fortune to pick the right people to drive the company as it's been driven over the past. So,
thank you very much and good luck.
A - Company Representative `
Thank you very much, Mr. Ellinghorst. Thank you very much also from my side. And now, we invite
you all to have lunch with us. Thank you very much.