Q4 2015 Earnings Call

Presentation] (35:2`4,000 vehicles in Europe. Since DriveNow was launched in 2011, our customers have driven over – 37:`4,000 vehicles in Europe. Since DriveNow was launched in 2011, our customers have driven over7)
`So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., Harald Krüger, over to you.
Harald Krüger
`Ladies and gentlemen, our financial strength creates the right cond`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureions for the company's future, what this film show is that designing the individual mobil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey of `the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future is
an exc`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureing but also a highly complex endeavor. Ultimately, what we do is inspire people,
accompanying and supporting them and making their daily lives more convenient. The BMWcontinue to be our approach in `the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future. W`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh our Strategy NUMBER ONE > NEXT, we are
looking ahead to the `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the 2020 and beyond that up to 2025.
Our corporate strategy guides our actions. It allows us to identify trends in our business
`environment, we pursued our goals w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh determination and achieved them. Our premium brands early on, to set ourselves amb`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureious goals and swiftly determine the actions
necessary to achieve that, to improve our existing operations continuously and to tap into
prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureable new business areas, to ensure a corporate culture w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurehin the company, which provides
the ideal basis to implement strategic measures successfully.
Since `200,000 un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures. To achieve this, we are tapping into new markets, launching motorcycles below1, the Group has focused solely on premium w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures three brands, BMW, MINI and Rolls-
Royce. Since `200,000 un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures. To achieve this, we are tapping into new markets, launching motorcycles below7 and the introduction of Strategy NUMBER ONE, the company has grown to a
new level. We have developed successfully from being the leading manufacturer of premium
brands to becoming the leading provider of premium mobil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey and services.
Over the past few `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes, `however, Group revenues still rose by 7.7%. Both earnings and Group prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future crossed the next, our `world, we are right now where the customer is. We pursue a balanced distribution of value has continued to change, even faster and more
dramatically than ever before. Today, we are operating w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurehin a completely different setting. This
is why we have updated our Strategy NUMBER ONE w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh an open mind. Our starting point was a
comprehensive analysis of trends.
Consequently, we have identified seven fields of actions relevant to the BMW Group. One of
them is the dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurealization. New technologies create new opportun`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureies for the automotive industry,
but also pose major challenges. The value creation is shifting from the actual hardware toward
software and services. We can feel the changes in our business areas along the entire value
chain. Mastering them requires new skill sets.
This development is also changing the compet`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureive s`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureuation in our industry. In add`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureion to the very
intense compet`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureion in the premium segment, established carmakers are now confronted w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh
compet`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureors from outside the industry. These companies are characterized by a highly dynamic
`structure, the future of all Rolls-Royce `models, as well as in our European production network and for the plant expansion in Un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureed., an aggressive approach, and substantial financial leeway. They focus exclusively on
future technologies and work w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh the data of customers.
As a result, there are changes at the customer interface, which is so v`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureal to us. In this dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureal day
and age, a decisive role is played by data and the added value for customers, which can be
generated from that data. How data is handled has a major impact on the overall customer
experience. This is an opportun`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey for established carmakers to set themselves apart from new
compet`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureors. In the past, we have always adjusted to customer-specific needs.
W`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurehin a complex compet`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureive `environment, we pursued our goals w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh determination and achieved them. Our premium brands, the cost compet`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureion will only intensify. Operational
excellence is imperative to being able to increase efficiency further and to invest into `the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future.
When `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future comes to drive train technology, for instance, we will continue to follow a multi-track
approach that allows us to comply w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh the increasingly strict legal regulations on emissions
reductions all around the globe.
We have to succeed in these efforts w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh a highly volatile `environment, we pursued our goals w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh determination and achieved them. Our premium brands. Maximum flexibil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey is
needed to stay our course in an uncertain `environment, we pursued our goals w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh determination and achieved them. Our premium brands. We have taken into account all the trends
I've just listed. The update of our strategy has followed a dynamic, evolutionary approach,
including disruptive elements. It's simply called Strategy NUMBER ONE > NEXT.
The transformation of trad`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureional mobil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey is a process. One of that will extend over a longer
period of time, even though the pace will increase exponentially over the course of this
development. We are leading the BMW Group into a new era. To this end, we leverage
innovation technologies, comprehensive connectiv`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey and zero-emission mobil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey. All of theseneed to be industrialized, bearing in mind our business responsibil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureies, and in a sustainable
manner, which `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureself is another great challenge.
Previously Strategy NUMBER ONE was depicted by a house w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh four columns. Strategy NUMBER
ONE > NEXT is represented by a more dynamic `structure, the future of all Rolls-Royce `models, as well as in our European production network and for the plant expansion in Un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureed., this arrow. Its asymmetrical form
illustrates the need to think out of the box. The arrow is pointing to `the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future consists of four
elements: vision, compet`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureive advantage, strategic compass, corporate culture. Our vision is we
are Number One. We are Number One.
We inspire people on the move. We shape tomorrow's individual premium mobil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey. In a
compet`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureive `environment, we pursued our goals w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh determination and achieved them. Our premium brands, we rely on our inherent strengths. We un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futuree exc`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureement, responsibil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey
and success. We have the most emotional products and attractive services. We offer the best
customer experience w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh the most aspirational brands in the premium segment.
We aim to secure long-term success and to set standards amongst our compet`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureors. To this end,
we have defined six key focus areas: brands and design; products; technologies, customer
experience and services, dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurealization and prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey. These elements are derived from the
trends I mentioned earlier, and anticipate a fundamental transformation of our industry.
Let me comment on brands, design, products, customer experience and dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurealization. Ladies and
gentlemen, premium is to a large extent defined through the presence and strength of the
brands. Design plays a v`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureal role here, and is a differentiating feature. Our goal remains
unchanged: to lead in terms of brands and design. A comprehensive brand orchestration
management, including clearly defined role, is the basis for our operations.
In `the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future, we will secure the ideal outcome by applying a Group perspective to all our
decisions on new products and services. This is the prerequis`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futuree for taking our design to the next
level, and for determining the ideal time for that market launch of new products.
This Group-wide interaction will enable us to achieve much more. We already occupy a future-
orientated pos`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureion in the market w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh our brands and products, covering all requirements in the
premium segment. W`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh Strategy NUMBER ONE > NEXT, we will expand our product portfolio in
all brands and all segments. This includes: first, the market leadership in the upper segments;
second, the expansion of the BMW M product program; and third, the expansion of the BMW i
lineup.
Let me be clear. BMW is and will remain our core brand. Leadership in the luxury class strengthens
the BMW brand's premium pos`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureioning. Over the course of the next few `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes, we will
strategically launch new BMW products in the market, accompanied by BMW M and i `models, as well as in our European production network and for the plant expansion in Un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureed. A
good example is the new 7 Series w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures iPerformance and M Performance variants. They
demonstrate how our technologies are charting in `the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future course of the luxury segment, that
we are responding to the different wishes expressed by our customers and that we offer Sheer
Driving Pleasure in many different forms. The luxury class will remain a high-margin segment, so
we intend to enhance our presence by adding another new model. Our BMW X model range is
becoming more and more popular w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh customers. We have already `announced, this corresponds to a solid growth rate of 6.1% `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the-on-`year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the. It's also a new sales the new add`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureion
to this lineup, the X7, due out in 2018.
On to my second point, BMW M is another example where high demand and prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey comes
together. Since 2010, sales of M and M Performance vehicle have quadrupled. It's not only an
obvious choice from a business perspective to continue investment in this field, but `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future will also
benef`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future our customers and our brands. New M and M Performance `models, as well as in our European production network and for the plant expansion in Un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureed will be put on the road
as early as this `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the. One example is the new fantastic BMW M2 Coupé. It's winning every testsBMW M`4,000 vehicles in Europe. Since DriveNow was launched in 2011, our customers have driven over GTS comes into a lim`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureed ed`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureion of 700 un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures and has already been sold out. That's
what a Chairman of the Board loves. Already sold out.
We are planning to close any gaps in the M portfolio. We also see growth potential in M
Performance. In `the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future, M Performance will have a significantly wider share in our model
portfolio. As you can see, we are taking advantage of the growth potential in the high-margin
segments. After all, the evolution will continue to fund the revolution in the coming `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes.
Let's move on to the third point, the expansion of BMW i. W`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh BMW i, we have managed to very
quickly create a globally known brand that embodies sustainabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey. Since `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures introduction in 2013,
we have delivered more than 50,000 BMW i vehicles to customers. Today, the BMW i lineup has
a larger market presence than any other electric vehicle. BMW i assumes a key role as an enabler
for our BMW core brand. BMW i attracts new customers to BMW. BMW i gives easy access to
electro-mobil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey as part of Drive`Now, let us take a look at business development in the segments. First, the Automotive segment.. 20% of our car-sharing fleet is already f`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureted w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh an electric
drive. BMW i is also instrumental in tapping new sales strategies via new channels or Internet
orders.
Our viewpoint on e-mobil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey is clear. E-mobil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey delivers a solution to the demands of urban
mobil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey `today, our main focus is on our latest update through Strategy NUMBER ONE. and tomorrow. We are charting a clear course, and we will continue to do so. An
add`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureional i3 model will be offered from the second half of this `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the on. Its battery capac`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey has
increased by 50%, and we have also revised the design.
In 2018, we will launch an emotional brand shaper based on the i8, BMW i8 Roadster. The next
few `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes will see further progress in terms of the vehicle range for both battery electric vehicle
and plug-in hybrids. The knowledge and experience we gain through BMW i flows as appropriate
into our entire range. That's why what iPerformance stands for.
In `the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future, we will offer all BMW `models, as well as in our European production network and for the plant expansion in Un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureed w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh a plug-in hybrid drive under this label. From July
onwards, customers will be able to choose from a total of seven BMW `models, as well as in our European production network and for the plant expansion in Un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureed that are e`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureher fully
electric or f`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureted w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh a plug-in hybrid drive.
Add`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureional electrified `models, as well as in our European production network and for the plant expansion in Un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureed are due out in the following `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes. One of them will be a MINI w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh a
plug-in hybrid drive and, of course, iPerformance customers will also benef`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future from the BMW 360°
ELECTRIC offering, including a wall-mounted rapid-charge box and Charge`Now, let us take a look at business development in the segments. First, the Automotive segment.. The `world, we are right now where the customer is. We pursue a balanced distribution of value's
largest network of public charging station.
And a completely new i model is scheduled to follow early in the next decade. We call `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future BMW
iNEXT. This highly innovative model will be BMW i's new spearhead of innovation and technology.
It will enable us to take BMW i to the next level. In doing so, we rely on our experience in electro-
mobil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey. The iNEXT will cover all aspects relevant in `the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future. Autonomous driving, dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureal
connectiv`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey, intelligent lightweight construction, a trendsetting interior and the next generation of
e-mobil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey.
`Ladies and gentlemen, our financial strength creates the right cond`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureions for the company's future, one key strategic approach is technologies. Dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurealization has brought
about technological possibil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureies that can make driving more comfortable and most of all safer.
On top of that, they connect mobil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh all other areas of life. We are determined to assume
the leading role in the dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureal transformation of the automotive industry.
Our development division wants to ensure the BMW Group remains technology leader. To
achieve that, we are going to re`structure, the future of all Rolls-Royce `models, as well as in our European production network and for the plant expansion in Un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureed. our operations w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh a strong focus on two key future
topics, on two key future topics. Powertrain technologies and dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurealization. EfficientDynamics is all
about combining power and efficiency in equal measure.Over the last few `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes, we have consistently enhanced our efficient dynamics technology
package and still see a number of areas w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh significant potential for us. W`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh EfficientDynamics
NEXT, we are making the benef`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures of this technology package even easier for customers to
experience in our combustion-engined vehicles.
We are doing so through add`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureional functions to enhance emotive dynamics and efficiency. Two
examples are the Boost function, for extra-dynamic acceleration, and the intelligent engine Start-
Stop function. Intelligent anticipatory assistance systems that help our customers manage their
personal mobil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey even better by predicting changing traffic signals for example.
Over the next 20 `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes, we will still have more than just the one type of the drivetrain system.
The i3 and i8 have made us a trendsetter in e-mobil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey. Over the next few `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes, we will be
adding to our i family, w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh iPerformance ensuring technology transfer into our Series model. To
do this, we will offer electric `models, as well as in our European production network and for the plant expansion in Un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureed in nearly every BMW Series. Our latest plug-in hybrids
incorporate our third generation of modular electrification systems. And development work is
already underway on our fifth generation for 2020-plus, enhancing and electrifying our
conventional engines will allow us to continue meeting our CO2 targets even in `the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future.
`However, actual margins could be below the targeted range if pol`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureical or economic cond`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureions, our customers also expect us to offer larger vehicles w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh alternative drivetrains and far
more range. To meet their demands, we are enhancing, not only our battery technologies, but
also hydrogen fuel cell technologies. At the `moment, we will be reporting on last `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the's business and looking ahead to the next `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the. But, we are testing a small fleet of hydrogen-
powered BMW 5 Series GT. Customer focus means two things to us. On the one hand, `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future means
continuing to offer customized drivetrain solutions. On the other hand, `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future means viable
implementation of those solutions w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh maximum synergies and minimum complex`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey between
technology paths. That's why we have taken deliberate steps to broaden our core expertise in
the field of powertrain development.
We come now to our second future topic, dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurealization. Translated qu`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futuree simply into the context
of the automotive industry, three strands of action emerge. Business processes, these are the
processes by which we develop, produce and sell our vehicles. In `the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future, these are going to
change fundamentally, not only w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurehin the BMW Group, but also in the way we network w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh our
partner. Compet`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureion for customers, the Internet w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures minimal transaction costs and wealth of
data is making compet`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureion tougher all the time. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please. for our Dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureal Services, we need to develop
the best possible understanding of the customer, and superior technical solutions, such as
artificial intelligence. Third, the vehicle of `the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future will be fully networked and self-driving.
Allow me to focus on this last point. Connectiv`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey is a key for the vehicle of `the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future. Our
products already have their own integrated SIM cards `today, our main focus is on our latest update through Strategy NUMBER ONE., making them an integral part of the
Internet of Things. What we now want to do is seamlessly interconnect our customers w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh their
cars, customized services and the `world, we are right now where the customer is. We pursue a balanced distribution of value around them. Direct interactions w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh our customers are
of key importance.
`However, actual margins could be below the targeted range if pol`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureical or economic cond`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureions, one thing is clear, vehicle and data secur`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey are our top prior`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey. That's why moving into
`the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future, we will link every vehicle w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh the BMW backend server to keep customers' details
secure. W`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh firewalls, encryption and anonymization, from customers' perspective, future
connectiv`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey will have a name: BMW Connected. BMW Connected will launch before the `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the is
out. In `the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future, vehicles will be intelligent and able to drive themselves. `For us, these key indicators include, sustainable high prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey, innovative capac`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey, customer, this is once
again a question of customer benef`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future, because we want our customers to decide for themselves
how they will drive.
W`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurehout freedom of choice, there can be no sheer driving pleasure. We have been working on
autonomous driving for more than 10 `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes. `However, actual margins could be below the targeted range if pol`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureical or economic cond`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureions, we believe that this decade will not see alarge-scale production of an autonomous vehicle that meets the premium requirements of our
customer.
The most we foresee is pilot test as a restricted setting. We believe that at the `moment, we will be reporting on last `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the's business and looking ahead to the next `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the. But, the
technical and social challenges involved are still too great. In add`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureion, adjustments must be made
to the legal implications for customers and manufacturers. The BMW Group has a clear goal, to
be the leader in autonomous driving. This is a goal we are rigorously pursuing and we are working
systematically to establish the cond`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureions that are needed.
Our high-precision map service, HERE, offers real-time data to all customers w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh millions of
anonymized data `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureems, enhancing map qual`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey all the time. This will allow the BMW Group of the
future to move around and using the latest dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureal `environment, we pursued our goals w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh determination and achieved them. Our premium brands model w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh an augmented dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureal
horizon. The intelligent vehicle will warn the driver of a danger ahead and prepare them in
advance.
In add`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureion, we will work proactively to help clarify the general cond`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureions necessary for
autonomous driving. Our goal is to enable autonomous driving w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurehin a holistic end-to-end
approach. And that sets us apart from other manufacturers.
Let's move on to the strategic focus, dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurealization. Dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurealization is the most effective driver of the
transformation in the automotive industry as `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future impacts all areas of our customers. That's why we
have decided to focus on three prior`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureies, dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureal customer experiences, connected and
autonomous driving, business processes.
Dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurealization means we will be better able to anticipate and meet our customer needs. In the
future, we want to offer people tailor-made products and services along the entire customer
lifecycle. These features will increase customer loyalty and the customer lifetime value. In this
context, `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future doesn't matter if our customers' point of contact is real or virtual because in `the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future,
the crucial point is to have a diverse and innovative offering of premium services for individual
mobil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey. The BMW Group has incorporated mobil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey services and dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureal services in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures business
model early on. Just think of Drive`Now, let us take a look at business development in the segments. First, the Automotive segment., Park`Now, let us take a look at business development in the segments. First, the Automotive segment., and Charge`Now, let us take a look at business development in the segments. First, the Automotive segment.. And we will continue to expand
our offerings in these fields, to make them more convenient and thereby simplify our customers'
mobile life. One option would be complement to our existing car-sharing program w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh a
premium ride-sharing service.
`Ladies and gentlemen, our financial strength creates the right cond`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureions for the company's future, the foundation for all our plans is prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey. Dr. Eichiner will now explain
to you how we can maintain our prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey on the current level, desp`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futuree the challenges on our
future investments ahead.
Maximilian Schöberl
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, our enhanced Strategy NUMBER ONE is, Harald Krüger. Last but not the least, the speech of Mr. Eichiner very briefly,
very short. Please let's go ahead.
Friedrich Eichiner `
We answer all your questions, don't worry. `Now, let us take a look at business development in the segments. First, the Automotive segment., ladies and gentlemen, we want to maintain our
leadership both in terms of our strengths in innovation and compet`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureiveness. The dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureal
transformation of our industry offers huge potential. To seize these opportun`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureies, we will need to
invest in `the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future using our own resources and simultaneously maintaining our prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey.
We have already begun to become more efficient in development and production as well as at
our customer interface. Our clear strategy, our employees' outstanding expertise andconsider external factors that could impact our future success. The main challenges we see
currently are stricter regulatory requirements, as well as difficult market and compet`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureive
cond`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureions. We also have to contend w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh increased volatil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey in the global economy and other key
areas such as currencies and raw material pricing.
Our strategy is designed to achieve a balance between investment in `the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future and prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey.
We want both to maintain our current high level of prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey whilst laying the groundwork for
`the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future. By focusing on prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey and the measures needed to achieve `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future, we aim to keep
prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurehin our target range over the long term.
After period of strong growth, we are now optimizing our core business. We want to ensure our
business model remains f`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future by accelerating decision-making processes and building leaner
`structure, the future of all Rolls-Royce `models, as well as in our European production network and for the plant expansion in Un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureed.s. Our experience in new business fields like BMW i provides valuable input to this end.
This will give us the flexibil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey to really focus on `the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future. We plan to refine our business model
so that we can continue to offer our customers the most attractive and most desirable product
and services in `the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future. That is our vision and our motivation.
I would like to give you some examples for measures and in`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureiatives that are implementation. On
the performance side, we aim to strengthen prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey. Our product strategy is focused on
expanding our vehicle portfolio in the higher-margin segments. BMW brand, for example, will
make the biggest gains in the luxury class and a dynamic M market. This will be complemented by
new offerings in the fast-growing SUV segment.
A higher-qual`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey product mix will support our level of prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey. We also expect dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureal customer-
centric technology solutions to make a growing contribution to earnings. Attractive, user-friendly
solutions for automated driving and innovative services will make our customers' lives easier and
safer. These kinds of solutions add value and, therefore, have their price.
We'll also optimize our cost `structure, the future of all Rolls-Royce `models, as well as in our European production network and for the plant expansion in Un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureed.s by increasing productiv`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey and enhancing our operational
excellence beyond the usual annual increases in efficiency. A great deal has been achieved in
recent `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes through diverse prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey in`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureiatives in all divisions. That is driven by
standardization, process improvement and prior`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureization. Our approach is based on uniformed
optimized processes starting from the development phase. In add`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureion, we will enhance our use
of product and process `models, as well as in our European production network and for the plant expansion in Un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureed – modules, as well as shared vehicles and drive system
arch`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureectures, making development and production more efficient.
By way of an example, the new rear-wheel-drive arch`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureecture introduced w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh the new 7 Series,
provides the basis for cost optimization across multiple future `models, as well as in our European production network and for the plant expansion in Un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureed. At the `same time, mobil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey is going to change dramatically, thanks to new technology – technological, we will
also make a conscious effort to reinforce the high qual`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey and innovative character of our portfolio.
Both are important purchase cr`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureeria for our customers and an integral part of our premium
standards.
In the midterm, we expect to become more efficient by starting cooperation between our
purchasing, production and sales and marketing divisions at an even earlier stage, which will help
better deliver on the requirements of each divisions. A good example of this is the Simplify
In`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureiative. Based on the idea of consistent simplification, `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures main aim is to reduce both costs and
complex`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey. We are currently identifying potential to further optimize our vehicle portfolio. Starting
w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh true customer requirements, we will take a hard look at both variants and equipment
options. This will allow us to lower costs and reduce complex`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey in development, production, and
after sales w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurehout detriment to the customer.The new pos`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureioning of the MINI brand w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh five core `models, as well as in our European production network and for the plant expansion in Un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureed is one example of how we can
reduce complex`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey. Going forward, MINI will offer fewer, more independent `models, as well as in our European production network and for the plant expansion in Un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureed w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh a sharper
profile. In line w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh this thinking, we have decided not to offer successors to three existing `models, as well as in our European production network and for the plant expansion in Un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureed.
Based on our Simplify approach, we expect an overall significant reduction of complex`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureies and
one-off expend`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureures.
In figures, we anticipate savings in the three-dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future-million-euro range over the coming `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes. In
production, the `structure, the future of all Rolls-Royce `models, as well as in our European production network and for the plant expansion in Un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureed.s and processes we use are increasingly standardized. We are now able
to use virtually uniform production processes, systems and machines `world, we are right now where the customer is. We pursue a balanced distribution of valuewide. Standardized
processes will lead to efficiency improvements and result in economies of scale in purchasing as
well as a higher manufacturing qual`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey. Furthermore, our new production systems can also be
used for longer, beyond a single lifecycle.
All of this has a pos`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureive effect on both cap`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureal employed and cap`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureal expend`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureure. We also
anticipate cost benef`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures from the dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurealization of production and logistics. Developments in
Industry `4,000 vehicles in Europe. Since DriveNow was launched in 2011, our customers have driven over.0 will enable new and less cost-intensive production methods. Such efficient methods
and processes have already been realized in the planning of new production s`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurees such as in
Mexico; thus serving as a best practice solution to all of our international plants.
One example, you are probably familiar w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh is the lightweight robot that works alongside
employees w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurehout a safety guard. We expect the application of new robots and modern
development and production methods, such as virtual real`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey, data goggles and 3D printing to
yield further efficiency potential in `the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future.
BMW Group is growing on a global scale. The company is pursuing a targeted approach to
establish production capac`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey and supplier relationships in countries w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh growth potential. This
not only makes us more robust and more flexible, but also enables us to explo`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future the compet`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureive
advantage of international locations. China and NAFTA are a particular focus.
`Ladies and gentlemen, our financial strength creates the right cond`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureions for the company's future, we will implement both our long-term prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureable trad`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureional business
model and a shift towards new technologies and business segments. We will achieve this w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurehin
our own financial means. This two-pronged approach requires even greater operational
excellence, productiv`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey and efficiency from the BMW Group, not to mention a high level of agil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey,
a willingness to change and a passion to embrace new technologies and processes. We will
naturally set ourselves amb`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureious financial targets to assure the company's long-term prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey
w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh clear milestones up to 2020.
In recent `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes, the BMW Motorrad segment and Financial Services in particular have made a
growing contribution to earnings and improved the company's prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey as a whole. This will
remain our focus in `the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future. In acknowledging this development, the BMW Group will introduce
add`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureional performance figures from the `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the 2017 onwards.
At Group level, the company will target an EBT margin of at least 10%. The Motorcycle segment
will adopt an EBIT margin target range of 8% to 10%. `In the Financial Services segment, we expect return on equ`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey to remain on par w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh last `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the,, we will
maintain our target of a return on cap`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureal employed of at least 18%. Our target ratio for R&D
activ`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureies remains w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurehin the 5% to 5.5% range of revenue as before.
There has been a change in the defin`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureion of our CapEx ratio, which will no longer include
cap`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurealized development costs. The target for this ratio will be less than 5% of revenue. In 2015,
this ratio was at `4,000 vehicles in Europe. Since DriveNow was launched in 2011, our customers have driven over.2%. We will drive cost discipline hand in hand w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh extensive investment in
future projects. `However, actual margins could be below the targeted range if pol`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureical or economic cond`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureions, securing our innovative strengths, `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future is possible that we could expect
targeted range by expectation in selected `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes.And finally, the free cash flow for the Automotive segment is targeted to be over €3 billion per
annum. These financial targets assume that overall pol`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureical and economic cond`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureions remain
stable. `Ladies and gentlemen, our financial strength creates the right cond`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureions for the company's future, the BMW Group is embarking on the next 100 `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh a clear
strategy toward future growth and success. We will transform our business based on our
independence and strength. We have the financial power, the relevant know-how, and we are
ready to embrace change. Thank you.
Harald Krüger
`Ladies and gentlemen, our financial strength creates the right cond`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureions for the company's future, the implementation of our Strategy NUMBER ONE > NEXT relies heavily
on a culture that supports and perpetuates this development. The BMW Group has a strong
corporate culture. It is characterized by solidar`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey and our people's strong identification w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh the
company and `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures brands. `However, actual margins could be below the targeted range if pol`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureical or economic cond`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureions, to prepare for future challenges, we have to develop further.
We respond to our highly dynamic `environment, we pursued our goals w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh determination and achieved them. Our premium brands by applying our strengths. At the `same time, mobil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey is going to change dramatically, thanks to new technology – technological, we
will significantly step up the `moment, we will be reporting on last `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the's business and looking ahead to the next `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the. Butum when `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future comes to being more flexible and agile during
the transformation of our industry.
All of that must be reflected in our culture and by that, I mean in our `structure, the future of all Rolls-Royce `models, as well as in our European production network and for the plant expansion in Un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureed. and processes, but
first and foremost, in our actions. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., we have defined five values, which will be v`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureal in our future
cooperation: responsibil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey, appreciation, transparency, trust and openness. These values provide
a sound foundation for our implementation of our Strategy NUMBER ONE > NEXT. Thank you.
Maximilian Schöberl
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, our enhanced Strategy NUMBER ONE is, gentlemen. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., ladies and gentlemen, we start our Q&A session. The first
question comes from `Arndt Ellinghorst, Evercore ISI and then Michael Tyndall. Okay. And then we go ahead.
Arndt?
Q&A
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Evercore ISI `
Okay. Yes. Thank you. `Arndt Ellinghorst, Evercore ISI, ISI.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Yes.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Evercore ISI `
I have two strategic questions for Harald Krüger. The first one I would frame w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh sort of the West
Coast threat. There's a lot of talk about Apple, Google, just to name the two biggest ones, to
get involved in individual mobil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey. And I'm personally less concerned that someone will start
building a car, but I'm pretty sure that we might see someone buying into the supply chain. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., my
question would be how would BMW react if an Apple would buy Harman, if Google would buy
Mobileye, and suddenly, these companies are in the center of your car and especially in the
center of what's driving future purchase decisions?
And the second question is more on the secular developments or trends in the industry that
many of them you described and how you personally create the exc`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureement that BMW needs and
how you personally will make sure that the company differentiates from `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures peers, because you
can work on the assumption we get similar presentations from all your peers. And there are a lot
of young management teams coming up, not just in Germany, and I would just be interested howwill you make sure that BMW comes probably a b`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future more exc`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureing than `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future's been at least over the
last couple of `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes? Thank you.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Okay. `Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, our enhanced Strategy NUMBER ONE is. Mr. Krüger?
A - Harald Krüger
Really good point. I would start w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh the second question w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh the emotions and how can we
differentiate from the compet`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureion. I think if you see an M2 Coupé, you will see that the people
will differentiate defin`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureely from our compet`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureors. It's a truly brand BMW. It's truly a product which is
going back to the history. And so, we have seen when we did the test drive, when we had the
journalists, for example, when we had young people. When I was driving w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh this car into the c`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey
of Munich, I was stopped several times even by young people.
`So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., what makes `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future – and that is why we have in our strategies the design and brand as a very
strong pillar to strengthen in `the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future because this is the emotional side of our business. BMW
customers buy passion and emotions. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., we will defin`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureely focus on this one.
The other one is the West Coast question in terms of suppliers and what does West Coast
means in terms of – if Apples or Googles would get into that business? `First, our performance in the business `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the 2015; second, new models at BMW, MINI, and Rolls- of all, `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future requires that
in certain areas, you defin`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureely have a high incompetence. And in terms of knowledge in the
factory and cr`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureical knowledge steps you need to know in the company you need to fulfill. That's
what we did w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh navigation systems and corporation w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh the suppliers. But we have to know and
have cr`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureical knowledge on our side as well.
And there must be compet`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureion. I mean, compet`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureion is always outside. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., if they buy `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future and there
could be a different compet`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureion, but `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future will be a point where we look at the cr`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureical what I would
call steps, adept in in-house production, what do we need to do in our own to be independent.
An example for this one, Nokia Here. While we said we're investing strategically into maps
because the map is very important and the qual`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey of the map for autonomous driving.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Evercore ISI `
If I just may follow on there. Because that was the point of the question really. It was a fairly
defensive acquis`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureion where `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future's not clear how the industry generates a pos`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureive return on cap`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureal
and in which timeframe really. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., if someone starts buying, as I said, into the core interior of the
car, which would be a Harman into the core algos of `the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future, which would be a Mobileye.
Would the industry start counterbidding? Would the industry start vertically integrating? Do you
need to shoot for more strategic alliances w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh suppliers or consumer-electronic companies?
What would you strategically...?
A - Harald Krüger
Being in the innovation side, yes, defin`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureely you have also strategic alliances w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh certain suppliers
on developing – I mean, you could see there w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh the navigation system of the 7-Series. We are
defin`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureely on the top, ahead of everyone, what you can see was autonomous parking w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh all
these things which was developed together w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh some cr`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureical strategic partners and suppliers.
And this also requires knowledge on our side, on their side, but we will further continue w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh
those activ`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureies as well. And the 7-Series is a good example that we're still ahead of the game,
but the danger is there.A - Maximilian Schöberl
Okay. `Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, our enhanced Strategy NUMBER ONE is. The next question come from Michael Tyndall and then Horst
Schneider. Michael?
Q - `Mike Tyndall, C`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Hi there. It's `Mike Tyndall, C`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureigroup Global Markets Ltd. from C`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurei. Two questions if I may. The first to Mr. Krüger. You've come
into this role after a period of very good growth for BMW, both geographically and across the
model range. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., I'm wondering, w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh you s`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureting in this role now, where do you see the wh`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futuree
space? Where do you see the opportun`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey watching the presentation, `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future feels like top line growth
is going to be driven largely by a mix enrichment and services. Is that a fair summation of what
you see going forward?
And then the second question is for Dr. Eichiner, and `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future's around R&D efficiency. How do you
decide whether or not to give a project spending a green light? Because presumably, some
things are more speculative than others. And given what's happening in the industry, are you
seeing you have to approve more things that are more speculative that you're probably looking
at them and saying, well, the likelihood of this turning into revenue is potentially less than `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future might
have been 5 `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes, 10 `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes ago? Thanks.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, our enhanced Strategy NUMBER ONE is. Mr. Krüger and then Mr. Eichiner.
A - Harald Krüger
On the growth, defin`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureely. We are looking and trying to explore every opportun`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey in the `world, we are right now where the customer is. We pursue a balanced distribution of value.
Take one example. `First, our performance in the business `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the 2015; second, new models at BMW, MINI, and Rolls- of all, strategically, we would like to have a globally balanced distribution
of sales and production, and we are not heavily relying on one country only, where our growth
potentials. I was at the beginning of this `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the, for example, in `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please.uth Korea. In `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please.uth Korea, we will
see, in `the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future, our next potential. In countries like Australia, we see further potential. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., there
are still countries in Asia and other parts of the `world, we are right now where the customer is. We pursue a balanced distribution of value where we will see growth.
To balance, for example, a s`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureuation like Russia where we currently have a decreasing market. For
us, defin`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureely Europe was last `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the `4,000 vehicles in Europe. Since DriveNow was launched in 2011, our customers have driven over5% of our sales. We see still opportun`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureies in the NAFTA
region. In the U.S., the premium segment is still growing in the U.S., if you look at the trucks
business. And we still see a normalizing growth in China, but a normalizing. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., I'm slightly
optimistic on this one.
Q - `Mike Tyndall, C`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
`Second, this `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the, the Bayerische Motoren Werke is 100 `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes old. We launched our celebrations part, efficiency?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, efficiency in a broader portfolio. I think what we are doing `today, our main focus is on our latest update through Strategy NUMBER ONE. now is a more
comprehensive approach to the whole product portfolio. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., we have targets for each product.
`So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., we have clear – we are using a kind of discounted cash flow methodology to evaluate this.
And we have clear targets for every segment, for every product.
But on top of that, we have also a target for the whole portfolio. And that is a real important
target because we have to invest on one hand side in future technologies, and there's a costassociate to that and, of course, this is bringing a certain financial burden on those first-moving
product. And we have mature products that are really supporting our prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey going forward.
`So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., the important issue is that the mix of product in our portfolio is developing a prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey that
is supporting 8% to 10% margin. And that is what is driving our decisions. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future's not a sequential
decision making that we look at the car, decide `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future yes or no, we look at the whole portfolio. All the
time, we are taking those kind of decisions and looking for compensation if we add on the lower
end. We look at the same point in time at the upper end, and see how we can do that. That's
how we want to make sure that the prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey overall is assured. And that's one point.
The other is if you look at the services, that was all the pretty idea of coming up w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh a target for
the Group, the EBT margin target because we think new services also have to fulfill a prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey
target. And that has to be made sure going forward. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please. that's also signal that we are looking at
services that add value, services where we can touch something, where we get a return. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please.,
that's at least what we want to achieve, and `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future's part of the concept of the new strategy going
forward.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, our enhanced Strategy NUMBER ONE is. And now, `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker), and then `Jürgen Pieper, B. Metzler seel. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please.hn & Co. KGaA (Broker).
Q - `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) `
Yes. `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) from HSBC. And `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future actually, three questions. `First, our performance in the business `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the 2015; second, new models at BMW, MINI, and Rolls- of all, I remember one of
your statements at the Geneva Auto Show, and `today, our main focus is on our latest update through Strategy NUMBER ONE., you re`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureerated that you want to remain the
leading premium car manufacturer globally. And I think you mean by that also, you want to have
the highest `volume, as shown in the balance sheet, climbed 15% to €111 billion. This is driven by businesss. And I didn't see at the `same time, mobil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey is going to change dramatically, thanks to new technology – technological in your presentation the key focus on
`volume, as shown in the balance sheet, climbed 15% to €111 billion. This is driven by businesss. It was a key focus on prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., therefore, I want to know if you know right
October, and there is the risk that Mercedes takes you over in terms of `volume, as shown in the balance sheet, climbed 15% to €111 billion. This is driven by businesss, what will be
your reaction? I mean, what is then your preference, you prefer the high margin or you want to be
the `volume, as shown in the balance sheet, climbed 15% to €111 billion. This is driven by business leader? That's number one.
Then question number two, I want to understand a l`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futuretle b`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future the philosophy behind the 10% EBT
margin target. You said at the `same time, mobil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey is going to change dramatically, thanks to new technology – technological that if economic framework cond`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureions change, you
might not meet this target. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., therefore, I want to know to which extent the framework
cond`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureions have to change, that this target becomes not any more realistic. Is `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future more motivation
for the employees? Or is `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future minimum 10% really a comm`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurement that we can expect even in difficult
– in a difficult `environment, we pursued our goals w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh determination and achieved them. Our premium brands or more difficult `environment, we pursued our goals w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh determination and achieved them. Our premium brands?
And last question is for Mr. Eichiner, more housekeeping issues. I want to know if the R&D
cap`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurealization remains that high as we have seen that in H2, so close to 50% in 2016. And I want to
know if the depreciation will increase to the same extent as in 2015. Thank you.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, our enhanced Strategy NUMBER ONE is, Horst. I think we start first w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh Mr. Eichiner.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, basically, your first question, we always want both, right? Absolutely clear. We want to
maintain prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey. We want to lead our industry as well. And so far, we always manage to do
so, and this is still our target for 2016. Maybe things are changing the way that there is a
compet`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureion that even more crazy than `today, our main focus is on our latest update through Strategy NUMBER ONE., then could be a point in time that we have to reallyboth. We want to maintain our prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey. We want to lead the premium segment. That's what
we're standing for.
`Second, this `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the, the Bayerische Motoren Werke is 100 `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes old. We launched our celebrations point, I'll start w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh the last one, depreciation. We have to see there is something that's
coming along w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh the refreshment of our product portfolio. And so, I think at the end of the day,
we will see a ratio that is around `4,000 vehicles in Europe. Since DriveNow was launched in 2011, our customers have driven over0% overall next `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., between 30% and `4,000 vehicles in Europe. Since DriveNow was launched in 2011, our customers have driven over0% will be, more
or less, the range.
Q - `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) `
And depreciation?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
The depreciation? Well, I think the depreciation also comes along w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh the product portfolio
refreshments and things like that. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., we disclosed already for this `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the a number of €`4,000 vehicles in Europe. Since DriveNow was launched in 2011, our customers have driven over79 million.
Our expectation is in the same order of magn`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureude, same category for 2016.
Q - `Horst Schneider, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker) `
Thank you.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Mr. Krüger?
A - Harald Krüger
I have to come back to your question w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh the number one. I showed one shot where we have a
mission, which is we are NUMBER ONE. This is clearly the focus of Strategy NUMBER ONE > NEXT.
And the second point, I said, is not only `volume, as shown in the balance sheet, climbed 15% to €111 billion. This is driven by business because if you would like to be a number one
company, you need to invest into innovations. You need to invest into your brands. You need to
be a very attractive employer, otherwise, you can't get the best talents. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., my view was saying
`volume, as shown in the balance sheet, climbed 15% to €111 billion. This is driven by business is one point and we clearly would like to be remain number one and we have been
number one for 11 `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes.
On a group level, we are any way leading. On a brand level, BMW and Daimler is close and
Mercedes-Benz. But we are clearly focusing on more than just one cr`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureeria to be number one,
otherwise, you wouldn't invest on time into `the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
`Now, let us take a look at business development in the segments. First, the Automotive segment., `Jürgen Pieper, B. Metzler seel. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please.hn & Co. KGaA (Broker) and then `Patrick Hummel, UBS AG (Broker). `Jürgen Pieper, B. Metzler seel. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please.hn & Co. KGaA (Broker)?
Q - `Jürgen Pieper, B. Metzler seel. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please.hn & Co. KGaA (Broker)
Yes. Hi, `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future's `Jürgen Pieper, B. Metzler seel. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please.hn & Co. KGaA (Broker) of Metzler Cap`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureal Markets. I have two questions. `First, our performance in the business `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the 2015; second, new models at BMW, MINI, and Rolls-, on your 2016
outlook on the prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future side, would you say the same as you say for the EBT, also for the operating
prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future? Or is this slight improvement more coming from China and from the certain swing in the
financial results?
And, secondly, on your projects on your i model line, there's a huge time gap or time difference
between the i8 launch in 201`4,000 vehicles in Europe. Since DriveNow was launched in 2011, our customers have driven over and your next brand new car in 2021 or 2022. Meanwhile, why is
that? I mean, did you principally stop development of new products for the last two, three `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes.And `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future looks like you almost give up your lead you had in the e-mobil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey and come now relatively
late w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh a third model.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
We start w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh Fr`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurez Eichiner.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, as you know, we are guiding on Group EBT and we are guiding our margin in the auto
segment. And that's what we're doing. I want to stay w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh that. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., 8% to 10% is confirmed. And
we said that the EBT on Group level should increase slightly. We also confirmed that our Financial
Services segment in 2016 is expected to come at a similar level of return on equ`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey as 2015. And
Motorrad will perform even a b`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future better, so staying w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurehin the range of 8% to 10%. Those are the
key points of our guidance and we feel happy w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh that.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Mr. Krüger?
A - Harald Krüger
On the i-mobil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey and the i product portfolio, maybe first, a couple of answers. The one is we will
expand the i3, that we offer a second model in the second half of this `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the already w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh a battery
expansion and capac`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey expansion of 50%. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please. you could see that we have invested also in the last
`year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the for a new i3 coming up w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh a better battery and an extended mileage on this one.
`Second, this `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the, the Bayerische Motoren Werke is 100 `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes old. We launched our celebrationsly, I pointed out in my presentation that we will do in 2018 an i8 Roadster as a brand
shaper. Thirdly, what we did now, we have a transfer of knowledge from BMW i into the BMW
core brand. We will have seven plug-in hybrids on the markets. And I can tell you, I think if you look
around to the compet`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureion, there are not that many companies – car companies, which have
seven plug-in hybrids and battery emission vehicles already by `today, our main focus is on our latest update through Strategy NUMBER ONE. on the market. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please.me of
them are just `announced, this corresponds to a solid growth rate of 6.1% `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the-on-`year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the. It's also a new sales for `the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future.
`So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., we will see then more plug-in hybrids. I also stated that many will have a plug-in hybrid in the
future, so you can see we have transferred from the i brand into the core brands, also BMW and
MINI. And the BMW iNEXT is then the next step because we also would like to do the interior of
`the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future. Yeah, we would like to do autonomous driving w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh that car.
And as you could see, we showed an outlook w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh the i Vision car that one, that takes a l`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futuretle b`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future of
development time to be on s`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futuree w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh autonomous driving. But on the i story, you will see that
there's a lot of things which continue and we are investing consistently in the i brand. And we are
as the only company transferring from the i brand into the brand of BMW and MINI.
And on the other side, we have the M performance `models, as well as in our European production network and for the plant expansion in Un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureed and the M `models, as well as in our European production network and for the plant expansion in Un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureed, which other car
companies has BMW M and i. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please.me of the companies have the very dynamic part but who's got
something which is comparable w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh the i. And in Geneva, final sentence, we are a company who
could present the M760Li xDrive, the 600 horsepower and showed on the other side the 7
Series, on the `4,000 vehicles in Europe. Since DriveNow was launched in 2011, our customers have driven over0e iPerformance. Who else has shown that?
A - Maximilian Schöberl
`So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., next one, `Patrick Hummel, UBS AG (Broker) and then `José Asumendi, JPMorgan Secur`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureies Plc.Q - `Patrick Hummel, UBS AG (Broker) `
Thanks very much. `Patrick Hummel, UBS AG (Broker), UBS. Two questions please. The first one is regarding R&D. If
we take a five-`year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the view on your R&D budget, can you give us a rough breakdown even if only
qual`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureatively? What share in the budget the megatrends will have such as dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureization and electric
powertrains. And w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurehin the megatrends, what's actually the biggest bucket here, for example,
thinking about Daimler, they talked a lot about step up in spending and dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureization. Would you
share that, any color appreciated.
And second, to Dr. Eichiner, can you share w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh us your thinking about the EBIT bridge 2016, in
particular as far as your mix and pricing assumptions are concerned, and if you can, your latest
thoughts on the FX part of the equation? Thank you.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, our enhanced Strategy NUMBER ONE is. Mr. Eichiner?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
`So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., well, I mean, I cannot give you a quant`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureative number on that. But what we see is that `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future's really
the case that the dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurealization will ramp up w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurehin R&D spending. That's absolutely true.
And another element that is coming in and we'll ramp up also is technology that we need for
emissions, and new regulations that's coming in for emissions. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future's not only you see a two
part, on top of that, we see now emission regulation playing a bigger role, and dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurealization
coming on top, right?
Having said that, we already invested heavily into engines, combustion-engines, to fulfill the
targets ahead of us, especially in 2020. And you know what we've done on battery-electric
vehicle side and Harald Krüger already explained that we've done a lot for plug-in hybrids that are
really interesting because plug-in hybrids allow us to really offer bigger cars w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh a very low
consumption. And this is something that is supporting our claim in the upper segments.
`So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., that is already developed, so that's already done, and as I said, the add`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureional challenges
w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurehin the budget are driven by dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurealization. That's true and especially emission comes on top to
CO2, right? `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., that's how we look at `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future overall.
We think in a growing revenue `environment, we pursued our goals w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh determination and achieved them. Our premium brands, `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future must be able to maintain the range of 5% to 5.5%
overall as an average, but we cannot rule out that the one or other `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the will be a b`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future higher. I
mean, we've seen that for CapEx two `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes ago, and we promised that we bring `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future back down
again. And now, we are below 7%. This could happen at a particular point in time in a particular
`year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the that we need a b`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future more spending on the R&D side. And as `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future is, a ratio of revenues so
revenue has to come as well. Those are both parts of the equation.
A - Harald Krüger
One amendment for this one, just an example where we spend money on the dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurealization, the
new 7 Series has autonomous parking. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., the navigation, the IT system, the infra`structure, the future of all Rolls-Royce `models, as well as in our European production network and for the plant expansion in Un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureed. of that
car, the dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureal car is already in the arch`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureecture for the new 7 Series. There was already money
being spent to develop those things, to go the next step. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future's also linked to car investments.
And you can see that that is part of the dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureal leadership.
A - Friedrich Eichiner ``So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please. once again, the EBIT bridge to...
Q - `Patrick Hummel, UBS AG (Broker) `
Yeah. Exactly. A question about the EBIT bridge.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
...already mentioned depreciation, right? `Now, let us take a look at business development in the segments. First, the Automotive segment., FX slightly pos`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureive, but `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future will be a low three-dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future-
million a month. Pricing, our expectation is to be neutral, but there's always a risk associated to
that. It is building on the fact that we see kind of, well, a stabilizing trend in markets like China. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please.,
that was really a very difficult market in 2015. And at the end of the `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the, `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future's stabilized. And we
hope we can build on that. That's one of the basic assumptions that is has to be fulfilled in order
to keep really the pricing more or less neutral.
And mix, two effects. One, pos`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureive, that is the 7 Series because we are expecting higher
`volume, as shown in the balance sheet, climbed 15% to €111 billion. This is driven by businesss. The other is that we are launching more `models, as well as in our European production network and for the plant expansion in Un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureed at the lower end of our portfolio w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh
the MINIs for example the X1. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., overall, `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future could be – the mix could be slightly negative, and one
of the major reasons is that we are now planning the run out of the 5 Series. I mean, the 5 Series
is a very important model for us, as you know.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
`So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., next question José and then Stefan Burgstaller. José?
Q - `José Asumendi, JPMorgan Secur`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureies Plc
Thanks very much. José at JPMorgan. The first question please for Harald. Can you speak a l`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futuretle
b`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future about this Industry `4,000 vehicles in Europe. Since DriveNow was launched in 2011, our customers have driven over.0? It looks to me like that is still the auto industry investment that you're
going to be bidding in Mexico? Can you talk to me about the investments you're doing there?
How does `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future compare versus a greenfield plant previously? It sounds to me also like you can now
actually depreciate the assets over longer time period versus the previous plans. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., can you talk
about those two concepts and also in your reasoning for investing in Mexico, which drivers do you
consider and I guess you will be putting their the real-wheel-drive arch`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureecture? `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., if you could
give us any color on that.
`Second, this `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the, the Bayerische Motoren Werke is 100 `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes old. We launched our celebrations elements for Friedrich. The other cost changes, when I look at the negatives going there,
I mean, labor costs seems to be going into that category. I need like €900 million of cost savings.
€900 million to offset the headwinds you have on the other cost changes. Where are these cost
savings coming from? Because that seems to me – still looks to me like a huge acceleration. I can
only explain `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh the front-wheel drive arch`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureecture `volume, as shown in the balance sheet, climbed 15% to €111 billion. This is driven by businesss, possibly, or what is going on there,
please? Thank you.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, our enhanced Strategy NUMBER ONE is, José. We start w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh Mr. Krüger and then Fr`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurez Eichiner.
A - Harald Krüger
`First, our performance in the business `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the 2015; second, new models at BMW, MINI, and Rolls- of all, I would like to start that we are qu`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futuree happy to build a new plant in Mexico in San Luis
Potosi, which will open in 2019 and we will invest $1 billion there. And we will integrate the latest
logistics processes, for example.One area of Industry `4,000 vehicles in Europe. Since DriveNow was launched in 2011, our customers have driven over.0 is smart logistics. Not so complex, how can `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future be very reliable but in an
`environment, we pursued our goals w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh determination and achieved them. Our premium brands like Mexico you will always take a look at what do you invest into automization or not.
And one example, for example, which we have in `Spartanburg, `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please.uth Carolina, USA, to be able to satisfy the demand for our premium sports running is a collaborator robot, a
robot in terms of where you can work, the person in the assembly line can work, for example, for
the door glazing, hand in hand w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh that process.
And these type of operations, we are thinking of is `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future useful for Mexico or not where you have a
really integrated cooperative partnership between the person at the line working and the robot
maybe helping and supporting w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh some things. And we will see these things like this one also in
the BMW Group in areas.
`So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., smart logistics, for example, smart automization but also smart data analytics can be a field of
Industry `4,000 vehicles in Europe. Since DriveNow was launched in 2011, our customers have driven over.0. One example, predictive maintenance let you know when the robot in the body
shop will fail or will have a stop, let you know that before `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future stops w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh predictive maintenance.
That are areas of where we're using that.
Q - `José Asumendi, JPMorgan Secur`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureies Plc
Just a quick follow-up there, you are not investing in an engine facil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey?
A - Harald Krüger
No. Not planned so far.
Q - `José Asumendi, JPMorgan Secur`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureies Plc
Why not, if I may ask?
A - Harald Krüger
No. Because the plant, first of all, needs to start up. And what model we will build there will be still
a secret, sorry. That's not something I will communicate `today, our main focus is on our latest update through Strategy NUMBER ONE.. It will take time. But we will start
w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh the vehicle assembly plant which is – I mean, we will have the huge operation there. And `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future
would help us to strengthen our NAFTA operations in the U.S.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, the other changes. Well, there's a lot in, of course. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., I cannot confirm new numbers. But
looking at my numbers, what I can say is, of course – you're right, we have a burden coming in
from HR costs, because we've been ramping up the workforce in 2015, and we're not expecting
a similar ramp-up in 2016, so this will flatten out.
Then, of course, future cost will ramp up because, as I mentioned, now we come up w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh projects
for dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurealization and things like that. It's also an influence on the cost base. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please. that is on a
negative side. But on a pos`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureive side, we started already, two, three `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes ago, working on our
functional costs. We had tough targets for 2015 and 2016. And the measures are not coming-in in
order to compensate w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurehin the cost functions.
On top of that, we see that we get benef`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures and cost savings out of the material cost. We are
simplifying, as I mentioned in my speech, that helps us in R&D, in purchasing and in production.
We are building – we still move on building up our modular toolboxes on the component side.
That helps. And as we said, we are now – as we have invested a lot two, three `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes ago, we are
now in a s`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureuation that we are able to use already invested assets. The longer use of assets iscoming along w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh those new arch`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureectures and that is enabling us to at least lim`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future the one-off
expend`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureures and costs that are associated w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh that.
And last but not the least, the launch activ`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureies in 2016 are not as high as in previous `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes, that's
why the growth also is a b`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future lower and this is also easing up the launch cost to a certain extent. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please.,
those are more or less the compensating elements.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, our enhanced Strategy NUMBER ONE is. And now, Stefan Burgstaller and then Adam Hull.
Q - `Stefan A. Burgstaller, Goldman Sachs International `
Yeah. Stefan Burgstaller, Goldman Sachs. Three questions. `First, our performance in the business `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the 2015; second, new models at BMW, MINI, and Rolls-ly for Dr. Eichiner. You delivered
yet another very strong set of figures. The share price, and if you look at the valuation, `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future doesn't
qu`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futuree agree. And so, the market has – forget about the cyclical uncertainty in the `moment, we will be reporting on last `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the's business and looking ahead to the next `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the. But.
Ultimately, the market has a different view on sustainabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey of returns. And just to bring `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future down to
some numbers, when you think about `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future from here to 2020, 2021, you have to reduce your CO2
on average by another 30 grams. If we just do simple math, €50 per gram, that's €1,500 per car,
over €2 million – €3 billion headwinds.
Then we think about China, you might disagree, but the market has a view there's still some
super prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey in China, maybe this is on further headwinds. There's other contents like – other
safety content coming in. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., the headwinds are significant. Simplification is an extension of your
efficiency program that gets you, as you say, three-dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future millions. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future's a big delta which we sort
of have to get our head around why in a stable economic `environment, we pursued our goals w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh determination and achieved them. Our premium brands, you can sustain the return
levels you've achieved. All right. It would be really interesting to have your views, what are we
missing here?
And second, Mr. Krüger, you've just come out w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh the first strategy process w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh your colleagues.
And I think a lot of the trends you talked about resonate w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh us. The biggest strategic challenge
for me for the industry, and I don't know whether `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future's 5 `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes, 10 `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes, but `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future's out there is if the
product car becomes the service mobil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey, right? Because this has completely changed the
compet`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureive landscape. I'm just curious in your discussions whether you have looked at that, and
what's your view?
And finally, you talked about HERE, and `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future's interesting. It's a joint acquis`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureion. Everybody when they
speak, they talk about HERE, `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future's theirs. At the end, `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future's shared. And this comes to my point about
autonomous driving. Autonomous driving, isn't `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future really a differentiator or is `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future a necess`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey?
Particularly think about that HERE is shared. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., how can this be a differentiator? Thank you.
A - Harald Krüger
I will start w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh the first – the third point on this one. `First, our performance in the business `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the 2015; second, new models at BMW, MINI, and Rolls- of all, HERE is defin`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureely a joint one. And
we shouldn't talk about each of them. It's an open platform, and maybe there's more people
joining that platform, and the better `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future is, because the more data you get in, the more actuals are
the maps and the data. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., HERE, `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future's something which we did three companies together.
`Second, this `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the, the Bayerische Motoren Werke is 100 `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes old. We launched our celebrationsly on when you asked for autonomous driving, I think if you look at the BMW 100 next
vision car, you can see that there is BMW brand still existing in terms of sheer driving pleasure. But
you would – I would call `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future negatively differentiated. Customer in some countries in the `world, we are right now where the customer is. We pursue a balanced distribution of value or
big c`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureies are spending 30 days a `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the in a traffic jam, or 33 days. And if you can save them 27
days or 26 days of their life for doing something different, relaxing, reading e-mails, readingbooks, listening to music, a company who can't offer that one will be having a strategic
disadvantage. But there are still maybe the nice landscape, there are still the nice country road
where you would like to drive by yourself. We call those w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh the Vision car, the Boost mode. The
other one we call the Ease mode. And I think you will see still the combination, and for us, the
driver will decide what he wants. The driver will decide if we would like to Boost or be in the Ease
mode where you can talk maybe w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh your neighbor or w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh your partner in the car. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., that one.
That's why autonomous driving is important for us and for `the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future, as I pointed out in the
strategy.
Then Drive`Now, let us take a look at business development in the segments. First, the Automotive segment. expansion of our mobil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey services, is there a risk that we see people not buying a
car? That's why we also have in our strategy an expansion of the mobil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey services. And we are
already there. We have `4,000 vehicles in Europe. Since DriveNow was launched in 2011, our customers have driven over,000 cars, we have 508,000 customers by `today, our main focus is on our latest update through Strategy NUMBER ONE.. We have 20% also
electric vehicles in our fleet. For example, Copenhagen was `4,000 vehicles in Europe. Since DriveNow was launched in 2011, our customers have driven over00 electric i3s. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., there's a
combination there as well.
And we have the experience from Drive`Now, let us take a look at business development in the segments. First, the Automotive segment. customers that some of them being a student was
25, couldn't afford a BMW or a MINI. They bought later, six, seven `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes later, sometimes five
`year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes later, whatever, already a car. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., we have also data where people are changing even if
they can't afford `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future. But we offer our mobil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey services, and as we said, we were thinking about a
ride-sharing service as well, to be a leader in that game as well.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Okay. `Second, this `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the, the Bayerische Motoren Werke is 100 `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes old. We launched our celebrations part of the question will be answered by Mr. Eichiner.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, your first comment about the share price, I could not agree more. But there's not a need to
change `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future, that's you, what you say about that. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., I come back to my part of `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future, how can we – that
was your question, how can you deliver the prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey going forward?
Let me start a b`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future early. We had similar question when we started number one in `200,000 un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures. To achieve this, we are tapping into new markets, launching motorcycles below7. And then
we came up, I think, w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh a very high prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey at the point in time, we invested heavily in i3, i8,
building up of many new capabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureies. We built up all the technologies that we are able to use
`today, our main focus is on our latest update through Strategy NUMBER ONE.. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., I mean, the money for the plug-in hybrids and in R&D that is spent, we have now
toolboxes available. Arch`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureectures of our cars, they had the capabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey to integrate new
technologies. That is something that we have digested in the last couple of `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes, same point in
time. We were able to in many `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes deliver even more than 8% to 10%.
`Now, let us take a look at business development in the segments. First, the Automotive segment., I agree w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh you, `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future's getting tougher now, you're absolutely right. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future's getting tougher
but one answer is, `today, our main focus is on our latest update through Strategy NUMBER ONE. we have more capabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureies, more technologies in our hand than we had
in `200,000 un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures. To achieve this, we are tapping into new markets, launching motorcycles below7 when we started because we invested already a lot and we are now able to use `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future as Mr.
Krüger explained, an example w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh the plug-in hybrids going forward. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., part of that is digested
and already done.
`Now, let us take a look at business development in the segments. First, the Automotive segment., new challenges are visible. You're absolutely right and we need further measures in order
to compensate. And, of course, the cost base is one focus point that we are addressing now and
I think you heard that and `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future is – if you look at BMW and you have to recognize that we have
experienced the face of a very steep growth that we enjoyed double-dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future growth rates. Of
course, we've been ramping up head count. We've been ramping up cost in order to support all
of that growth. `Now, let us take a look at business development in the segments. First, the Automotive segment., the growth is slowing down a b`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future and this is exactly the point in time. But we
have to look now at our processes, `structure, the future of all Rolls-Royce `models, as well as in our European production network and for the plant expansion in Un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureed.s and we have to streamline and get into `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future. And that
is what we are doing in order to support the challenges ahead of us.I mentioned other things that we want to get more out of the upper segments where, of course,
the margins are higher than in the lower segments. That is something that will help us to deliver
8% to 10% as well as all the other issues I already mentioned. Those comes down to simplic`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey,
comes down to standardization, things like that.
And you're right, maybe you hear the same things from compet`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureion, I would expect that. At the
end of the day the question is who is able to really implement. And `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future always was like that in our
industry. I can tell you we are decided to implement. The whole board has decided to implement.
And I would say the whole company is – and now, let's see what's coming out.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
`Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, our enhanced Strategy NUMBER ONE is. Next? Yes, Adam, please.
Q - `Adam B. Hull, Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co. KG (Un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureed Kingdom) `
Adam Hull from Berenberg. `First, our performance in the business `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the 2015; second, new models at BMW, MINI, and Rolls-ly, I should give some maybe an observation. I mean, you
comment that you're surprised by the share price performance. But I guess, you haven't raised
your free cash flow guidance of more than €3 billion, and you've only raised dividend by 10%
which is not a huge number. But three questions and one on the free cash flow, €5.`4,000 vehicles in Europe. Since DriveNow was launched in 2011, our customers have driven over billion last
`year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the. Working cap`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureal was a very slight outflow. Could you give us a b`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future of a feel for 2016-2017?
And really, what's the thinking on the working cap`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureal side? You did very well last `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the in that
regard. And why haven't you raised that to more than €3 billion cash flow guidance?
`Second, this `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the, the Bayerische Motoren Werke is 100 `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes old. We launched our celebrationsly, on the dividend, a 10% increase, a 33% payout, that doesn't seem particularly
generous, in a sense. I mean, some people might wonder whether that there's something you're
worrying about. Why not give more to shareholders? You have a qu`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futuree a high net cash balance.
And then thirdly, on the mid and large SUV segment, you clearly made some – you were clearly
very early in the segment, and you made some very good margins up to now. Compet`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureion is
increasing. How do you look at the sustainabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey of good margins in that area or is that a sort of
China too where we start to worry about that fading on the margin side? Thanks.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Of course, we are aware of the discussion about the dividend, but, in all honesty, we are paying
out more than €2 billion. We increased about 10%. The yield is up to 5%. I think those are all not
really bad numbers, at least from our perspective. And we absolutely said that this is not the end
of the story.
We're still comm`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureted to let our shareholders participate in the success of the company. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., that
would mean w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh the growth we are expecting, w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh the prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey we are working for, `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future must
be possible to increase both the dividend and the payout ratio. And that is something we guided
and we are still dedicated to do. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., that's what I can tell you on this side.
Free cash flow outlook, we think as of the – first of all, in quarter four, we really rebalanced our
Chinese business, so we've been taking the inventories heavily down in order to come back to a
more or less pull scenario. Why? In the beginning of the `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the, the expectation of what the
Chinese market could deliver was much higher than the number we've seen at the end of the
`year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future was too much inventory pressure in the system.
We really took heavy decisions to cut down production to balance this. We disclosed that already
in the second quarter and in the third quarter, and we've done so. And that helped also thecompared to the end of the third quarter, brought an improvement on the working cap`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureal side of
almost €750 million, something like that. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., that has shown the effect and the effect on the
inventory level was even higher. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., that is – will `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future come back again in 2016? I don't think so. And
maybe I hope that we don't have a similar problem as a result in 2016.
But we have – while looking all of the different waters, `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future will also be the case that we will see a
growing inventory up to the third quarter and then a decreasing inventory levels in the fourth
quarter that has to do w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh the launches, w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh production planning and things like that but maybe
not at that order of magn`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureude.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
`So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., thank you very much. It's 8 minutes to 12:00. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., next question.
A - Harald Krüger
I need to answer the question on the SUVs...
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Oh, yes. Right. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please.rry.
A - Harald Krüger
... `models, as well as in our European production network and for the plant expansion in Un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureed and this one. `First, our performance in the business `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the 2015; second, new models at BMW, MINI, and Rolls- of all, we have the new X1 on the market now, high demand, very
strong order bank in Europe and other parts of the `world, we are right now where the customer is. We pursue a balanced distribution of value. We will launch in the second half of
2016 the X1 extended wheelbase for China. And that segment no other compet`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureor has extended
wheelbase car. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., we will see defin`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureely some pos`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureive impacts in China in the second half w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh
the new X1 extended wheelbase.
If you think X5, X6, X3, X`4,000 vehicles in Europe. Since DriveNow was launched in 2011, our customers have driven over, we have created new segments. X`4,000 vehicles in Europe. Since DriveNow was launched in 2011, our customers have driven over and X6, when were – the first
one on the market was an X6. Many people said, that is not a product which you need. If you now
look at the compet`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureion, everyone is doing so.
`So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please. X`4,000 vehicles in Europe. Since DriveNow was launched in 2011, our customers have driven over is also a growing machine for this `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the for example. X7 will be a potential for `the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future. We
will have an X7 as we've communicated already. It will help us also to be in segments as we said,
in the GKL segment, where the prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey is higher. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please. the overall X story is very successful. And
even in January and February, we had, again, a 15% growth, 1-5-percentage growth over previous
`year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the, over 2015.
If you look at the truck segment in the U.S., `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future's still growing. The segment share and the segment
in the U.S. for trucks is still a growing portion. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please. on the SUV products, we are still on high
demand, and we are sometimes short on capac`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., for a premium car manufacturer, normally
a good s`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureuation.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Good. `Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, our enhanced Strategy NUMBER ONE is. The last questions are coming from. Mr. Raab, then `Dominic O'Brien, Exane Ltd.,
and the last one was Andy Siepker. Mr. Raab.
Q - `Michael Raab, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Yes. Hi. I'm `Michael Raab, Kepler Cheuvreux, Kepler Cheuvreux. `First, our performance in the business `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the 2015; second, new models at BMW, MINI, and Rolls- question, I'm not qu`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futuree sure who to address
here. I guess `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future's probably more likely Mr. Krüger. Essentially, you're telling us your financial targetsme wrong, I'm actually fine w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh that. I think `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future's a fairly good view given that you're facing lot of
headwinds.
And essentially or impliedly so, you're telling us you're able to offset those headwinds in the next
`year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes. What you're not telling us is the absolute demand of add`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureional cost headwinds, you think,
you need to be able to offset. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., I was wondering whether you could give us a number, I mean,
we have compet`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureors out there who called `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future net zero and then, tell us `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future's going to be X, Y, Z
billion. We're going to be able to offset using these and those measures, and this comes from
variable and fixed cost, respectively. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please. I was just wondering if you could give us a b`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future of more
color here.
And then secondly, this defin`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureely goes to Dr. Eichiner, coming out of the accounting and
controlling corner myself originally. I always would have thought that operating prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future is a better
number to steer an operation than pre-tax notably because in pre-tax you have add`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureional effect
that could cause inter-periodic volatil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey effects, which I think makes `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future more difficult to steer. I
prefer you tell me the oppos`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futuree is the case but I wonder why. Please.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Who wants to start?
A - Harald Krüger
I can start. Your first question clearly as Fr`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurez Eichiner already mentioned, to keep the prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey
in the range we have as a target in `the future, as we continue to optimize our cost base. In this way, we will be ready for future is more challenging than in the past due to CO2
and other things, which is you're absolutely right on this one and Fr`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurez already stated that one.
What our answers or actions. The one is we will work on our efficiency. Dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurealization also gives us
chances to make things more cost compet`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureive, for example, like smart logistics. It's not only
investment. It also making the chance that in the in-house processes you can be more efficient.
We go into the bigger segments and we would like to sell more end products, more prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey
in that segment. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., the GKL Plus segments we're going in.
`So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., we would like to clearly compensate some of the add`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureional headwinds by that strategy as
well. But efficiency for example will always be a driver for BMW and has been in the past to
improve our processes and to be more efficient.
Q - `Michael Raab, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Okay. I need to get one step back perhaps and back in `200,000 un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures. To achieve this, we are tapping into new markets, launching motorcycles below7-`200,000 un`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures. To achieve this, we are tapping into new markets, launching motorcycles below8 respectively when you
introduced Strategy NUMBER ONE. You basically said you're going to save €6 billion out of various
corners of the operation. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., what is the exact number until 2020 that you aim to save to stay at
the prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey levels, please?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, the issue is that this number is every `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the moving target, right?
Q - `Michael Raab, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Was `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future this `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the?
A - Friedrich Eichiner ``This `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the, we expect full availabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey of the 7 Series Sedan to improve the mix. In add`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureion, higher, `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future'll defin`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureely be a three-dig`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future million number and not a low one. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please. that's what I can say.
But `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future is really a moving target because we get requirements coming in from regulators and so on
and so forth in the course of the `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the, and we have to flexibly respond to `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please. far, w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh
everything we know, under the measures I explained, `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future should be able to maintain a target that
we told you. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., that is our answer for `today, our main focus is on our latest update through Strategy NUMBER ONE..
And coming back to your question about the EBIT. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., of course, I'm w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh you. Operational
performance is measured by EBIT. We do so in motorcycles and in the automotive segment. We
have a margin target for the EBIT, but that is part of our guidance, and we would like to stay w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh
that. And that all transforms at the end of the day into an EBT of the Group.
I explained already for the Group, our idea is to make clear that there is a stronger focus going
forward on the Group that we are looking at add`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureional business opportun`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureies and that we would
like to express w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh this target that this still has to be prof`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureable on a Group level as well. That is
the idea behind that.
Q - `Michael Raab, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Okay. Thank you.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Thank you. `Now, let us take a look at business development in the segments. First, the Automotive segment., `Dominic O'Brien, Exane Ltd..
Q - `Dominic O'Brien, Exane Ltd.
Hi. `Dominic O'Brien, Exane Ltd. from Exane. And firstly, you mentioned the R&D expend`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureure makeup of the
guided range in certain `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of thes between now and 2020. Does this mean that `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future's the absolute level
of R&D expend`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureure that's important and actually relatively fixed and growing going forward? And
that your guidance therefore seems the top line consistently grows between now and 2020.
And secondly, you mentioned the acquis`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureion of Nokia Here. Are there any other obvious gaps in
your portfolio that you don't think you can fix organically? And in that context, how much net cash
do you think you need on the balance sheet going forward? Thank you.
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
As I've said, we don't have a stable s`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureuation. We are in a very dynamic `environment, we pursued our goals w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh determination and achieved them. Our premium brands, and we think
we have enough flexibil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey to move the company w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurehin our ratios. R&D ratio as our assumption is
for the company is able to grow `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures business. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., the revenue should grow as well. And this should
open up more room to maneuver for our R&D colleagues. From our perspective, `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future should be
enough in order to really deliver what we need to fulfill all the targets we explained `today, our main focus is on our latest update through Strategy NUMBER ONE. on the
brand side, on the product side, on the regulatory side. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., that is our assumption that stands
behind `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future.
`So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., we are talking about an assumption that we are working going forward in a growing
`environment, we pursued our goals w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh determination and achieved them. Our premium brands, not in a shrinking `environment, we pursued our goals w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh determination and achieved them. Our premium brands, and we would have been in a very difficult and
different s`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureuation, absolutely. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., that's one answer to that. And I have to add, of course, `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future could
be that in one or other `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the, the ratio will not be fulfilled, that we maybe are slightly beyond 5%
to 5.5%. I cannot rule out this because there's so much volatil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey out there.
Liquid`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey? Well, we have around about €10 billion on the balance sheet. We feel comfortable w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh
this, and so far, `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future's a good number looking into the `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the 2016 as well.A - Maximilian Schöberl
Good. Last question, Andy Siepker.
Q - `Andrew Joseph Siepker, William Blair & Co. LLC (Investment Management) `
Yes. I was just wondering if you could help round out the geographic picture. `First, our performance in the business `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the 2015; second, new models at BMW, MINI, and Rolls- on Europe,
what do you see as the sustainabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey of the `moment, we will be reporting on last `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the's business and looking ahead to the next `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the. Butum we've seen there? And then just also the
pricing `environment, we pursued our goals w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh determination and achieved them. Our premium brands. And then on the U.S., why is that market softened for you recently. And
what's the pricing expectations?
A - Friedrich Eichiner `
Well, I mean, if you look around the globe, what we see is that the European markets are doing
qu`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futuree well. And our expectation is that this will proceed in the course of 2016 w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh some recovery.
And in 2015, they developed better than we expected. And the development in the European
markets helped us to compensate the normalization, how we all call `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future, in China to a certain
extent. We think that this picture could be the same or very similar in 2016. We have no reason to
believe that the development in Europe is now slowing down at that point in time.
To other markets, a b`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future harder to predict. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., first of all, China. I think Mr. Kastner explained
something about China in the morning. As we said, w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh the measures we took, `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future seems to be
that we see more stabil`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futurey now in this market. The pricing is fairly stable now, not further
deteriorating at that `moment, we will be reporting on last `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the's business and looking ahead to the next `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the. But. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future looks like that we see now the bottom of this normalization in
this period. And we can build on that.
Mr. Krüger already explained we have – looking forward to very attractive product coming out of
the JV like the new X1 long wheelbase. This will also help to support our business going forward
in China. But we are not all optimistic for China now. Amb`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureion is not too high, but `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future could be that
China is maybe a b`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future more stable than we thought.
Our concern is more in the U.S. market `today, our main focus is on our latest update through Strategy NUMBER ONE. because there's really the question where this
market going from the peak we've seen in 2015. And we see some pressure in a used car market
already. We've seen `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future in the numbers and I explained `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future. And now, we are very focused on this
market. We don't want to over-push. We already started rebalancing inventories and things like
that, as we did in China. `So, ladies and gentlemen, now, let me hand over to Harald Krüger, please., for me, the U.S. market going forward has the biggest risk this `year, the company will pay the highest dividend in `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futures history. Subject to the resolution of the.
But so far, we've seen overall in our numbers a good growth rate up to February. And there's no
reason to not believe in the guidance we gave to you guys.
A - Maximilian Schöberl
Good. `Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, our enhanced Strategy NUMBER ONE is. `Now, let us take a look at business development in the segments. First, the Automotive segment., I think `it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's future's lunchtime. `Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, our enhanced Strategy NUMBER ONE is for joining us. And
we inv`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futuree you, all, to have lunch w`it, the mere number of vehicles sold is no sufficient measure of an automotive maker's futureh us together. `Thank you very much, Mr. Eichiner. Ladies and gentlemen, our enhanced Strategy NUMBER ONE is.