Q4 2017 Earnings Call

Presentation material referred to this
conference. Please also refer to the report on risks and opportunities, which you will find in our
most recent Annual Report. The BMW Group does not assume any obligation to update these
forward-looking statements or the information.
Thank you very much. And now, I would like to hand over to Harald.
`Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of ManagementLadies and gentlemen, good morning and welcome from my side. We achieved all of our targets
in the year 2017. The BMW Group is the clear number one in the premium segment and has been
for the past 14 years. We intend to make 2018 our ninth record year. For deliveries and revenues
in the Automotive segment, we are again striving for new all-time highs. Strategy NUMBER ONE >
NEXT is the path to the BMW Group's success over the long term.
It provides a road map for our transformation towards sustainable and digital mobility. We are
making good progress with our strategy. You can see this in the decisions we have made on the
market side, in our product, and in our services. Let's take a look at the first point. The BMW
Group has a decisive advantage in an ever more connected world. We are a global company
through and through and extremely flexible. We have 30 production sites in 14 countries. We are
already producing electrified models at 10 locations worldwide. Next year, we will also begin
producing the all-electric MINI at Oxford.
Also in 2019, our plant in Mexico will start production. Our new plant will produce for the global
market. We want to remain in a good position to take advantage of opportunities in individual
markets. To achieve this, we are increasing our footprint in all major market regions. In the U.S.,
we delivered more than 350,000 vehicles to customers last year. In 2018, we expect to see
slight growth.
Spartanburg is the biggest plant in our global network. We have invested almost €9 billion in the
site so far, with another €600 million to follow between 2018 and 2021. Over 70% of the vehicles
produced in Spartanburg last year were exported. According to the U.S. Department of
Commerce, BMW plant Spartanburg is the leading U.S. automotive exporter by value. We are
proud to be responsible for around 70,000 jobs in the U.S., including dealer network and
suppliers. The U.S. is our second largest purchasing market, with a volume of €4.7 billion. None of
this would be possible without free trade.
China remains our largest single market with more than 595,000 vehicles sold last year. In China,
we operate two car production plants and one engine plant. In 2018, we are targeting solid
growth there. Here are two examples of how we are positioning ourselves in China. We are
stepping up our partnership with Brilliance as part of our joint venture, and have decided to build
the new X3 in China, starting mid-2018. This high volume vehicle will be the sixth localized model.
A long wheelbase version of the BMW 5 Series is now also available as a plug-in hybrid. Chinese
customers, therefore, have six different electrified models to choose from. This gives us an
excellent foundation for the years ahead.
We recently signed a letter of intent for a further joint venture with Chinese manufacturer Great
Wall Motor. In the future, we also have a plan to produce pure electric MINI vehicles in China. In
Europe, we sell more cars than anywhere else. The total number for 2017 was over 1.1 million. This
year, we expect another slight increase in sales. The UK will remain an important production
location for us, even after it leaves the European Union.
And now, to the second topic, products. The BMW Group leads the premium segment
worldwide, and we are striving to lead in all segments where we are present. In Phase II of our
model offensive, we will be making a huge push, focusing on two aspects: luxury and X. Over the
next 18 months alone we will be launching eight new models in the highly-profitable luxury
segment.
This summer, the new BMW 8 Series Coupé marks the start of a completely new model series,
where the Coupé, the lovely convertible and the Gran Coupé, as well as the corresponding M
models. The new X7 is extremely spacious and has a magnificent presence. Customers in theU.S., Asia, and Russia have been waiting for a long time for a vehicle like this. We will begin
producing the X7 in late 2018.
Rolls-Royce is the pinnacle of luxury and elegance. The same applies to the new Phantom and the
new Cullinan, the first ultra-luxury SUV.
2018 will also be our X year. Customers love the new X3. This year, we will begin building it in
South Africa and in China, in addition to Spartanburg. The cool looking X2 has been scoring up
top marks in the fast-growing compact class since March. The new X4 is athletic from top to
bottom. It will be available in summer.
Our model offensive is also a drivetrain offensive. We are using scalable modular kits for
electrification. From 2020, we will be able to fit all model series with any type of drivetrain. This
shows our future is electric and sustainable. With our electric cars and plug-in hybrids models, we
are already number one in Europe.
As you know, I have set some clear targets for sustainable mobility. More than 140,000 electrified
vehicles sold this year, a total of 0.5 million electrified vehicles and plug-in hybrids on the roads by
the end of 2019. 25 electrified models, 12 of them pure electric by 2025.
Over the course of this year, we will present a number of pure electric concept vehicles that will
all go into serious production. Like our new technology flagship, the BMW iNEXT and the
captivating BMW i Vision Dynamics, which I announced as the BMW i4, the car here on my left
side. We will produce both in Germany. In 2020, we will launch the first all-electric BMW.
More on the iX3 soon at the auto show in Beijing. 2019 will see the first pure-electric MINI. The
first MINI plug-in hybrid, the Countryman is already proving very popular. The new BMW i8
Roadster and i8 Coupé will be available as of May this year. Both models come with the fourth
generation BMW eDrive technology.
With the fifth generation of eDrive, our vehicles will be able to drive 550 to 700 kilometers on
electric power, depending on the model. We will all achieve this with the BMW i4 and the iNEXT.
But the BMW iNEXT is far more than just a car, it will enable the entire company and all our brands
in terms of technology, design and new approaches.
The iNEXT combines autonomous driving, connectivity, electrification and services. Sustainable
mobility and autonomous driving go hand-in-hand for us. Soon, we will be opening our campus for
autonomous driving outside Munich. We will be launching autonomous driving in the iNEXT in 2021.
This means we will technically master Level 3 to 5. The system will be fully integrated and safe.
Our test fleet for Level 4 and Level 5 will take to the roads at the same time as the iNEXT. When
it comes to autonomous driving, safety is our top priority. This year, we will double the size of our
autonomous test fleet to around 80 vehicles.
And now to my third point, mobility services. At the start of the year, we took full ownership of
DriveNow. We also acquired Parkmobile LLC, making the BMW Group the largest international
provider of digital parking solutions. We now have all the options we need for continued strategic
development of our mobility services. We want to be customers' first stop for individual mobility.
We will build a customer base of 100 million active customers by 2025.
Our goal is to create a complete, all-inclusive ecosystem for customers. The potential is huge
both for customers and for our business success. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the challenges
and the headwinds, we remain optimistic, determined and fully focused. We intend to make 2018
our ninth record year. And as you know, we `always, the Annual Report is also on line. deliver on our promises. In our areas of ourbusiness, we are pushing forward at top speed. Our future is electric and fully connected, and the
customers will be `always, the Annual Report is also on line. at the heart of everything we do. Thank you.
`Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much, Harald. And now, Nicolas.
`Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Thank you, Max. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and a warm welcome. Despite volatile
environment, the BMW Group achieved another record year in 2017. We may not be participating
in the space race, but once again, we do deliver on our down-to-earth targets. For the eighth
consecutive year, the EBIT margin for our core business was within our target range of 8% to 10%
at 8.9%. We achieved this despite spending more money on research and development in 2017
than ever before. A company that delivers such a consistently high level of performance like the
BMW Group can continue to achieve many great things in the future.
Now let's take a look at the business figures for last year. The group EBT margin for 2017 was
10.8%. This also underlines our continuity. In each of the past seven years, we have consistently
met or exceeded our target of 10%. Group revenues climbed to €98.68 billion. Pre-tax earnings
topped at €10 billion year mark for the first time, reaching nearly €10.7 billion.
This also reflects our strong operating performance at group level. This 10.2% increase is slightly
higher than we forecast at the start of the year due also to high positive effects in the financial
results. Most notably, the strong performance of our Chinese joint venture, BBA Brilliance and a
tailwind of €183 million from new investors acquiring a stake in the mapping service, HERE.
So lower tax rate of 18.3% was mainly due to remeasurement of deferred taxes as a result of the
U.S. tax reform. Without this effect, the effective tax rate would have been around the same level
as last year. As a result, net profit for the financial year 2017 reached over €8.7 billion. For the
coming years, we continue to expect a tax rate of around 30%.
The BMW Group posted a very strong first quarter, despite high-cost pressure from future-
oriented products. Group earnings before tax increased significantly to €2.17 billion. This increase
resulted from the positive development in our operating business, solid earnings of our Chinese
joint venture, and negative valuation effect in the previous year in the other financial result.
Despite high upfront investments, the EBIT margin for the first quarter was slightly above last
year's level at 8.4%. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to be at the forefront of future
developments, we need to invest today. At €4.69 billion, group capital expenditure for 2017 was
almost €1 billion higher than the previous year. We are investing heavily in our production network
and our development locations worldwide.
Flexible architectures and the integration of electrified vehicles into our existing production
network will enable us to respond quickly to changes in customer demand. The CapEx ratio for
2017 increased to 4.8%, reflecting the high upfront investments. In 2018, we will continue to make
major investments to secure our future competitiveness. We are, therefore, assuming a CapEx
ratio of up to 5% for this year.
Research and development expenditure also rose significantly in 2017 to €6.11 billion. This is
almost €1 billion higher than the previous year. We will continue to focus our efforts on further
development of our electric drivetrains and autonomous driving.The R&D ratio for 2017 rose to 6.2%, and as previously announced, was therefore above our
target range of 5% to 5.5%. Due to the high upfront investments, we expect the ratio for 2018 to
be between 6.5% and 7%. In the following two years, it is likely to remain above our target range,
but lower than in 2018.
Ladies and gentlemen, our shareholders will benefit from our strong results in 2017. The board of
management and supervisory board will propose a dividend of €4 per share of common stock
and €4.02 per share of preferred stock for 2017. This will be the highest dividend the BMW Group
has ever paid in its history, with a total dividend payout of €2.63 billion. As a result, 30.2% of our
net profit for the year will be paid out to the shareholders.
Ladies and gentlemen, let's now turn to the individual segments, starting with the Automotive
segment. Our core business continued on its successful course in 2017. The segment EBIT
reflects our operating strength. In 2017, EBIT for the segment reached a new all-time high of
more than €7.86 billion. The EBIT margin of 8.9% remained on par with last year and within our
target range as planned.
Unlike other manufacturers, our margin encompasses only a portion of our very profitable
operating business in China in the operating income, which you can see the main effects that
contributed to the positive EBIT development for the year.
Volume and mix effects, including the launch of the new 5 Series, had a positive impact. Other
operating income and expenses reduced earnings by €373 million. This item mainly covers
additions to provisions for legal disputes and other litigation risks, which are not related to cartel
allegations. Our forward-looking hedging strategy for currencies and commodities is paying off.
As expected, these effects produced a tailwind in the low three-digit million euro range
compared to 2016.
Other cost changes resulted in a negative effect of minus €370 million, mainly due to the high
research and development costs already referred to and higher personnel costs. Significant
improvements from ongoing efficiency measures are partly compensating this. In this way, we are
able to compensate overall for the high level of spending on future-oriented projects in 2017.
Let us turn to the cash flow statement. Free cash flow in the Automotive segment remained
strong in 2017 at €4.46 billion, despite significantly higher investments. The level of investment will
increase again in 2018. However, due to the positive business outlook, we expect to maintain a
healthy free cash flow of more than €3 billion for the current year.
Ladies and gentlemen, financial strength and flexibility are the hallmarks of the BMW Group.
These are the success factors that enable us to keep independently charting our own course.
The BMW Group's liquidity position remains very solid. At the end of the year, group liquidity
totaled €14.5 billion.
As a result, we are well-prepared for volatility in the financial markets, as well as political and
economic challenges. We continue to have the second highest rating of any car company
worldwide. Let's take a look at the Financial Services segment, which performed well in a highly
competitive environment in 2017.
New leasing business, which declined slightly accounts for about a third of our total new Financial
Services business. The penetration rate of 46.8% was lower than the previous year, largely due to
regulatory limits on financing volumes in China. Pre-tax earnings posted a slight year-on-year
increase to €2.21 billion, partly as a result of higher business volumes.The risk situation for the entire segment portfolio remained stable overall in 2017. The net credit
loss ratio of 0.34% is still very low. Residual value losses increased last year as expected. This also
reflects the situation in the used car market in North America and parts of Europe. As usual, we
adjusted our residual value expectations accordingly. These residual value risks are, therefore,
fully-covered through our risk provisions.
Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the Motorcycles segment, which performed very well in
2017. The large number of new models boosted growth. The EBIT margin of 9.1% was within our
target range of 8% to 10%. Pre-tax segment earnings climbed 10.8% compared to the previous
year. Intersegment eliminations reduced group profit by €528 million. This improvement over the
previous year is partly due to the lower volume of new leasing business in 2017.
Ladies and gentlemen, in 2018, we expect the positive business development to continue in all
segments. The introduction of the new IFRS 15 accounting standard, which is valid from January 1,
2018, will require a slight adjustment of the comparative figures for the previous year for a
number of our KPIs. Our outlook for 2018 is, therefore, based on the adjusted figures for 2017.
In 2018, we will set the cost of continued growth. Despite substantial upfront investments in
future technologies and high positive valuation effects in 2017, we are targeting group earnings
before tax at least on par with the high level of the previous year.
In the Automotive segment, we expect to achieve new all-time highs in 2018. As long as
conditions remain stable, we should see a slight increase in deliveries from growth in China and
the U.S. in particular. Automotive segment revenues should also increase slightly in line with sales
volume development. Despite strong headwinds, we remain committed to keep the EBIT margin
within our target range of 8% to 10% in the Automotive segment. This shows that we can
combine a clear focus on the future while having a high level of profitability.
In the Motorcycles segment, thanks to its recently updated model lineup, we anticipate a solid
increase in deliveries in 2018. Here, we also continue to target an EBIT margin of between 8%
and 10%. We expect another strong performance from the Financial Services segment this year.
With growing capital requirements worldwide, return on equity is likely to decrease slightly in
2018. Due to regulatory requirements, we must continue to expand our equity base over the next
few years. We will, therefore, be targeting to return on equity of at least 14% going forward. Our
guidance assumes that economic and political conditions will not deteriorate significantly.
Ladies and gentlemen, the figures for 2017 confirm once again he BMW Group has a right
foundation, achieving the high level of profitability for eight years in a row is no coincidence. It is a
result of a strict orientation towards performance and a clear strategic focus. We are investing our
profits in the future and sending a clear message to our customers.
Our sustained high margins, financial strength, and consistency are also a signal for our current
and future investors. The BMW Group continues to follow its own path, focused, determined, and
with a clear strategy. Thank you.
`Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much, Nicolas. We start our Q&A session with `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI UK Ltd.
Q&A
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI UK Ltd `Thank you very much. I've got two questions over here. `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI UK Ltd from Evercore. One for
`Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management and one for `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance, please. `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management, you're in charge of one of the
most over-capitalized businesses, thanks to really a fantastic performance over the last eight
years as Nicolas just mentioned. So strategically, for the next five, six, seven years, what
opportunities does that create? And should we look at BMW as a business that will grow
organically in the regions? Or shouldn't you consider some M&A whether it's in technology areas,
competitors to use that strength to build out the company even further?
And the second question for `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance, please. On free cash flow, €5.8 billion about a year
ago, €4.5 billion now, €100 billion revenues, more than €14 billion EBITDA. You're sticking to your
more than €3 billion free cash flow target. When you look out 2019/2020, is more than €3 billion
really what we should be expecting given the challenges? Is that an expression of caution of the
headwinds that you're expecting? Or shouldn't you be more confident to target a range closer to
€4 billion to €5 billion, given your product rollout and the performance that you're expecting?
Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
So, we start with Harald and then Nicolas.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Okay. Thank you. First of all, I think there are two sides. The one is we would definitely on the one
side would like to grow organically. And we would like to have the financial performance that we
can do everything on our own as a strategic path, in general. But there's two or three things
where there might be opportunities in the future for M&As, take one which we did like
Parkmobile, like LLCs or in the mobility services areas or others.
Secondly, we also will work with corporations – strategic corporations like in China, it was Great
Wall where you can't do your business on your own. You have a partner, you have a joint venture.
So strategically, with the NUMBER ONE > NEXT, we will grow organically. We see good
opportunities in expanding the export product portfolio and working in other segments as well,
doing more on the luxury side, and to have this as financial performance that we can do
everything if we wish on our own.
Secondly, strategically, more corporations in the future, because we need to be fast. And then
sometimes, you need to have the economies of scale, or the regional footprint is important if you
have a partner. And thirdly, if there are something like Parkmobile, for example, opportunities
might come in the future, we will tackle them.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
And regarding your question related to free cash flow, two or three comments. Number one, I
definitely think that the free cash flow in 2017 was a very strong achievement. We've guided €3
billion and we've ended up at €4.5 billion despite an additional investment of more than €1 billion
in 2017.
Secondly, if we look forward into the next year, particularly, into 2018, I think the guidance of €3
billion is exactly the right one. Why? Because on one hand side, we are very optimistic that we will
generate cash, thanks to our very positive business development starting to the – you've
probably seen the sales number was definitely on track – we are on track to achieve our 2018
targets. We are coming with many new, very profitable models into the markets.On the other hand side, we have to continue our investment level also in the years moving
forward and maybe a third reflection, if we compare our free cash flow to free cash flow in the
industry, I think it's an outstanding result also from this benchmarking perspective.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you, Nicolas. The next question comes from `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG and then (00:32:55). Patrick,
please.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG `
Yep. Good morning over here. `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG, UBS. Two questions, please. First one, mobility as
a service and thinking a few years ahead with the iNEXT coming in 2021, a vehicle that's Level 3 to
Level 5 capable. Other players have become much more vocal and also more aggressive in
terms of their strategies on mobility services selling the mile rather than the car. As you will be
amongst the early OEMs to have a Level 3 to Level 5 car in the market, can you talk a bit more
how see BMW as a brand or BMW as a group in that world of mobility services because, for
example, your competitor 200 kilometers west of Munich is getting much more vocal about that
business and has a very clear ambitions here.
And my second question is related to the i4. Can you give us an understanding how much of a
meaningful volume, and also CO2 contributor this car is going to be in 2020? I'm asking that
question against the backdrop of competitors of BMW now having a very busy launch pipeline of
dedicated BEV models over the next 18 months. Your North America chief saying he would like to
have that car ASAP rather than in 2020. And the X3, you said it in your speech, is going to be a
China-produced vehicle. So it sounds like that's not going to come in big volumes to Europe or
North America. Is this really a car that will have significant volume from the very beginning?
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Harald?
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
All right. Okay. I'll start with the i4. With the i4, I think we will attack in a segment, which definitely
has opportunities for volume growth, which is in the K-car (00:34:51) plus segment, so, 3, 4 Series
segment, i4. That is a huge segment worldwide. So I believe they have good chances. But from
the experience we have definitely, product offer on (00:35:01) this car will have a range between
550 and 700 kilometers. It will be very fast. It's very dynamic. It's what I would call a blown-away
car.
Why is it not too easy to judge what volume we would expect because for e-mobility, and that's
why we're pushing it, you need, first of all, charging infrastructure. That is not in every country
perfect. You will find that in big cities like Amsterdam, like Norway, like Los Angeles. There is a
good network, but in some countries of Europe, it's difficult. So that's why – I'll come back to the
flexibility strategy in a moment – but that's why I see good volume chances, but it's depending
also on infrastructure and the offer (00:35:42), that will be attractive product, it will have a
reasonable price, and it will be definitely in a segment which has potential for growth, definitely.
And C02 contribution, let's put it that way, we stated yesterday clearly that BMW was the only
one company which met the voluntary target in 2008. We have reduced our CO2 emission fleets
this last year by 2 gram, from 124 to 122, because we are successful on electrification. We sold
100,000 vehicles last year. And other competitors have increased their CO2 emission average.So we will further continue with the electrification, and it's just the MINI electric. It will be the iX3. It
will be more products to come. There will be out of the 25, 12 pure electric vehicles in the next
years to come. So we will ramp up significantly. And definitely, we need to be in segments where
there's big volume opportunities. That's the first question.
The other one was on mobility as a service, clearly a strategic target, thinking ahead with iNEXT,
Level 3 to Level 5. First of all, for us, safety comes first. And we believe the technology is not
ready before 2021, because you need perfect radar systems, sensor systems and whatever, and
we are `always, the Annual Report is also on line. cautious about that safety comes first. That's why we prepare for Level 3. We will
have a test with Level 4 and 5, and you need to be careful going step-by-step forward.
And mobility services as part of the brand, take an example with the mobility services in Norway,
for example, or in other cities like Hamburg, we are pushing e-mobility with the i3s and the
DriveNow program. So mobility service is also for us an opportunity so that customers get into an
electric car. And it's a strategic opportunity to learn and get more customers, like digital parking,
like digital charging. We have the clear target that we want to have 100 million customers data,
well-known individually by the year 2025, and then you need to push mobility services.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG `
And if I can just follow up, do you think that you can grow into that business organically
predominantly, or will you – because others have already built a portfolio, do you think it's still
enough time to grow that business yourself or will you rely on partners?
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
I think quite simple, as I said yesterday, we bought DriveNow, we have Parkmobile, and we have
all jokers in our hands. And let's see.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Patrick, maybe one comment regarding the U.S. market. Of course, the market `always, the Annual Report is also on line. loves to
have the new products immediately. Having said this, the American market, the U.S. market, will
have a plenty great models to sell in 2018 and 2019 as the market is trending clearly towards
SUVs, SAVs, and we are launching after the X3, the X2, the X4, the X5, the X7. So I'm pretty
optimistic that that will show good results in the months to come.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Yeah. And to add to this one, there's also cities in America, which loves the MINI Electric. In a city
like Boston, we see good potential for MINI Electric as one example and there are other cities.
MINI is perfect as an urban brand for electrification.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
So next is Martin (00:39:30) and then `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG. Martin? (00:39:33) Where is Martin Siquo
(00:39:37) He's not here? No. Okay. Then we take `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
Tim from Deutsche Bank. Two questions please. The first one is on CO2 and the electric cars
also, a bit into Patrick's direction. VW has now given us a BEV target for 2020 that they require in
order to meet their CO2 targets. Are you happy to share with us at least a number for your
electrified vehicles, as you call them, so PHEVs and BEVs, that you require in order to meet thetargets? And following on to that, you're not going to give us the profitability, obviously, of these
vehicles. But you are now in a number of generations already. Is it fair to assume that they are at
least no longer as margin dilutive as they were at the beginning?
And as a second question, probably to Nicolas. A lot of people are saying that your margin
corridor may be at risk eventually in the next two or three years with the electric cars being
margin dilutive somewhat and the additional cost coming up to stream. You've done a very
impressive job at keeping the target corridor, despite high R&D. Can you give us a couple of
examples how you are taking out costs and where you think you can still take out costs in the next
two years? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Okay. We'll start with Harald and then Nicolas. Harald?
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
I'll start with a question about the CO2 target 2021. To achieve this, you need definitely a mixture
of combustion engines, petrol and diesels, plug-in hybrids and battery electric vehicles. Without
electrification or without diesel engines, no chance to meet it. And we will see all three for the
2021 target.
Our internal target for 2021, I will not communicate here, but let's give you an idea on what will
happen. We had a target of 100,000 electrified vehicles last year. This year, we have a target of
above 140,000 units this year. I communicated that by the end of 2019, we would like to have 0.5
million cars on the road in total as a sum. And if you do some mathematics, you can calculate
what this means.
And then, you can see the further ramp-up with additional battery electric cars. Why is it difficult?
Because we will meet the target, because we anyway have the combination of that one, but we
will ramp up with the MINI. How many MINI Electric we will sell in 2020? How many BMW iX3s will
we sell in 2020? That's a little bit difficult to forecast. But we are clear on the way that we will
achieve the target.
And the second question was on the cost side on the margin side for the EVs?
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
Yeah.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Yeah. And for sure, at the beginning, the costs for the electrification are much higher, but we are
now coming to the fifth generation from Generation 3 to 4, the i8 Coupé and the i8 Roadster will
already have the fourth generation in place then the iX3 will have the fifth generation. So it's from
generation to generation, we have reduced costs. And on the other side, we will see economies
of scale.
And the third one where we are working very hard, we have a lot of depth of in-house production
and knowledge. We had opened up and will open up, for €200 million, a battery center. So we
have a lot knowledge on the R&D side about batteries and cells. We have a lot now on the
production side.We're doing this one and we have a higher depth of in-house production and knowledge
compared to our competitors. They have outsourced many of those things. We're doing it
internally to control the costs of the new technology. Because if it ramps up, you must be number
one on the cost side to deliver your margins, that's why we put a lot of efforts into to control it
and be very cost-sensitive and getting the knowledge. And we have very good examples from
Generation 4 to Generation 5 how we reduced costs, for example, for expensive materials.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
And, Tim, few reflections on the margin corridor (00:43:40). Of course, BMW Group is a very
ambitious company. We are an ambitious organization and we are setting ourselves ambitious
targets. Is 8% to 10% a walk in the park? Definitely not. Are we optimistic that we are going to
achieve those 8% to 10%? Yes, for a couple of reasons. Two headlines on one hand side, focus
and on, the other hand side, performance.
A few examples. Big data, for example, will help us to drive contribution per unit on an even
higher level. We are increasing the mix in our portfolio on the model launches coming up.
Efficiency, reduction of complexity is something we are doing in a system, really systematic way,
where you have the same number of combustion engines. And the difference here is, as we have
today, most likely not, most likely not. And this will give us some room to maneuver into those
new technologies and to balance the 8% to 10% margin.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you, Nicolas. The next question comes from Josh Cheng (00:44:59) and then José
Asumendi . Josh (00:45:01)?
Yes. Good morning. Two questions. First of all, on China, if we look at the Chinese EV market for
the time being, it's mainly – well, it's a big market, but it's mainly made of cheap, affordable EVs
made by local producers. Just wondering what's your thinking behind the premium EV markets? Is
there real business case for that market? And how will you address the tough issue of NEV credit
quotas coming in 2019? That's the first question.
Second question on Financial Services. Dr. `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance, you mentioned the new long-term target
of 14% ROE. Is this just a reflection of higher regulatory constraints regarding the equity base? Or
have you factored in other factors such as residual value risk in that one? And if this is related to
equity base, how much additional cash injection are you planning for either this year or coming
years? Thank you.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
To answer your first question on China. First of all, as you can see and I would like to line on the
bigger picture. We will have in the future two joint ventures. One for the brand BMW where we
will localize electric vehicles, and one for the MINI brand for electric MINIs. So with these two joint
ventures in the future, we are able to offer the Chinese customers in all segments. If it's small
urban cars or big cars, electrification.
And we will, with this strategy, meet also definitely then the EV quota in terms of what is required.
By today, we already have the X1 plug-in hybrid, the 5 Series – new 5 Series, long-wheelbase
plug-in hybrids in the market. And let's see in Beijing Motor Show, we will show some more.
And we have already a local partner called CATL for cell production in China, which is required as
well and we opened up in our Shenyang operation in our Shenyang plant battery manufacturingcenter. That's the first OEM in the premium segment. So we are well-prepared for the localization
of electrified vehicles in China.
And if you see, with MINI has a growth for potential, now being localized as an electric vehicle in
China, there's a growth opportunity definitely together, also on the BMW side with our great
partner Brilliance.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Josh, (00:47:39) regarding the 14% ROE target for the Financial Services business, that's a pure
reflection of regulatory changes. Just to give you one example. We have increased equity
between – in our Financial Services business between end of 2016 and end of 2017 from 8% to
10.7%, so this is already a significant increase in 2017. This will continue. We have injected in the
last couple of months in our Chinese Financial Services company between €300 million and €400
million. We have to invest – inject in some other companies due to regulatory changes significant
amounts of money. So this is purely driven by regulatory changes.
Q - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Sorry. Just a follow-up on that one, if we – I mean, you moved from 18% to 4% – to 14% ROE. The
implied additional equity, what does it mean in terms of what you will have to inject this year or
next? Should we assume something like €800 million to €1 billion additional cash being injected in
the Financial Services bids in China or elsewhere?
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Well, this is difficult to name – to phrase one amount for 2018, 2019 and so on because we see
this developing step-by-step in the different markets. But our forecast is that from a profit level,
the Financial Service business will continue to develop as planned. And this is purely driven by
regulatory changes in the various markets.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you. Next is José Asumendi and then `Adam Hull, Analyst, MainFirst Bank AG (UK). José?
Q - `José M. Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
Thank you. José, JPMorgan. Two items, Nicolas.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Right here. Front row.
Q - `José M. Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
Can you speak a little bit about the other cost changes, the incremental headwinds you have in
that category, the incremental cost savings that you're booking in that category a little bit. I guess,
the R&D element, the higher wage expenses you're placing there, but also the – I think
encouraging cost savings that you book in there every year, any thoughts of how this category
could progress in 2018?
And second question for Harald. When I look at your own premium competitors, I'm struggling a
little bit to understand why are they launching a medium-sized electric SUV in the next 6 to 12
months at a very rich entry price points, I think. And I'm trying to understand why you're notwhere would you expect to launch this vehicle to the market. Because I think it's a vehicle that will
be very successful and will allow you also to cover the incremental cost of the battery and the
content you need to put into that car. So I'm just to understand a little bit your strategy versus the
others.
And then the second topic would be 2020, 2021 meeting the emission targets in Europe. What
are your thoughts in terms of the mix on diesel? (00:51:25) going across all the range. And do you
need to have like, let's say, more than 10% of fuel EVs in your portfolio.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thanks, José. We'll start with Nicolas (00:51:40)
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Let's start with the other cost changes and you're absolutely right. They are mainly driven by
research and development. A couple of hundred million euros and HR costs, because we had and
likely to increase our head count. And we had some wage increase in particular in Germany from
April 1, 2017 in the magnitude of 2%. This was offset, and this was compensated by efficiency and
cost reduction, mainly to give you some more ideas in which direction we are moving forward.
One example is – for example that we are aiming to reduce the development period of a
product in a significant way. This is also supported by digitalization, AI technology. So this will give
us the opportunity to reduce the time that we need to develop a car, an engine, new
technologies in a significant way.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
True then. The answer is quite simple, coming from two sides. We wanted to wait for the fifth
generation to be much more cost competitive. The jump from the fourth to the fifth generation
and the fifth generation is available first in 2020, of electric drivetrains.
And this relates to what Patrick and Tim asked in terms of as we do a major step in cost
advantages from fourth to fifth, and we want – like to scale up the volume with the fifth
generation and not the fourth. That's the main reason for 2020.
The second one is we were developing compared to other companies – and I see this one as a
strategic advantage, to be crystal clear. What do the others – if it's not ramping up like hell, and
what do the others, they have factories in the world with maybe 50% capacity usage. We are fully
flexible, more than 100% capacity usage. (00:53:51) 50% of this car, 20%, 40%, or 60%. I can
build on one assembly line, the petrol, the diesel, the plug-in hybrid, and the battery electric
vehicle.
And for the transition time being, it's my way, my personal view, the best assumption and the
best strategy. Then who in the room could guess how many electric vehicles we will sell i4 in
Romania in the year 2023? How many we will sell in Russia? How many will I sell in Paris? We don't
know. And who else says, I've got the answer, is probably not honest. But if you have a strategy,
which is based on flexibility, I can ramp up with very cost competitive product, if it's 50%, or 30%
or 20%. Target for 2025 is 20% to 25% battery electric vehicles, electrified.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
And maybe commenting further on the CO2 targets, José, exactly based on what Harald just
said, I believe we are in a very strong position to achieve our targets in Europe. Who else has thisinvest in diesel technology, and we have more or less next to every single diesel, a petrol variant
where customers really have the choice between all four alternatives.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
And let's see what the margins are when it comes to the race.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Well, it was a clear statement from our Chairman. We can close our session today. No. It was a
joke. It was a joke. Yes. Yes. Next one is Professor `Adam Hull, Analyst, MainFirst Bank AG (UK). Is it right, Professor? No? Okay. Go
ahead.
Q - `Adam Hull, Analyst, MainFirst Bank AG (UK) `
`Adam Hull, Analyst, MainFirst Bank AG (UK) from MainFirst. I have three questions. And on the Chinese JV cash dividend, I think you
received €258 million last year, doubling or near doubling on the previous year. Just help us a little
bit. I'm presuming that's for fiscal 2016. And is there any reason why the dividend payout ratio
from China should, say, fall in the coming two, three years. I know you may not give us exact
numbers there, but just to give a feel in term of the investments.
Secondly, on cash flow, going back, if you delivered, say, €3,000,000,001 cash flow (00:56:25)
would you be happy this year. And just confirm to us, there's no dividends coming in from the
Financial Services, not that Automotive cash flow.
And then finally, on the dividend, you've got a pretty high net cash position. You're telling us that,
particularly R&D ratio will fall in 2019 and 2020. What's stopping you from having a dividend
payout ratio, say, in the upper 30s or so, you feel that confident in the midterm margins and in
terms of the R&D ratio coming down? Thanks.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
So, Adam a couple of questions First of all, dividend payout of our joint venture moving forward,
very likely to increase slightly in 2018, but we still have enough cash – definitely enough cash in our
Chinese joint venture in order to finance further investments in China.
Free cash flow target is €3 billion for 2018, but as I said, we are optimistic that with a good
product and momentum, good sales outlook start into the year was very supportive on one hand
side. On the other hand side, we might have to digest even – as I said, we have to digest higher
investments. We have to digest additional costs going up in our R&D ratio to 7%. So I think this is
the right guidance at this point in time. And payout ratio is definitely we stick to our 30% to 40%.
We are at 30.4% for the year 2017, but this has, of course, to do with a very significant tax effect
coming from the U.S. tax reform. And let's see, for the years to come, but the target – the aim is
clearly between 30% and 40%.
Okay. The next question comes from `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG and then Stefan Burgstaller. Horst, please?
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
Yeah. Thanks for taking my questions. Two please. First of all, related to the WLTP changes. We
read in the press that you will not deliver the M3 for roundabout one-and-a-half years, also other
vehicles were mentioned. I've lost a little bit overview. Could you please give us an overview of
which cars you're going to stop producing or selling in Europe temporarily and what is the
financial impact?Then the second question, as we discussed at the moment, a lot of potential (00:59:24) from
the U.S. but we don't discuss potential impact from the Brexit, which might happen in a year's
time. And especially since you've got the production is in the UK, you could be affected the most.
Could you maybe give us an update on what is your contingency planning on Brexit?
You said already you're committed to the production there. But, nevertheless, I would be
interested in more details.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Yeah. Yeah. We'll start with Brexit and the Chairman.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
First of all, if you look at the Brexit discussion, we see in latest agreement was there's an
amendment under the end of the year 2020, in a period where there will be a transition. Having a
manufacturing location in the UK can be an advantage. If you look at this one, if there will be
customs or other things, which I don't hope for, having a local production could be of help.
If you just have imported cars and there will be tariffs and customs, it could be more expensive
for you. If you look at the currency currently in manufacturing in the UK is less expensive than
before due to the weakness of the pound.
What it means for us, the UK is definitely the fourth biggest market in the world, still and will
remain in the future. So I do hope definitely that in Brussels there and in London, there is
pragmatism on both sides. If it will be a hot Brexit, it will be a lose-lose on both sides.
So with the transition agreement, you can see that there is a certain pragmatism coming on to
the table. But I do hope definitely that there is something coming afterwards as well. Otherwise
business is – and I'm very clear about this one, business is relying on free trade. And this creates
wealth and win-win. And if we see something, which is not pragmatic after the transition period,
we will see impacts on the business. But so far, I'm still optimistic. And having a manufacturing
location in the UK must not be a disadvantage. Don't underestimate that.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
So impact of VLTP (sic) [WLTP] (01:01:34). Number one, we haven't planned interruption on certain
model variants. This is by the way a challenge for the whole industry, because this VLTP(sic)
[WLTP] (01:01:46) changes came in pretty late. And therefore, we have some supplier issues.
Having said this, there's a strategy in place to minimize the impact of those VLTP(sic) [WLTP]
(01:02:02) changes and we do not forecast. We do not forecast any negative impact on our sales,
nor on our profit. On our financial results, we will relocate models between various markets and
shift between engines. And maybe just to add on one thing, the M3 is a different topic, because
M3 is anyhow in run-out phase. And there will be a new model on the market.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Let me put it that way...
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
So we should be then expect some seasonality on free cash flow maybe? I don't know that you
increase inventory on those models, which you don't plan to produce...A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
No. No. No.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
(01:02:47) Europe? No? Because we...
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
No. No. No.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
When we made our budget, this is nothing which happened surprisingly in our planning. So this
was integrated in our planning.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
To add one more, it looks like that we are at the forefront going through. And it's `always, the Annual Report is also on line. better
to be in the number one position going through that than waiting for number two or three. And
let's see what happens in the second half of 2018 and beginning of 2019.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you, gentlemen. Next is Stefan Burgstaller and then `Michael Tyndall, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd.. Stefan?
Q - `Stefan A. Burgstaller, Analyst, Goldman Sachs International `
Yeah. Thank you for taking my questions. Stefan Burgstaller from Goldman Sachs. I would like to
ask or share if you might have strategic concerns for the group. I'm interested in how you'd
respond. So you're talking about being number one, the second best credit rating, financially well-
capitalized, life is good. And you're dealing with these challenges well. We're seeing the cars,
we're seeing the responses on autonomous driving. You talk about mobility services. So if I take it
back to first principles and think about the next decade, I see rather pedestrian growth in the end
markets.
When I look at your product portfolio, sliced and diced, you've been excellent at this. But it seems
that you've positioned yourself well to extract the growth, which the product portfolio can give
you. Maybe there's a mix uplift. But still, when I look forward the electrification, we don't know
when it comes. But when it comes, it's likely coming top-down from the premium segment into
the volume segment. So there is a substitution for it, barely for you as well.
And then when we talk about mobility services, I really struggle to form a sentence, which kind of
is credible to me, it says, BMW ultimate driving machine and autonomous driving. So my point is,
the growth potential for the group over the next decade could be constrained. At the same time,
you have to substantially step up the investment. As you've shown and as you're predicting the
future, the result is falling returns. And that's what the share price is dealing within the moment. Is
this not the time to be really bold and think how you can grow the portfolio, the brand portfolio,
to leverage the investments you've made, which comes back to Arndt's questions at the
beginning of the session.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of ManagementWe will split the answer. First of all, if I look at our strategy and if I look into the business, there's
definitely further growth opportunity. If you look at China by today and how many people are
having a premium car and how the society is growing and what is in the interest – or even if you
look at the U.S. markets, there is definitely more opportunity for premium growth in the premium
segment.
If you look back to what happened in the last years, maybe last 10 years as one example,
premium segment was `always, the Annual Report is also on line. outperforming the mass segment. Last year, for example, 1.5% in
the mass segment, much more than 5% in the premium segment. So premium is still growing
across the globe, which gives opportunities for our business. If you think about last year, we had
in China, as one example, 15% growth on BMW. We are localizing now X3 in China as one
example. There's more opportunities with the localized product. So premium is still growing.
Secondly, we will see from the experience we have with our data in DriveNow and mobility
service, we see more kilometers being driven and less – more cars on the road. So we will see
chances there. If you are not in that business, for sure, in mobility services, you might be
subsidized, you might go down on your volume and sales. But you're in the business, there's
more chances definitely. Second part.
The third one is I totally believe in electrification. It will come. And autonomous driving as well, but
there's one philosophy, at BMW, the driver will decide. And even if you just drive 50% or 60%,
70% autonomous, there might be the perfect road, like a sunny day like today, where you just
enjoy driving by yourself. And we are in the premium segment in selling emotions. We are not
selling just go from A to B. if you just want to go from A to B, it might be different.
But so far, we see from the data we have around about six to seven years with mobility services,
we have chances for growth. And there are still cities – and especially growing with electrification.
And definitely the premium segment is still growing across the globe. We will hit maybe 10 million
premium cars in the near time.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Stefan, I think we agree that the premium segment will grow. We agree that there will be a higher
share of EVs on the market. We agree that X models, or SUVs, SAVs, will continue to grow around
the globe. If you take all those megatrends, the BMW Group is not only today, 2017, in the
number one position, but also in the best position to tackle exactly those challenges.
If you look at the EV portfolio, let's see who will be at what time in the right market capable to sell
to market products. We have been the leader in EV mobility in 2017, start into 2018 was very
convincing. So we are well on track in the premium segment. We have 12 full EVs scheduled by
2025. Plug-in hybrids are on top because plug-in hybrids will continue to play an important role in
many areas of the world market.
And furthermore, we are capable. We depend not on cheap money, we depend not on cheap
money. We are capable, thanks to our financial strength, to fund all the necessary investments in
R&D, in our global footprint from our own results. This is making us in a certain way more
independent than any other. So this is why we are optimistic moving forward.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
And Stefan, two more amendments. Why are other companies in China or in the U.S. moving into
the automotive industry if it would be having no good future? First one. And second one,electrification, and we both agree on this one, is pure emotions. Four seconds from 0 to 100
kilometers. This is highly emotional.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
So next question `Michael Tyndall, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. and then `Christian Ludwig, Analyst, Bankhaus Lampe KG.
Q - `Michael Tyndall, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Hi, there. It's Mike Tyndall from Citi. Just a couple if I may. The first for Nicolas, in regards to – if I
look at cost of materials, it looks like cost of materials, as a percentage of sales went down by a
meaningful amount in 2017, roughly 170 basis points, which seems at odds with what's going on
with raw materials and content level. So I'm wondering if that's hedging or is there a program
there where you are effectively dragging savings out that we might see ongoing.
And then, the second question for `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management. We spoke a little earlier outside about the
political landscape, and if it's diesel bans or it's tariffs or it's NAFTA or Brexit, it certainly feels like
the volatility, the we don't knows, is going up. How does that manifest itself in your planning? Do
you just plot a course and keep going, or do you have to introduce a level of conservatism
because what the future holds is becoming increasingly uncertain? Thanks.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Michael, very good question. First of all, I fully agree that the volatility will remain and will continue
in the future. And it is even getting bigger than less. What do we do? First of all, we are working
with a lot of scenarios. There is not the one long-term strategic planning. And this time you need
to have a base, but you need to work with different scenarios, what will happen and what do you
do in the company when this or this happens. And we are clear on one thing. BMW – I stated it
before sometimes – we have a set of KPIs where we would like to be number one. And one of
these criteria is flexibility, because flexibility is the best answer to volatility.
If the battery electric vehicles ramp up like hell, flexibility helps, if they are struggling a little bit, it
helps as well. So if a market in China or in the U.S. ramps up quickly, or this model is ramping up
quickly, flexibility is a very good answer. So flexibility, lean cost structures, fast decision-making,
and scenario planning and a well-globalized company which having footprints in every part of the
world nearly, in terms of global production network and global distribution network balances then
the chances and the risk in the overall system. You might not have every chance, but you may not
have been hit by severe risk if you have that globalized balance worldwide sales and production
network. And these are the answers.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
And, Michael, regarding cost of material, you're absolutely right. We saw a slight decrease, if you
calculate by car of our material costs. And on one hand side, of course, we have a very consistent
approach in our purchasing department. That's one element. But on the other hand side, this was
supported by some FX effects as well.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
So, next is `Christian Ludwig, Analyst, Bankhaus Lampe KG and then `Mike Dean, Analyst,  Intelligence. Christian?
Q - `Christian Ludwig, Analyst, Bankhaus Lampe KG `Yeah. Over here. Two questions. First, a follow-up on WLTP. This year, you have to recertify
essentially (01:13:52) all your cars in Europe, at least for WLTP and RDE. Could you give us an
indication how much incremental cost that will mean for BMW this year? And the second question,
a little bit more long term. On your R&D guidance, you said the ratio will come down in 2019 and
2020, does it also mean that the absolute figure will come down? And how sure are you that by
2021 you will actually be back to your initial target range of below 5.5%? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Nicolas, right question for you.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Let's start with the R&D. Our guidance is that the R&D ratio will go down from 2019 onwards,
because we will continue to invest, of course, into new product and new technologies. It will not
be in the corridor of 5% to 5.5% in 2019 and 2020, but will go down compared to the 2018 level.
The WLTP effect is already calculated in our guidance. So we do not expect an additional negative
impact on our 2018 guidance due to WLTP adjustments.
Q - `Christian Ludwig, Analyst, Bankhaus Lampe KG `
So just to be clear, you would expect that the R&D absolute cost will probably go up in 2019 and
2020.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
We will guide 2019 and 2020 in 2019, in exactly one year from now.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you, Nicolas. Next `Mike Dean, Analyst,  Intelligence and then...
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Feedback will be we'd love to see you again you see.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
So, Mike, please, and then Harald Hendrikse. Mike?
Q - `Mike Dean, Analyst,  Intelligence `
Good morning. `Mike Dean, Analyst,  Intelligence from  Intelligence. A couple of questions on diesel, please.
Firstly, what was your market share of diesel in Europe in 2017, and where do you see this going in
2018 and beyond? Maybe you could comment on pricing as well. And then, just following the
court ruling last month, what are your thoughts on a potential banning of older diesels in
Germany? Thank you.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
So diesel share in Europe in 2017 was exactly 66.5%. And we've seen an inconsistent
development across Europe. We've seen markets in particular Germany and UK, where diesel
share went down. And we had markets like Italy or Spain, where diesel share remained very
stable on a very high level. Italy is still above 90%. And by the way, outside Europe, we have seen
markets where diesel went even up markets like Korea.On the pricing side, we have seen some pressure in particular in Germany and the UK. Having
said this, this is in particular if you look at our leasing portfolio very well under control. And we
have taken the necessary steps. So we do not expect negative impact in 2018.
And, of course, we will most likely see the diesel share slightly going down in Europe in 2018 as
well. But in order to offset this, we have invested some money in our engine production plant in
Steyr in order to increase flexibility between petrol and diesel.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Yeah. And this is again an answer a little bit compared to amend this one. We have decided
already years ago that we build this three, four and six-cylinder petrol and diesel flexible engine
family, because we were seeing that there could be volatility on this one. So with that petrol and
diesel flexibility because we have one engine family, we can swap volumes.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Okay. Next one is Harald Hendrikse and then `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (UK). Harald, you are – there, over
there.
Q - `Harald C. Hendrikse, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Yeah. Guys, thank you so much for taking my question. Mike got in there and with the other one
before me. But let me expand on that a little bit as well. Firstly, on the i4, it looks like a great
product. I'm sure you'll do a great job with that product in the market. But can I maybe ask a
slightly different way around question. If you were the salesman in the dealership and your
American guys are obviously looking forward to getting this car into the dealerships.
You put that car in there, gets incredibly exciting, the public comes in, you got a great response.
How does a salesman then try and sell the current 3 and the 5 Series, which anyway are already
quite difficult in the U.S.? Can you just try and explain to me what is the sales pitch in most
products going to be once you've got these brand-new type products with much lower running
costs in the dealerships?
And then secondly, on diesel, rather a short-term question. I'm confused why the industry is so
incredibly fixated on this CO2 target for 2020. And diesel seems to be the only answer that you
have. Now I fully understand that the target has completely changed from when the target came
in years ago in terms of the consumer buying intentions and stuff.
But it doesn't seem to me that it's the best thing for the customer to continue to sell diesels,
especially, more expensive ones, where the residuals are going to go down and where at some
stage you're losing money on the equity for the consumer. So I was just wondering, why is the
industry so fixated and what do you think is going to happen to diesel once you sell enough
electric vehicles post-2020?
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you. Your first part of your question about the i4 was very good, because Nikola was a
salesman before.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Harald, I'm very optimistic that we will continue in the years to come to sell many combustion
engines next to EVs, why? The change to EV will not materialize in a digital way. So depending oncustomer needs, you will have on one hand side many customers saying, well, I'm opting for the
new technology, for electric-powered cars and you have many other customers taking into
account their personal lifestyle.
We'll say, well, we will continue to need latest technology on diesel or petrol side. And by the
way, if we look at the development of – because you mentioned 3 and 5, of course, 3 Series
(01:21:21) but 5 Series is doing extremely well in the U.S. market. And we were leading the 5 Series
segment since we've launched the new 5 Series in the U.S.
So it's again `always, the Annual Report is also on line. the same part of our strategy, flexibility. We have to be in line with different
customer requests. And we will see. And this will not be only in the U.S., but in many other parts of
the world where people next to an EV, there will be other customers asking for a combustion
engine because they have very long distance to travel and end. So it's not the one, it's the one
and the other.
Second part of your question, 2020 targets. 2020 is an interim target and we definitely will need
a certain level of diesel share in order to achieve the 2020 target. And by the way, as I just
mentioned, despite all the discussions we have, I just gave you the figures for 2017. We have still –
more than in 2017, we still had more than 66% of our customers buying diesel. So this is not a
technology, which now is starting to disappear. In contrary, we will continue next to our EVs, also
invest in diesel and petrol in combustion engine technology.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Okay. Next one is `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (UK) and then I have James Irvine (01:23:19). Stephen, please?
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (UK) `
Yes. Hello. `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (UK), Société Générale in London. A question on sort of about
electrification. And you made the point about the flexibility you built into your planning and your
platform strategy. You also mentioned the big bet is on the fifth generation. You've been waiting
for the technology to evolve. So I was just wondering if you might give us some idea of the
quantum advance that the Generation 5 delivers in terms of battery efficiency and cost over the
previous generations?
And then, also second question maybe on the X3, the electric version of the X3 that you'll be
launching at that point. What do you think is the acceptable price premium you can charge over
an equivalent diesel X3 high-end version of that? Or can you even charge a premium at all?
Thank you.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
I'll start with the second question, the decision on the pricing for the iX3 is not done so far. And
you need to look into the markets and (01:24:21) regions across the globe. What is premium for
electrification, what is the competitive situation, so that is an open question. And that will be
something – where decision in the next year maybe, end of next year.
And the other one is what is the advantage from the fourth to the fifth generation? It's a two-digit
number. And I won't give you in which scale, but it's not 5%. It's something, which we believe is a
major step forward, and we are not stopping that. You see, even in the first generation, we will
have them later on, sometimes the sixth generation. We are on a continuous path.
If you would like to win the race, and electrification is the future. You must be the most costdoing so much intensive research on these things. There's a lot of material (01:25:23) production
and all these things, because you need to understand it in detail to take out the costs.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
And, Stephen, maybe one comment more from an CFO's perspective. Next to better range, next
to higher energy, density, we will have cost reduction on Generation 5, which is very, very
important because, Harald rightly said, the one who will be leading in this technology is the one
who has cost under control.
Number two, you're absolutely right. Let's take away the X3 specific topic, we will have to coach,
we will have to explain to our customers that this technology is not for free. This technology has
an add-on cost against today's combustion engine. And this is something, which we as a
frontrunner take the pricing of the i3. By the way, a very successful car in its segment despite
higher price.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
`So ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We are on time. Welcome to our Analyst and Investor, it's 11:30. I have only two more questions. First is James Irvine
(01:26:45) and then `Tim Schuldt, Analyst, equinet Bank AG, is that right?. Okay. We start with James Irvine (01:26:49).
Thank you. I'll try to be quick. I love the flexible approach you're taking on the powertrain. So I
guess, my question is from a competitive landscape. Of the three German luxury car players, 8%
to 10% margins, it's been pretty good discipline against the backdrop of pretty good global
growth. But I wanted to get your sense of – we had a chance to meet with Audi the other day,
and they're talking about a product margin range that was from 5% to 15% across the portfolio
with the SUVs being above average and the pass cars being below. And I just wondered if you
could help us kind of – how tight your range is as you think about your product portfolio margins?
And it really ties into Harald's question of when you have this powertrain uncertainty coming into
the industry, I'm just curious how disciplined you think the luxury players will be, especially, if the
solutions to meet the regulatory mandates aren't really what consumers want to pay for yet and
might not until 2025 when the cost structures are more competitive?
So simply put, as you move into the SUVs over the next two years, do you see that being a
significant tailwind or, in fact, coming into that segment late, is it basically at risk of coming into a
segment that's coming into margin pressure in terms of the smaller SUV categories? So a couple
of questions in there. I'll take whatever you're willing to share. Thank you.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
First of all, I think as we mentioned in my speech, we see this year as the year of the X year and
BMW has been the frontrunner on this segment. The X5 and we now have already the third
generation of the X5. The X5 was the first product really in the market of sports activity vehicle.
And if you see what happened with the X3 expansion, which we did as the first company and the
competitors were following us two or three years later, we were the first ones with X1. We will be
the first ones with the (01:28:58) Coupé.
So the only one where we – and when we started the X6 on the market, there were some
people saying how do you need this product. But the X6 by itself was selling more than the Q7
worldwide at that time when the car was launched. So you can see the only product where we are
heading now into the segment, we haven't been in is and where we're quite optimistic is the X7.There's a big market also for these cars and our U.S. dealers, our Russian leaders are very, very
positive about it.
So you can see even in the U.S. as one example, but also in China but also in other countries,
there's still a continuous trend into the SUV segments. And as you assume, electrification for the
future that will be also a stable trend for the future. And are we disciplined when it comes to
pricing? I have a clear view on this one. Nicolas and myself are at least manufacturing one product
less before we kill the pricing. So you need to be very rigorous on pricing definitely when you're in
the premium segment.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Pricing is really key. And just to underline what Harald said, we accepted a loss and reduction
segment share in the U.S. in the last two years. And we've reduced in a significant way
inventories. Why? Because we knew that it will come up with on the new X models, which will fit
perfectly to the U.S. market. And this is why now with really very strong, good pricing discipline in
the organization, we will see segment share going up in the aspect on discipline in the sales team
on one-hand side and a great product momentum.
And regarding, let's say, the 8% to 10% margin and which model is contributing in which way to
this 8% to 10% margin in a certain way already gave the answer. Of course, in a model like X5 is
contributing in a different way compared to 1 Series. That's absolutely correct.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
And to amend this one, we are also attacking on this super luxury segment. As I mentioned in my
speech before, we are having a model offensive especially like the 8 Series Coupé, the 8 Series
Convertible, the 8 Series Gran Coupé, the X7, the Cullinan. We are going into the higher premium
segment as well with much more models than in the past.
Q - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
I guess, to be specific, though, I understand the SUV opportunity. I guess, I'm curious how did the
industry and how did BMW manage the pressures in passenger car. If you tell me your margins
range from 7% to 10%, and pass cars are actually doing outstanding margins and you've
managed this faith in the segment, that's fantastic industry discipline and you've managed it well.
But that fades in pass cars and the moving SUV, that's been years in the making. This issue on
power train is much more dynamic and potentially risky. So I'm just curious, can you give us some
dynamic on the passenger car profitability versus SUV? Is it plus or minus a couple of hundred
basis points or is it 400 basis points or 500 basis points?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
James, not to have a misunderstanding, the passenger cars are extremely profitable in our
portfolio. So let's – we launched last year the new 5 Series. The 5 Series definitely is a profit
champion in our product portfolio. We will launch a new 3 Series. I am very optimistic that this car
will contribute in a significant way, in a significant way to our overall profitability.
Our take in a car like the 4 Series Gran Coupé, which is selling extremely well, extremely well. And
this car is generating far above average contribution margin per car. So passenger cars are still
not only growing in volume worldwide and they are also from a profit perspective, very important
and strongly contributing to our results.A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
One decision on this was, the 8 Series Gran Coupé which we showed in Geneva. It shows that we
believe in those segments and the sedan segments.
Q - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you.
Okay. The last two questions, `Tim Schuldt, Analyst, equinet Bank AG and then Lucas Ankerman (01:34:04). We'll start with
Tim is over there.
Q - `Tim Schuldt, Analyst, equinet Bank AG `
Thank you `Tim Schuldt, Analyst, equinet Bank AG from equinet Bank. I have two questions left. First one is on your R&D ratio.
You're guiding that it's going up to 7% this year. Now, this is not the R&D ratio you see in the P&L.
Is the ratio in the P&L going up by the same magnitude? That would be my first question.
And then, the second question is related to the U.S. and flexibility and the whole topic of tariffs. I
understand that we all don't know what will happen. And you mentioned that flexibility is in any
case key. How flexible would you – you've taken the decision in the past to use the U.S. plant as
an export hub and to produce X models there. How flexible would you be in case that there
would be significant tariffs to change the structure and to bring different models to this plant as
well? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Harald?
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Yeah. We would be quite flexible because we have old products. We have two main architectures
at BMW. The front-wheel drive architecture and the rear-wheel drive architecture. And as long as
you are within that architecture, you can be flexibly manufacturing or assembling other cars as
well. So for example, the 5 Series Sedan is in the architectural structure like the X5. So you would
be flexible in these architectures.
But for the U.S., I mean, we are in the best position, because we have the main for the U.S., the
biggest portion of cars we are selling other light vehicle trucks. So we have the X5, the X6, X3,
the X4 and the X7 in the future in the market. And this is the biggest portion of the market still
growing. So we, compared to other competitors, have already the biggest portion of vehicles in
the U.S. being localized.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Tim, of course, up to 7% is HTB ratio. (01:36:06) If we look at IFRS, the increase will be in the
magnitude of a high three-digit million euro amount. And this will translate into plus/minus 60
basis points.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you, Nicolas. Really, the last two question, Lucas first, and then `Timm Schulze-Melander, Executive Director, JPMorgan Securities Plc.
Yeah, okay. We start with LucasHello. Lucas Ankerman (01:36:35) from (01:36:36) GmbH. My question is a high-end number of
cars are produced in Spartanburg, and a high number of them are going to be exported, I think,
at 70%. As a result of Trump's possibly import tax rate, is it a possible problem for you that there
are counter-action, for example, in China and on American product, for example, also on import
tax? And what would be the impact on Spartanburg?
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
First of all, we have 350,000 vehicles last year, Plant Spartanburg is able to do 450,000 units.
The 70% figure is right. Around about 70% of it is exported to worldwide locations. The main
countries are China and Germany.
The question was on the speculation in terms of China and U.S. trade. We are already in a
different position by this year, because we will ramp up the X3 in China for local production
already in the second quarter of 2018. So we will already have the X1 in China and we will have
the X3 in China quite soon. So that balances our U.S. and China operations.
But the X4, the X6, for example, will remain in the United States only.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
If you look from a global perspective, I really believe the BMW Group has probably the best
footprint of all manufacturers, if you take all those political discussions into account, the biggest
factory is in the U.S. market. We have a strong footprint in the UK, of course, in Europe. And we
have sufficient capacity and we will discuss further capacity developments in China. So we are
really in all three geopolitical areas extremely well-positioned.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you, Nicolas. And now the final question from JPMorgan UK, `Timm Schulze-Melander, Executive Director, JPMorgan Securities Plc.
Please, Timm.
Q - `Timm Schulze-Melander, Executive Director, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
Hi. It's `Timm Schulze-Melander, Executive Director, JPMorgan Securities Plc, the spec sales at JPMorgan. Quite the introduction. Just a very
simple question actually in EVs. And that's just on the end of battery life. Can you share with us
what you think might be the case in terms of OEM responsibility as some of these batteries come
to end of life? And what you've been planning around that? Thank you.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of the Board of Management
Important question. We have a couple of pilots already running in order to set with those end-of-
life battery farms, which we operate with other electric power supplier companies. We have one
example in our plant in Leipzig, which we've recently inaugurated a couple of months ago. And
this is a concept we are going to develop further.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
So I have a strict order from my boss. Thank you very much for the excellent questions. So before
we go to lunch, I would like to say a few words more. This is the last Analyst and Investor
Conference for my friend, Norbert. For 12 years, he was the interface between...
[Abrupt End]