Q4 2018 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Dear colleagues. Good morning. And a cordial welcome to the Annual Accounts Press
Conference of BMW AG. I'm delighted to have the opportunity to welcome you all here at the
BMW Welt, also on behalf of the Board of Management.
Today, colleagues from 18 countries have followed our invitation. And I would also like to welcome
all the spectators following our conference live on the Internet, where it will be also available on-
demand later on. The press conference will be simultaneously interpreted for you. And you can
see the channels up here.
So dear colleagues, today, we'll be reporting on the past financial year. And of course, we will
also give you an outlook on to the year 2019 and beyond. The financial report, yearbook and the
sustainability fact book are available for you in the -- when it comes to the financial statements,
we have taken a new path. The online version is accompanied by an audio vision -- version. And
you can also look into our social media channels, where you can find all the facts and figures of
the previous fiscal year. The sustainability report 2018 can also be found for download online.
So dear colleagues, here onstage as usual, you have all the members of the BMW Group. On my
left, I would like to start with `Harald Krüger, Chairman of Management Board & CEO, the Chairman of the Board of Management. Next to
him, Klaus Fröhlich, responsible for development. Then we have Pieter Nota, he is Head of the
division, Sales and Brand BMW. And one board member, who's here for the first time at an annual
accounts press conference, welcome to Dr. Andreas Wendt. He is Head of the division,
Purchasing and Supplier Network. He is on my very left. To my right, we have Dr. `Nicolas Peter, CFO & Member of Management Board, our
CFO. Next to him is Caiña Andree. She is responsible for Human Resources and our Labor
Director. Next to her, `Oliver Zipse, Head of Production & Member of Management Board, charged with production. And to the very right, PeterSchwarzenbauer, responsible for MINI, Rolls-Royce, BMW Motorrad, Customer Engagement and
Digital Business.
So what can you expect this morning? Well first of all, Mr. Krüger will explain to you what the
BMW Group sets apart from the competitors and how it will take 3 stages into the future. Then
Mr. Peter will follow with the detailed figures on the business development of 2018 and our
outlook. Following that, Mr. Krüger will then present to you our model offensive, which we call
Model Offensive 2.0. And there is also one new vehicle included in this. And afterwards, you can
then ask your questions to all members of the board. Then finally. And I think that's also important
for all of us because we will have earned it by then, we will then invite you to join us for lunch.
So much from my side. And now Mr. Krüger, the floor is yours.
`Harald Krüger, Chairman of Management Board & CEO
Thank you very much. Good morning. Welcome. Today, I would like to show you what sets the
BMW Group apart from our competitors with a look back into the recent past and then with a look
forward into the future.
We are shaping successfully the future of mobility. And in doing so, we are consistently charting
our own course. We are constantly redeveloping our business model because it has to be
profitable and successful also in the digital age. And one example for this is our new joint venture
with Daimler, which combines all our NOW services. We're strengthening our core business and
our global presence, for example, in China and the U.S. We deliver because we turn words into
actions. Our successful transition to the new emission standard, WLTP, is a good example of this.
So ladies and gentlemen, in recent past, we've evolved from a pure manufacturer to a mobility
provider. And going forward, we aim to be a leading tech company for premium mobility. For this
reason, we are providing our company a new and stronger foundation with regards to technology
in our relationships with customers and in our processes, structures and our work environment.
That is no easy task by far. But we are a very strong team. We continue to consistently follow our
Strategy NUMBER ONE > NEXT. We've been implementing measures for the past three years.
And our focus extends up to 2025. We have a clear vision of the future. Our journey has 3 stages
with milestones in 2018, 2021 and 2025. The first stage, the one up to 2018, (inaudible) What was
the BMW way? What sets us apart from others?
Well one thing I want to make very clear, BMW Group vehicles have not been manipulated and
that has now been confirmed again. We have invested heavily in new products and new drive
technologies and in digitalization. We have electrified many models and model series. Our BMW
i3 continues its success year-after-year. Worldwide, the total was more than 140,000 electrified
vehicles in 2018.
We started the biggest model offensive in our history that helps us to win market share across
the globe. Since 2016, we have made major advances in the development of autonomous driving.
And our autonomous driving campus outside Munich is now working at full speed. At the same
time, we've strengthened our footprint in all major regions of the world and we've expanded our
capacities. All of this shows you can trust us.
The BMW Group is robust, fast and flexible. We are now entering into the second phase of
NUMBER ONE > NEXT, which will take us up to the end of 2021. What are the challenges for our
industry now? Well the business environment remains highly volatile. e-mobility will continue togrow in importance and the development of highly automated vehicles will continue to make
advances.
Now what do we do differently than others and why? Well we are systematically investing in our
range of electrified vehicles for all customer needs. We also create additional flexible platforms
for the different types of drivetrains for combustion engines, for plug-in hybrids and for electric
drivetrains. From 2020, the popular BMW X3 will be our first model that we will offer with all 3
drivetrains. Customers will then have the full choice. This broad approach allows us to be --
remain flexible. And it's the most efficient solution at the same time. A single platform for all.
We will keep our foot on the throttle with new model releases. This year alone, we've launched
more than 20 new or updated models. And we're electrifying all our brands and model series. By
the end of this year, we will have 500,000 plug-in hybrid and electric vehicles on the road. e-
mobility is fun, amazing acceleration and virtually silent, thanks to the electric engine and the
battery. Together, they form the heart of every electric vehicle. We produce the electric drive and
high-voltage systems ourselves, which makes sure that we have the essential expertise firmly in
our own hands.
Regarding battery cells, we will continue to build on our existing expertise. And for this, this
summer, we will open the new BMW Group Battery Cell Competence Centre in Munich. Through
CHARGE NOW, our customers already today have access to more than 100,000 charging points
in 25 countries. And CHARGE NOW also shows that cooperations between companies are
gaining an importance.
We always seek out the most suitable partners in different fields. In the 2 important areas of
future activity, we've embarked on a long-term cooperation with Daimler AG. To provide more
services in more cities, we've created 5 joint ventures. Already now the NOW services have more
than 60 million customers. And together, we will invest over EUR 1 billion. The benefit for
customers is that everything comes from a single source and soon from a single app.
When it comes to autonomous driving, both companies already have extensive know-how. And
together, we will be developing next-level technology for autonomous driving for our models
from 2024 on. As a global company, more than ever, we have to satisfy different demands in
different regions. And with our Strategy NUMBER ONE > NEXT, we want to grow in all major
regions of the world and aim to expand our market share. And to achieve this, we have specific
strategies for each region.
Let me start with China. China is our largest single market and a strong driving force for e-
mobility. Our approach is as follows. With our new plant in Shenyang, we'll increase our capacity to
650,000 vehicles per year. And with our new joint venture with Great Wall, we will build fully
electric MINI vehicles. From 2020 onwards, we will produce the first fully electric BMW, the iX3,
which we will export from China to the rest of the world.
In the U.S., we continue to invest in the expansion of our Spartanburg plant. This year, our plant
celebrates its 25th anniversary there. The new BMW X7 signals our firm commitment to the U.S.,
our second home. The U.S. Department of Commerce has once again confirmed that BMW, for
the fifth consecutive year, is the leading U.S. automotive exporter by value. With our new plant in
Mexico, we will expand our sphere of activity in the Americas. This plant will open in June.
Europe is our largest sales region and home to the most of the BMW Group plants and home to
most of our employees. The political situation remains tense due to the uncertainty over Brexit.
But we are well prepared for all scenarios. The same principle applies for all our regions. Ourcommitment is geared towards the long term. But free access to markets is essential for all of
this because it ensures growth, prosperity and employment everywhere.
Ladies and gentlemen, to become an agile tech company, we also need to change ourselves
internally. Efficient structures have always been part of the BMW Group. And let me give you 2
current examples: our cross-divisional program, Performance > NEXT; and our new sales and
marketing structure.
We've started implementing Performance > NEXT sometime ago and our goal is to become
faster, profitable and more efficient. We're concentrating specifically on 3 fields: customers and
sales, vehicle. And organization and structures. Performance > NEXT will permanently change the
whole company. We're targeting a total savings potential of more than EUR 12 billion by the end
of 2022. These measures will be sustainable and have an impact well into the next decade.
Let's now look at the second example. Our relationship with customers is vital to the success of
our business. Starting in April, we will have one sales division for our BMW, MINI and Rolls-Royce
automotive brands. This will be known internally as the C division. And C stands for customer,
which shows our clear focus on the customer.
The division will be responsible for creating a consistent brand experience across all touch points.
Our colleague, `Peter Schwarzenbauer, Member of Board of Management, will leave the company in October at his own request
when he turns 60. That was his decision to leave on his 60th birthday. And at this juncture, I would
like to thank `Peter Schwarzenbauer, Member of Board of Management accordingly for everything he's done for the BMW Group, for
the topics he's driven ahead, such as mobility services, the digitalization and then to bring the
brands MINI and Rolls-Royce to new heights. And I will respect his decision. And I'm looking
forward to the coming months together with you.
Now a smaller Board of Management from our point of view sends the right signal for
consistently streamlined structures across the whole company. And successful marketing
supports our sales activities worldwide. Each of our premium brands embodies emotions. The
same goes for sports. And this is why sports have always played a key role -- for a long time
played a key role in our marketing. And here, too, we will be taking a new direction with strategic
partnerships in the future.
The third stage in the implementation of Strategy NUMBER ONE > NEXT will take us all the way to
2025. And here, the BMW approach is again quite different from that of other companies. BMW
NEXT stands for individual mobility at a whole new level. It will enable the entire company and all
our brands to face the challenges of the future. It's our innovation and technology flagship. And
you can see the concept car here on stage.
Other than its 4 wheels, it doesn't have much in common with a regular car. The iNEXT combines
several future technologies. Amongst them, full connectivity, a futuristic interior, an electric range
of over 600 kilometers for everyday drivability of both short and long distances. And it also
signals the launch of Level 3 highly automated driving. At the same time, we'll be also testing
Level 4 and 5 autonomous driving in urban areas with a fleet of iNEXT vehicles. This opens a
whole new chapter for the BMW Group.
Today, more than 80% of accidents are caused by driver error. Autonomous driving can virtually
eliminate these accidents. Safety is our top priority in developing these cars. That is why we go to
such lengths to safeguard these new technologies. And by the time we launch our Level 3 system
in 2021, we will have clocked up more than 240 million test kilometers. And around 95% of these
in simulations.Technologies from the iNEXT will be incorporated throughout our entire model lineup. The BMW
iNEXT will be released onto the market in 2021. Autonomous driving relies on and generates
huge quantities of data, which means that data analytics will become a game-changer. Next
week, we'll be opening a data center outside of Munich. And by mid-2025, we want to have 500
petabytes of storage capacity available, which is needed to process data off-board.
Ladies and gentlemen, being mobile will continue to be part of our lives and also in our globally
connected world. At the BMW Group, we will continue to drive sustainable, connected and
autonomous mobility forward. So much for the moment. And later, I'll show you the models that
will inspire our customers in coming years. Thank you very much.
`Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Thank you very much, `Harald Krüger, Chairman of Management Board & CEO. And now `Nicolas Peter, CFO & Member of Management Board, the floor is yours.
`Nicolas Peter, CFO & Member of Management Board `
Thank you, Max. Good morning, ladies and gentleman. And warm welcome also on my own
behalf. The year 2018 once again demonstrated the financial performance strength of BMW. And
despite massive headwinds, we reported the second-best result in our company's history. For the
past 15 years, BMW Group is the world-leading premium car manufacturer. Our EBIT margin of 72
-- of 7.2% is still at a high level also compared to competition and is in line with our adjusted
guidance for the full year.
Nevertheless, let's clearly state the facts. Our performance in 2018 did not meet our usually high
standards. The challenging environment left its mark on the entire automotive industry last year.
I'm referring, in particular, to the trade dispute between U.S. and China. But also the change of
regulations and the negative trend in exchange rates and commodity prices are really affecting
the outcome of all the manufacturers. Although we very smoothly mastered the transition to the
new WLTP test cycle, the price war initiated by some of our competitors also impacted our
profitability. At the same time, we are managing planned expenses for our ongoing business and
are setting our company's course to the future.
Ladies and gentlemen, BMW Group is undergoing the largest model offensive in its history. We
are investing billions into new products in e-mobility, autonomous driving and the next strategic
steps of mobility services. There, we see enormous potential. What is (decisive) is scalability. e-
mobility is a challenging economic but is also without any alternative. As premium manufacturer,
we've got the best prerequisites in order to master electrification successfully.
In 2018, despite these extremely volatile conditions, it was an overall successful year for the BMW
Group. We were the only premium car company to see growth in the U.S. In China, we delivered
more than 640,000 vehicles in a contracting market. And in Europe, despite sales distortions due
to WLTP and declining market, we were able to maintain sales at the same high level as in the
previous year. We also deliberately cut production to avoid fueling price wars.
BMW brand deliveries reached a new all-time high. In Europe, as planned, we were able to grow
our segment share. Worldwide, in particular, our X models, in particular, the strong -- the new X3
with almost 38%, were really high in demand. BMW 5 Series once again posted a significant
increase in sales. Despite a slight decrease in sales, MINI reported the second-best year in its
history. In particular, MINI Countryman proved especially popular. Nearly 1 in 7 Countryman sold is a
plug-in hybrid. Rolls-Royce posted the best year in the marque's history. Deliveries rose by more
than 1/5 with the Phantom and the new Cullinan performing very well. BMW Motorrad deliveredmore than 165,000 units to customers for an eighth consecutive record year and substantially
enhanced its product line up to -- up in 2018.
Our electrified vehicles are also doing well with customers. As planned, we exceeded our target
sales -- our sales target of 140,000 units in 2018 as planned with an increase of almost 40% over
the previous year. The main growth drivers are the plug-in hybrid versions of the BMW 5 Series,
X1, X2 Series and MINI Countryman. The iX3, too, remains very successful with sales up to more
than 10%. Since its market launch in 2013, demand for the i3 has increased strongly every year.
Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a look at our financial figures now. Due to the described
burdens, the sales are reflected only partially here. Group revenues were on par with the
previous year at EUR 97.48 billion. Adjusted for currency transition effect, revenues increased by
1.2%. The EBT margin remained above our target figure of 10%.
As previously announced, group earnings before tax showed a moderate decrease in the
previous year at EUR 9.82 billion. As expected, various factors had impact here, mainly
development of currency and commodity prices as well as higher expenses for research and
development. Further impact on earnings came from the challenging pricing situation, especially
in Europe, due to the WLTP transition as well as additional burden from China's punitive tariffs on
U.S. imports.
As expected, our financial result due to valuation effects was decreasing expectedly. However,
the earnings contributions of our Chinese joint venture, BBA, rose significantly to nearly EUR 740
million. Net profit amounts to EUR 7.2 billion. The prior year, the net profit due to valuation effects
was -- of around EUR 1 billion in connection with the U.S. tax reform had been exceptionally high.
The Fourth Quarter of 2018 developed as expected with revenues and pretax earnings at the
same time level as the previous year. The EBIT margin of the Automotive segment amounted to
6.3%, which was in line with our expectations.
Ladies and gentlemen, even in times of difficult conditions, our sights remain firmly fixed forward
and to the future. In line with our strategy, we continue to invest at high level. Our BMW iNEXT has
built 2 blocks for the future. From 2021, we will enable our entire model lineup with highly
automated drive systems and the fifth-generation electric drivetrain, which we developed in-
house.
Capital expenditure, primarily for property, plant and equipment, rose to EUR 5.03 billion. These
funds were mainly channeled to preparations for the launch of new models in plants in
Spartanburg, Dingolfing and Munich as well in the plant construction in Mexico. We strongly
believe in the value of flexible plants. This is an advantage during periods of volatility and
significantly varying conditions between regions. CapEx ratio amounts to 5.2%. For the current
year, we expect the ratio to be slightly higher.
As previously announced, our research and development expenditure in 2018 reached an all-time
high of EUR 6.89 billion. The R&D ratio according to German Commercial Code amounts to 7.1%.
In 2019, it will be lower but still above 6%. The ratio of capitalized development costs amounts to
43.3%. The large number of model launches and new architectural modules was reflected in
higher capitalized development costs. This year, we expect to see a substantial decrease in the
capitalization ratio.
Ladies and gentlemen, despite challenging conditions, BMW Group posted solid results for the
financial year 2018. On behalf of the entire Board of Management, I would like to thank all our
employees for their commitment over the past year. We would also like to thank our shareholdersThe Board of Management and the Supervisory Board will propose a dividend of EUR 3.50 per
share of common stock and EUR 3.52 per share of preferred stock in 2018. This is the second-
highest dividend we have ever paid with a total payout of EUR 2.3 billion. As a result, 32% of our
net profit for the year will be paid out to shareholders. This is in line with our target corridor of
between 30% and 40%. As usual, our dividend payout will completely be covered by our free
cash flow.
Now let's turn to the individual segments, starting with the Automotive segment. Dampened by
currency translation effects, segment revenues were on par with last year at EUR 85.85 billion.
Due to the external headwinds I mentioned and high upfront investments, EBIT decreased to EUR
6.18 billion. Under these conditions, EBIT margin of 7.2% reached a high level and exceeded our
adjusted target of at least 7%. As usual, earnings contributions from our China joint venture is not
included in this figure. Moreover, as a matter of principle, we do not adjust our reported figures
for one-off effects.
Here, you can see the EBIT bridge for the Automotive segment from the previous year. As
expected, we experienced significant headwinds from currency and commodity prices. The net
balance of other operating income and expenses had a positive impact in 2018. The 2017 figures
included increased provisions for legal disputes and other litigation to risks, which did not recur in
2018 and therefore resulted in a positive year-on-year effect. High upfront investments,
increasing depreciations dampened earnings as expected. Higher tariffs, the challenging pricing
situation, especially due to the WLTP transition in Europe, as well as warranty and goodwill
campaigns also had a negative impact.
Ladies and gentlemen, we responded early to the challenges in our environment and launched a
company program to boost performance already back in 2017. Through PERFORMANCE > NEXT,
we are systematically addressing structural issues across the BMW Group, optimizing processes
and improving efficiency.
We've always -- we've already made several important decisions. We are significantly reducing
our -- the complexity of our portfolio at all levels. We will only develop what customers demand.
We are also eliminating derivatives with low demand as well as reducing our drivetrain portfolio
and country variants by up to 50%. This will allow us to focus even more on customers' wishes
and requests and at the same time, offset rising manufacturing costs.
We have shortened the development process by up to 1/3. This will enable us to take advantage
of opportunities in the market faster and allow us to be more efficient. We are continuously
optimizing structures and processes at our headquarters, plants and at the local subsidiaries as
that's how we are pooling our resources across all functional areas. Why have PERFORMANCE >
NEXT? We are continuously changing our structures and work method sustainably. And we will
become faster and more agile.
Now let's talk about the capital flow -- or cash flow in our segment. Despite higher capital
expenditures and lower net profit, free cash flow in the Automotive segment is still totaling EUR
2.71 billion. We are aiming for a similar amount for 2019. Our financial independence gives us the
freedom to shape our own future independently. At the end of the year, by 31st of December
2018, our liquidity totaled EUR 16.3 billion. This means that BMW Group is on a very solid footing
financially. This ensures that we are able to take action even though parameters are constantly
changing and conditions are getting difficult.
Now let's move to the Financial Services segment, which despite rising interest rates in a number
of key markets and fierce competition, continued to grow its business in 2018. The number ofnew contracts with retail customers increased slightly by 4.4% to 1.91 million. Both our leasing
business and credit financing reported slight growth. The penetration rate of 50.0% is
3.2percentage points higher than in the previous year, mainly driven by new credit financing
business in China. Pretax earnings reflect the positive business development and reached EUR
2.16 billion.
Despite a substantial increase in its equity base, the Financial Services segment achieved a return
on equity of 14.8% and exceeded our minimum requirement of at least 14%. Even with growing
volatility worldwide, the risk situation in the segment remained stable over the past financial year.
Credit loss ratio in 2018 fell and is now at 0.25%. Market price risks for our leasing portfolio also
remained stable overall. Prices in the North American used car markets even trended slightly
upwards. In Europe, however, we experienced, as expected, slight headwinds. From today's
perspective, we remain well prepared for any business risks we may encounter.
Ladies and gentlemen, now let's move to the Motorrad segment, Motorcycles. With over
165,000 units sold and our eighth sales record in a row, we are on course to reach our target of
200,000 units in 2020. Pretax segment earnings totaled EUR 169 million. And mainly, this is due
to changeovers of models and mix effects. The EBIT margin was 8.1%, which again is within our
target range of 8% to 10%. In 2018, our customers could look forward to 6 new models with the
new medium-sized models, the new addition of R 1250 GS and the highly anticipated new S 1000
RR. And other models, we are expecting further growth in 2019.
Now finally, let's look at intersegment Eliminations. Intersegment Eliminations contributed
positively with EUR 553 million compared to a negative EUR 534 million in the prior year. As noted
in previous quarters, the main reasons for this development are lower elimination of
intersegment profits for new leasing contracts due to the lower EBIT in the Automotive segment
and positive reversal effects resulting from strong growth in the leasing portfolio in the previous
years.
Ladies and gentlemen, BMW Group is known for its ability to also handle challenging terrain. We
like challenges. Despite massive headwinds, we delivered healthy profitability in 2018. This shows
just how much operational capacity this company has. So what are our plans for the current year?
Even in this challenging environment, we are setting our standard high.
In 2019, we aim to maintain BMW's position in the premium segment as a leading manufacturer.
And we will be targeting further growth in all major sales regions. We expect to see a positive
impetus from our young product portfolio. However, since a lot of the models are still in the
launch and ramp-up phases, earnings will not benefit from the full effects in 2019. Due to the
model changeovers, we expect the first half year to be weaker overall. We will continue to make
substantial investments in new technologies and future topics also in 2019.
The European Union's extremely ambitious CO2 legislation also requires high additional
expenses and will lead to higher manufacturing costs, which will impact earnings. At the same
time, we again expect to face significant currency and commodity headwinds in the mid; to high
3-digit million Euro range.
Further, development in tariffs is another major uncertainty. Our guidance assumes that there will
be no increase in tariffs between the U.S. and the European Union. The preparations necessary
for U.K.'s withdrawal from the EU will be an additional burden in 2019. Nevertheless, we continue
to expect that there will be an orderly Brexit. The competitive environment may also get tougher
over the course of the second stage in the WLTP transition in 2019.The Automotive segment expects a slightly higher year-on-year on deliveries. A range of 8% to
10% for our EBIT margin is our clear target in a stable business environment. We want to reach
this as well. There are, however, many parameters over which we have only limited influence. Due
to the negative impact of the factors mentioned above, we expect an EBIT margin between 6%
and 8% in 2019. The high level of volatility makes it difficult to provide a clear forecast. However,
we will continue to use all internal levers in working back towards our strategy profitability target.
In the Motorcycles segment, strengthened by our renewed model lineup, we are planning for a
solid increase in deliveries with an EBIT margin between our target range of 8% to 10%. In
Financial Services segment, we expect return on equity to be on par with the last year and
thereby above our target figure of 14%.
Now let's take a look at the group figures. In addition to the headwinds I referred to, the absence
of a number of positive valuation effects from 2018 will lead to a significant decrease in the
financial results in 2019. As a result, group earnings before taxes are expected to be also
significantly lower than in the prior year. We will continue to hire specialists in key areas for future
technologies. However, in 2019, we will not increase the overall size of the workforce. The total
number of employees will, therefore, remain at around the same level as in 2018.
Ladies and gentlemen, risks for our guidance may be subject to additional risks. In particular, this
refer -- this regards the risk of a no-deal Brexit and ongoing developments in international trade
policy. Partly as a result of these factors, we are already seeing a slowdown in the global
economy. If conditions deteriorate further, effects on our guidance cannot be ruled out
completely.
Ladies and gentlemen, BMW Group remains focused on the long term. We have already made a
number of clear decisions as part of our program PERFORMANCE > NEXT. We will continue
systematically implementing the measures needed for growth, further increased performance
and efficiency. This will give us the freedom we need to build a future and secure our future
competitiveness. Thanks to our operational and financial strength, we are capable of steering this
company successfully through the industry's transformation process. We are continuing to
develop our refined -- and refine our business model. Creating sustainable value remains our
goal, not only today but also in the future.
`Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Thank you, Nicolas. Before passing on to Mr. Krüger, I would like to welcome a special guest.
He's sitting at the far right at the (inaudible). He's our overall Chairman of the Works Council and
Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Mr. Schoch. Welcome, Mr. Schoch.
Now let's come to part 2 by -- of Mr. Krüger.
`Harald Krüger, Chairman of Management Board & CEO
Well ladies and gentlemen, the BMW Group has been the #1 in premium segment sales for the
past 15 years. And despite the uncertainties we're facing around the globe, we aim to continue
our successful development. The basis for this is the attractiveness of our brands, products and
services. Our goal is to outperform the premium segment. And to achieve this, we will continue
our model offensive, driving full-speed ahead.
2019 will be our year of the plug-in hybrid. BMW will release the 3 Series, the X5 and the 7 Series
all as PHEVs. The X3 will also be available for the first time as a plug-in hybrid. All these models
come with a 4th generation of a battery and our electric drivetrain technology, which enables usan electric range of up to 80 kilometers. The 2 Series and 5 Series models will also get a battery
update in the summer.
I myself drive a plug-in hybrid and it's perfect to get customers excited about electric driving. This
technology offers a pragmatic approach that goes a long way towards improving air quality in
cities quickly because studies have found that plug-in hybrids with an electric range of at least 60
kilometers are driven just as far in electric mode as pure electric models.
And we're taking this one step further with our pilot project, Electric City Drive. Together with the
city of Rotterdam, we're currently encouraging plug-in hybrid drivers to use pure electric mode in
the city. And for this, we provide them with all the relevant data on their smartphones.
BMW and MINI will also continue to release fully electric models with full speed. The emotional
MINI Electric will be launched this year and media representatives have already had a chance to
test it and feedback has been highly positive, I can tell you. This will then be followed in 2020 by
the iX3. And 2021 will be the year of the BMW i4 and the BMW iNEXT.
So all in all, by the end of 2020, we have brought more than 10 new and updated models with
electrified drivetrains to the market. And for me, this is a clear statement. With our Strategy
NUMBER ONE > NEXT, we will not only boost sales of electrified vehicles, especially in the upper
segments, we also aim to increase sales and revenues significantly.
The new X5 is now fully available for the whole year for the first time. The new 7 Series will be
released onto the market later this month and the X7 will follow mid-year. And the 8 Series
Coupé will be joined by the Convertible and the Gran Coupé as well as the corresponding M
models.
In the mid-size segment, our top-selling model, the new BMW 3 Series has been in showrooms
since early March. The first customers have been highly excited by this. Particularly, they've been
excited by the extensive connectivity features.
We also have attractive new models in the compact class. The new BMW 1 Series will be available
for delivery by the end of the year. And I would also like to announce a completely new model
today, the BMW 2 Series Gran Coupé. It will celebrate its world premier in November in Los
Angeles and is scheduled for release in early 2020. This model will be geared especially towards
young and urban target groups with a fresh and stunning design. So you can see, we remain
consistently on the offensive.
Ladies and gentlemen, the BMW Group is firmly setting its course for the future. Customers
remain the clear focus of all that we do with all the wishes and mobility needs. Innovative
solutions are our lever to ensure that every customer experiences mobility in a wholly individual
way.
Ladies and gentlemen, there's been a lot of talk recently about the purpose of companies. But at
the end of the day, it all comes down to sustainably earning money with a particular business
model. Only then can you secure the continued existence of one's own company. Only then can
we create jobs and innovations and only then can a company make an effective contribution to
society. And none of that has changed or will change in the digital age.
The BMW Group remains among the most profitable automotive companies in the world. And we
will continue to be a reliable and profitable investment for our shareholders moving forward. With
this, we have a clear objective for the future to remain the leader in everything we do. And we
remain on our own course for this.Thank you very much. Now I'm looking forward to your questions.
Questions And Answers
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Thank you, Mr. Krüger. Well dear colleagues, we'll now come to your questions and our answers.
And I would like you to raise your hands if you want to ask a question. This time, we will start with
(Sudoy Chesai) and (Max Hagler) and following this, we will have (Bersan Said) and (Sebastian
Schmidt). Mr. Hagler, please your question.
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Unknown
You are talking about the year of the hybrid vehicles. Now there is a large manufacturer from
lower Saxony and that has just presented a radical e-car plan, which could be seen as an attack
on BMW and also on to your new partner, Daimler. So what is your answer to that? Even more,
pure electric cars are -- or do you want to go in to discussion with Volkswagen or do you hope for
a politician support? So that's one question. Then behind the discussion, there's also the -- there
are also the EU CO2 reduction requirements. You are familiar with the targets. And do you think
that BMW will be able to reach these objectives? And doesn't it make sense to get cars a little
lower, a little smaller, a little leaner in this process? Audi seems to hope that this could be a
solution. So will BMW also follow suit on this? Then the third question, Daimler is also aiming for
corporation regarding platforms, especially for smaller cars. From BMW, we've heard some
reservations from year fits from the innovation center and because it could destroy the character
of the cars. You were also talking about BMW's own course. But is it avoidable that you join such a
platform corporation in view of the cost pressure?
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Okay. Thank you very much, Mr. (Hagler). I think this is enough room for a longer presentation. But
first, I would like to hand over to Mr. Fröhlich, the Head of Development.
A - `Klaus Froehlich, Member of the Board of Management `
Thank you very much for the large number of questions. I hope, I can answer them all. Let's see.
Let me start first with the topic of the drivetrain of the future. Well we continue to firmly believe
that our strategy from 2021 onwards to conceptionally enable all 3 types of drives, the
combustion engines, plug-in hybrids with significantly enhanced functionality and also pure
electrical V battery -- electrical vehicles, that this will be the right strategy. Why is that? Well in
addition to the German market, we have the global market to deal with. And there is completely
different developments. In China, there's a clear focus on battery-driven vehicles but also
significant PHEV volume. In the U.S., especially from the customer side, there's not that much
momentum towards e-mobility, apart from the States that have specific subsidies. And in Europe,
we can see from the customers' point of view, the entrance into pure electric mobility, to BEVs
against the backdrop of infrastructure questions is still restricted. That's why we believe our
approach is the right one but nevertheless, we will offer a broad portfolio also of purely battery
electric vehicles from our side. So we don't see any attacks in this. We are highly flexible when it
comes to the different geo regions. Then CO2 targets, well this is a bet on the penetration of e-
mobility deals. Ambitious goals for 2030 can only be reached if at this point, from the side of
manufactures, from the side of the infrastructure but also from the side of customer behavior, a
large supply and a large penetration of the fleet by e-vehicles will have been made possible at
this point. We are well prepared for this. We can also deliver these high volumes. But we have to
stimulate customer demand for this. And the current change in corporate car taxation is the rightstep. Then if we look at corporation, well in the tech topics, in the digital topics, corporations
make a lot of sense not just to save money. But also to drive ahead the standardization of new
technologies, like for example, autonomous driving in the conventional fields like the architecture,
of course, the platforms and all of that. We see a very intensive competition between OEMs and
not that much need for standardization. That has -- I mean we're always open for corporation in
specific fields. But our focus and strategy is clearly on the new fields of digitalization when it
comes to corporations.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Okay. Next question by (Sebastian Schmidt) and following that, we will have `Oliver Sachgau, Analyst, Unknown.
Sebastian Schmidt.
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Unknown
Yes. I also have 3 questions. First of all, the delivery targets for electrified vehicles this year. Last
year, you had a 40% increase. If I follow -- if I read correctly in the press release, the goal is 10%
or below 10%. So with all the plug-in hybrids you've presented, don't you want to put a higher
figure into this? Or do you assume there will be such a low demand? Then the next topic, talking
about Performance > NEXT. You talked about customers, sales and structures, vehicles. If you
could tell us how the EUR 12 billion up to 2022 are separated across these 3 areas? Then the EUR
12 billion -- and then the significantly reduced group results or do you assume for 2020, that there
will be a further shortening of the reduction of the dividend that we can expect as a shareholder.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Okay, we'll start with Mr. Krüger and Mr. Peter in this -- in answering this.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of Management Board & CEO
Well it was about the sales figures, about -- of electrified vehicles, we have 2 or 3 goals. One was
that I showed, 500,000 units on the road by the end of 2019. That needs a -- needs some
growth in 2019 but you also have to take into account that part of the plug-in hybrids will only be
available in the second half of the year. So the full year effect won't be there. The 3 Series and
the high X5 -- with high-volume shares. One example in Belgium in the past, every second X5
sold was a plug-in hybrid. So the volume effect of the X5 and the 3 Series Sedan, which will be
coming onto the market new now will only be there in the beginning of the -- in the third and
Fourth Quarter. Of course, we want to consistently grow also with the i3, by the way. We want to
set a new record year, which would be the sixth record year in a row. Usually product cycle is
higher then flattens. But the i3 goes up year-on-year.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Nicolas?
A - `Nicolas Peter, CFO & Member of Management Board `
Well Performance > NEXT. First of all, Performance > NEXT 2017, we -- in 2017, we implemented
this. There were more than 10 initiatives pulling all kinds of levers in our profit and loss
statements. If you start in the sales areas and significant markets now, we have real-time data
available online of dealerships, of deliveries, now of customer wishes. So that we can precisely
control everything at any point, that's one aspect. Another significant aspect, when it comes to
material costs, both in direct and indirect purchasing, here we've started initiatives and thendevelopment time is the reduction of complexities, complexities within our product portfolio,
complexities and this reduction will have a positive effect on our whole value chain. Now the
question regarding 2020 will then be answered in one year's time.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Okay. Thank you very much for this. As the next question now from `Oliver Sachgau, Analyst, Unknown and then
`Edward Taylor, Analyst, Unknown.
Q - `Oliver Sachgau, Analyst, Unknown `
I've got 3 short questions. First is, in your outlook to 2019, you said that possible tariffs between
the U.S. and the EU are not to be expected. If such tariffs are enacted, what can you do against
this? How -- do you have any plans to encounter this threat already? And secondly, we heard
about a battery consortium of Europe. Would you also take part in such a project? And the third
question is, sorry if you answered it (inaudible) already. You said in 2019, your staff will remain at
the prior year's level, does it mean that there might be a downsizing in 2020?
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Okay, let's start with Mr. Krüger speaking about tariffs. Second is battery cell consortium will be
answered by Mr. Fröhlich. And then the question about Performance > NEXT, Mr. Peter.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of Management Board & CEO
So as regards tariffs, I told you in my speech that we are clearly favoring free world trade. If you
take a look at the -- we are the largest net exporter from the United States by value and in South
Carolina, that's created 11,000 jobs. We have more than 70,000 jobs in the U.S. alone. We can
prove that free world trade can also create growth and prosperity in other countries. We are
prepared and we are flexible. Let me explain this in 2 steps. We are now building the X3 in
several sites in the U.S., in South Africa and in China. That gives us the possibility also to create
more volume for the U.S. in a situation of tariffs than before when we were still in competition. So
with this enhanced production allocation for the U.S. market, we can react to such effects. So this
is the second answer. But I'm really in favor of free world trade.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Second part, battery cell consortium, Klaus.
A - `Klaus Froehlich, Member of the Board of Management `
So let's start perhaps with electromobility. For our company, this is of highest strategic priority.
And that is why already today, we've got the highest value creation in this area. And the battery
system, apart from the storage and from an economic point of view, is the most relevant and the
biggest issue. And that is also how we are involved in this subject starting from the securing the
commodities and raw materials by our procurement department via further development of the
chemicals and products and cells up to the industrialization competence for battery cells,
modules and batteries, which we have already today. And we also have launched joint projects in
-- when batteries will be returned to the company, we are already thinking of recycling in order to
ensure the recycling. We are currently supporting all European initiatives which are not only
focusing on cell production. But on all these competencies, ensuring the raw materials, battery
development because it's the product which needs to be competitive. You can only produce it if
you make sure before that you do not just develop anything but something which is reallysubjects. And we are supporting 2 main roles. Our prime priority role is that we are competent in
all those parts of the value creation chain. And we are providing this technology at all levels.
Second point, we are a very reliable and a very big customer for procurement of battery cells.
That means that our strategic orientation, it has not changed at all. Our capability to act is already
very big and will become even larger. And Mr. Krüger mentioned the battery cell center. And
I've just discussed with `Oliver Zipse, Head of Production & Member of Management Board from the production side the industrialization questions. We
do have leverage in production already today of such battery cells. This will be continuously
developed and in equidistance with several cell producers. We do have cell producers in North
Korea and China. And we're also interested in getting several Europeans on board. And together
with them, we'll continue of each time the next cell generation. So already today, we are able to
develop a cell. And we also understand how to produce it. And the 3 criteria, costs, function and
quality, can be ensured already by us. So -- and I think this is also the current state-of-the-art, we
have already filed some subsidized -- or some subsidizing applications in Europe.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of Management Board & CEO
Let me add something. I would like to sum up what Mr. Fröhlich has said. We all -- we feel that
we are leading the competition already as regards management of process chains and
production. And this -- there are no so many in the world.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
NEXT performance, `Nicolas Peter, CFO & Member of Management Board.
A - `Nicolas Peter, CFO & Member of Management Board `
Let me give you some more details regarding Performance > NEXT. I mentioned earlier that
we've got the development process, which we optimized further and, therefore, for example,
due to an improved virtual hedging, more than 2,500 hardware prototypes can be eliminated.
This is a lot of money and when you just think of the indirect procurement, which I mentioned
earlier on, just to give you a feeling for the magnitude, every year we buy for a little above --
slightly above EUR 20 billion in nonproduction-related procurement. If you just imagine that we
could cut perhaps a single-digit percentage, you may have an idea of the potential. Or let me
give you another example, at the performance side in our sales, we already have more than 20
markets with a systematic program being implemented, where the customer, after having
ordered a car, gets an offer maybe to take one or the other option on top. Similarly, as you might
have seen this from other online dealers for this vehicle and this configuration. So where we offer
the customers that your car would go down well also with this or the other configuration or
option. And regarding the development, we are planning for a flat development. That means that
on the one hand, we are going to -- because we feel it's the correct way, we will certainly
develop our future subject, Klaus Fröhlich has just mentioned, the example or one example in
one factory in Mexico, which will be launched live this year, we will build this. But on the other
hand, we are also getting close to the years where a lot of people will retire because of their
age. And of course, we are going to take the necessary measures and countermeasures as
appropriate.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Okay, the next one is `Edward Taylor, Analyst, Unknown. And then I've got our colleague from Denmark, (Haquin
Redar). Edward, please.
Q - `Edward Taylor, Analyst, Unknown `Okay, I've got 3 questions. You said you have prepared for any Brexit scenario. And my question
is, do you also plan certain exposures regarding leasing downturn or residual value declines? In
particular, I don't know what the situation is regarding your new banking license, whether you
might even need a new banking license for your U.K. finance activities and would that mean total -
- the revaluation of the entire portfolio? Is that already included in your Brexit scenario? And the
other question, as you said, you can rule out operational dismissals in the present program and
the second -- the next question goes to Mr. Krüger. The extension of your contract is expected.
The question is just are you going to continue? Or do you still have fun in the job?
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of Management Board & CEO
Let's start me with the -- let's -- with the third question. I think this is no question at all. And if you
have -- want to ask such a question you have to ask the Supervisory Board, full stop. Now let's
continue about operational dismissals.
A - `Nicolas Peter, CFO & Member of Management Board `
Okay. We do not plan any dismissals due to operational circumstances. This is a simple answer to
your question. And as regards to second subject, what about the Brexit scenarios and whether
we are also prepared for the leasing portfolio? Let me take in advance. Indeed, apart from the
United States and Germany, U.K. is the third large building block in our leasing portfolio. Market
development in U.K. may be different than many people might imagine. Since Brexit, if you just
look at the sales numbers, has not been negative at all. As regards residual values, the market
has still remained very stable. And also in the current year, there is -- we had a very perfect
launch. So we do not really assume that there will be a massive distortion in that segment. And
that's why the statement I made is still valid. We feel well on the residual value side in all the 3 big
leasing markets.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Thank you. Now let's turn to our colleague from Denmark and later on, Ms. (Rospide).
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Unknown
(Haquin Redar) from Bernstein Copenhagen. Three questions, if I may please. First, on Brexit, you
have stated that you expect an orderly Brexit. But everything is up in the air. You also stated you
are prepared for any outcome. Does that mean you are prepared for a 10% tariff in less than 10
days from now on your export on MINI and Rolls-Royce out from U.K. going to EU 27? Second
question, why the confidence that there's not going to be a tariff on cars imported to the U.S.
from EU? One could perhaps argue that if there's a trade deal between U.S. and China, then
President Trump will need a new (inaudible) and that could be EU. Thirdly, I've seen quite a long
story somewhere, I think it was in The Wall Street Journal about your cooperation with Daimler.
Lots of issues, lots of plans. But there was nonfigures whatsoever, nonnumbers on the expected
turnover or revenue or profits. Is that an issue you could go into today?
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Okay, let's start with Brexit. And U.S., EU tariffs and let's start with Mr. Krüger.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of Management Board & CEO
Okay, we are prepared for the different scenarios. And today, it's still in the air, what outcome can
be expected? This is a rather difficult question. Which Brexit scenario will really materialize. But asone site in the Netherlands where we are building MINIs. We have one site in U.K. so we are also
able to flexiblize up to a certain level between production sites as regards volume and models.
This is the first answer. And also we prepared thorough scenarios also for a chaotic Brexit. We
also planned for a production interruption in our Oxford site. We also will have a short break in
Goodwood for Rolls-Royce. And we are further flexible, of course, we took some measures,
where we ramped up our stocks in order to be prepared for such a situation. But I believe that in
total, we are well prepared for that subject. As regards to relations between United States and
EU and the tariffs, we are still confident at this point, this is the answer. And that's a very simple
answer. The world is very volatile. We will have to handle whatever will come. But as BMW Group,
we are certainly in a better situation than many other companies. We've got our largest
production site in the United States. So that enables us to produce for the U.S. market, especially
the SUVs, X3, X5, X4, X6 and in the future, also X7. And that gives us, of course, an advantage
for the high volume models in the U.S. market. Of course, tariffs would hit the situation. And that's
why we are in favor of free trade. But BMW Group is in a clearly better position than many other
companies. And the partners on the other side also know this, just as an add-on from my side. As
regards cooperations, Mr. Fröhlich will give to you the answer.
A - `Klaus Froehlich, Member of the Board of Management `
Regardless of what you read in the press about cooperation, there is a situation effect, which is
clearly more limited than what is being speculated in the press. We've got limited procurement
activities, which we are coordinating for nondifferentiating volumes, which is absolutely in line with
anti-cartel law. And we've got some in line, (loans) with 5 joint ventures Free Now, Park Now and
Share Now, that has been bundled. It's too early, though, to speak about revenues and
profitability of those service areas. We are now in the process of consolidation. And we are also
prepared and that has been mentioned already, to make investments from both companies.
Here, we are talking about scaling effects. We are not talking about our core business. We are just
talking about supporting our core business. And the third point is cooperation for autonomous
driving. And this is actually nothing new for us as BMW. Already in 2015, we launched a strategy,
we called it NEXT. We are driving for a scaling -- scalable system from Level 2 plus up to Level 4
for autonomous driving. And we are going to implement this as a first generation in 2021 with the
known partners, Fiat Chrysler. And to Mobileye. So there are many of them. And this is now going
into a second generation. So we are going to continue to work on Level 2 to 4. As it's the same
with e-mobility, penetration of this is very different in different regions and the second generation
in Level 4 and 5, we are also going to continue investments -- investing. And from 2024, we will
launch a standardization, cutting costs and expanding functions. And we are very happy that in
this approach, we have found a very strong partner, with Daimler, who will help us in scaling and
will be a certain partner for BMW -- another partner for BMW Group. I mentioned already that we
are implementing our strategy. And in tech areas, we are looking for suitable partners from the
automotive industry but also from the tech industry. That means from the strategic partnership or
focusing on just one partner is really nothing you can seriously assume.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Thank you, Klaus. (Sabrina Gozbert) and (Martin Prim).
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Unknown
I have some follow-ups on the figures. And I would ask you for some clarifications there. So how
high was the burden from punitive tariffs in 2018? And how high were the savings due to the
lower U.S. taxes in 2018? And how high are the costs from Brexit preparations, independent ofthe (EUD) final outcome? And another follow-up that we can ask, Mr. Krüger, I think we can ask
you, do you want to continue? That's not for the Supervisory Board to answer, I would say.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
I think everything has been said about this point. I'm sorry, I mean you can -- after your follow-up
on -- this is not an issue today, period. Nicolas?
A - `Nicolas Peter, CFO & Member of Management Board `
Okay, 2 figures that should answer your questions. First of all, the effects of punitive tariffs
between the U.S. and China, around EUR 270 million of the fact for 2018. And the second figure
that's -- it's difficult to predict how this will develop overall because the Brexit issue is still up in
the air. But we've planned for a lower to medium 3-digit million amount that we've provided for
the ongoing year to cope with possible challenges due to Brexit.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Okay. Thank you very much. Then Mr. (Prim) and following that, we will have one question from
China. Next my colleague, (inaudible) but we'll start with (Martin Prim).
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Unknown
I have a question about the development or the head count development. So you said you want
to keep it stable, you want to hire new people. Others will go to retirement. And we're now
facing the baby boomer generation to get into retirement. So how much leeway do you have
without going into forced redundancies? Which leeway do you have to master a few challenges?
Then another question, a large competitor here in Bavaria has a similar approach, avoiding those
forced redundancies. But nevertheless, significant restrictions in production with an effect on all
the regions. I mean you don't just have employees here in Munich but across Bavaria, you have a
region that depends on you completely. So are there any plans to shift business there? How will
this -- what will the effect be also of the opening of the new plant in Mexico? And in this context,
the 50% of variances and potentials that you see in drivetrains, whether certain potentials not to
offer certain varieties? Will that have significant consequences because you are also building up
plants in other regions or will this have an effect on the plants in lower Bavaria, for example?
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Ms. Andree? That's a question to you.
A - `Milagros Caiña Carreiro-Andree, HR & Industrial Relations Director and Member of Board of `
Well thank you very much for the question. You asked for the leeway that we have, the potential
to maintain on the one hand side, the number of employees on the previous year's level in view
of the additional staffing in the future fields and the new plant in Mexico. Well I would say it's
sufficient leeway. But that could be my answer. But I could also refer you to the fluctuation ratios
that you can find the volatilities due to age and retirement, how high they were in the past year.
And all of this leads to room to maneuver that we have. And you can find this in our reports. Then
there's another topic that you've asked for. Well due to our high flexibility, be it through working
time models through other forms and we currently don't see any significant effects that might
lead to any kind of forced redundancies within the time frame or within the foreseeable future.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental AffairsThank you very much. And I would like to hand this over to Mr. Zipse regarding production.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Head of Production & Member of Management Board `
Now Mr. (Prim), you had a specific question regarding the Bavarian production network. We can go
through the individual plants, what's going on there. So if we start with our Dingolfing plant, with
the competence center for e-mobility, we are hiring staff currently that is going ahead at full
throttle. In our plan 2.2, we are currently taking the preconditions for producing the fifth
generations of e-engines and high voltage storage systems, which will then be made available to
the production network, all over the world. At the same time new products will be launched, new
7 Series has just started last week there. And over the course of this year, we will also add the
second and third variant of the 8 Series, which will be brought into serious production there. Our
Munich plant has just seen the launch of the 3 Series. And we are getting prepared for the
integration of the i4. So that also shows that we have a stable situation, staff-wise here. Even if on
the efficiency side, we've taken major strides ahead. But in these 2 plants, for example, this is
well in balance. If we look at the one-hand side, the efficiency gains we have and the ramp up of
production. Then Regensburg together with our Leipzig plant is preparing the launch for the new
1 Series. So also in Regensburg, due to the transition we currently have a slight reduction. But as
soon as the new 1 Series will be here, we assume that we'll be on the previous year's level. And
all the rest is done through normal fluctuations. And on the employee level, this will not have any
substantial effects.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Thank you very much. And when it comes to variance, our CFO, `Nicolas Peter, CFO & Member of Management Board.
A - `Nicolas Peter, CFO & Member of Management Board `
Well to make it a little more tangible, how we can come up with these figures. If you just compare
how many drivetrain variance, how many variance we are highly successful in the U.S. and in China
and compare that to what we have on offer in Europe, then you can see that the first major
potential we have. The second major potential is that on the one-hand side, we will continue to
offer diesel engines and continue to develop diesel drivetrains. But we're nevertheless,
convinced that you don't need 5 diesel variance in individual models, especially in the European
markets, that less than 5 diesel variance could be significant -- could be sufficient and the positive
side effect that will be created in the reduction of drivetrain variances then also the costs for
more (litigation) work, all over the world will be reduced significantly.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Thank you very much. Now I would ask our colleague from China.
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Unknown
So welcome. I'm a journalist from China. Three small questions I would like to ask. The first one,
we talked about the cooperation plans between BMW and Daimler and BMW has opportunities in
China for ride hailing a cooperation and Daimler also has certain approaches. So those services,
the ride-hailing services that exist are to be developed further? And also what are the plans
regarding that? And are there plans for any global cooperations in this regard?
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
So that was the first question or -- okay, that was a question on ride hailing in China regardingA - `Peter Schwarzenbauer, Member of Board of Management
Well as mentioned before, we've just closed the -- we closed the joint venture -- just recently
closed the joint venture with Daimler. It was -- the agreement was taken in the 1st of February.
We're now in the setup process. The teams are being formed and then we will see how we will
act in the different global regions. Our first focus is on Europe. But as you rightly -- as you've
rightly said, in China we've started activities. So as a company, we are the first external or the first
non-Chinese company that's getting taxi license in Chengdu. We're testing our mobility services
there with fully electric cabs and this will continue in China. Remains to be seen over the next few
months. We can't answer this exactly.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Thank you very much. Mr. Klausen and then Mr. Fetter. Mr. Klausen?
Q - `Markus Klausen, Analyst, Unknown
Klausen of Dow Jones. First of all, I would like to ask Mr. Peter regarding the margin. You did not
fulfill the 8% as expected. So what are you expecting after 2020 in Stuttgart? Are they -- already
think that, at least in 2021, they might exceed or get the 8% again? So second question, China, as
you sold 640,000 vehicles there, What's your plan for this year, maybe for '21, '20 -- or 2021? Are
you going to get the million? And the next question regards employees. You said that due to
natural fluctuations, you can really manage this process. That is -- in our competitors, they are
talking about downsizing many thousands of jobs. Can you give us an idea of the room of
maneuver you have? And did I get you right that, currently, this is not an issue?
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Okay, that's a nice distribution. Let's start with `Nicolas Peter, CFO & Member of Management Board then Pieter Nota and then Mrs. Andre
again. Nicolas?
A - `Nicolas Peter, CFO & Member of Management Board `
So first of all, in order to be very clear on that, 8% to 10% will remain our strategic claim as
regards profitability in the field of Automotive. But presently, just to give you some examples, we
have to deal with tariffs, currency exchange, commodity prices and distortions in certain markets.
In some very important markets, we have seen a negative development also due to trade
disputes and uncertainties. And in such an environment, 6% to 8% are quite an ambitious goal.
And I think I could imagine that, as in 2018, by the way, we could also end up at the top of the
industry as regards profitability. So it would mean reading in a crystal ball just if you asked me
when these global conditions will change. But if you just take a look at the amount of this impact
of the subject I have just mentioned on our profit and loss account, you have an idea that 6% to
8% are quite an ambitious level for 2019.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Thank you. The second part of the question referred to planning of sales in China. Pieter Nota?
A - `Pieter A. J. Nota, Member of Management Board `
Yes. Thank you for the question. In China, we are well-positioned for 2019, let's answer that
question first. We are expecting solid growth, mainly driven by our model initiative. This year, for
the first time, we sold -- or we have full availability of X3 from local production in China, which isreached already in the second half of 2018, we want to go for further solid growth. That's our
expectation also for 2019. As regards 2020, I would not like to make any statement at this
moment. And beyond, I can say that in addition to our X3, the 7 Series vehicle is also doing very
well in China. And the major portion of our volume of the 7 Series will also -- is already going to
China. And in the second half of this year, we will have the new model. And that will make us very
confident for the next -- future in China as well.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Thank you, the part 3 of this question regarded employment again. Competitors are dismissing
staff, what's the situation in our company? Mrs. Andree.
A - `Milagros Caiña Carreiro-Andree, HR & Industrial Relations Director and Member of Board of `
Then let's give you also -- let's disclose some numbers. From people who are entering the free
period of old age -- or prior -- of earlier age pension, we have already a certain portion. And
2,500 people are leaving the companies. This is not just an expected numbers, this is easy to
calculate for pensions. This gives us a room of maneuver, of altogether, 4,000 jobs.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Okay. (Phillip Fetter) is the next, then (Ralph Miller) will continue.
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Unknown
Okay, I've got 3 very short questions. Also can -- one again about employees. 4,000 people
leaving the company, I think this will be per year, for people who are going to retire or are going
on early retirement. As I got you right, you don't see any substantial loss of staff in the year 2019.
So this compensation which is necessary in order to have this flat rate will happen mainly in
administration? Did I get you correctly? The second point is, you said that you don't see an attack
of your competition as regards openness to technology, if I got Mr. Fröhlich (back) but could you,
Mr. Krüger, tell us again how you felt when your colleague, Diess, mentioned this in Wolfsburg,
they also are playing with the idea of exiting VDA. What is your take on that associations? Are you
considering the same as your colleagues in Wolfsburg? And the third question is you could read a
lot recently about sponsoring of FC Bayern Munich. Today, you announced that you are very much
interested in efficiency measures. You mentioned big amounts of money which you wanted to
invest in soccer sponsorship. So can you explain this context to me?
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Let's start, staff first. Mrs. Andree?
A - `Milagros Caiña Carreiro-Andree, HR & Industrial Relations Director and Member of Board of `
I've got -- I mentioned worldwide numbers. Early retirement is, of course, mainly in a German
issue. But in general, I'm talking about worldwide numbers. Of course, the world of employees
will change. But -- and I really stick to my statement. We are not planning any dismissals for
operational reasons today. And from today's perspective, we are very confident that everything
which is necessary in terms of changes and restructuring measures in our company can really be
managed to -- with our current fluctuation and flexibility in-house.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Okay. Attack is the next question for the Chairman of the Board, Mr. Krüger.A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of Management Board & CEO
Well you mentioned, actually VDA. First clear statement is we are strongly in favor of the VDA. Of
course, there will be also some structural changes regarding the extension of VDA, et cetera,
which is now being discussed. Where I clearly have a different opinion is technology openness.
And that is for 2 or 3 reasons. If you just look to the world, infrastructure development worldwide
varies widely. So that means that how fast the existing infrastructure will be available for purely
electric driving all over the globe as a single solution is something where we really differ. And I
personally differ. There are also countries who are betting on hydrogen. And it may be you won't
sell any car if you don't have any hydrogen car in the fleet. So that means that technology
openness is really a delicate subject. And the third point is that we will have further need for
discussion, of course, this afternoon.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
And the third topic, I already was waiting for this, when I can really play the ball crosswise, for FC
Bayern Munich and possible sponsoring. Pieter Nota.
A - `Pieter A. J. Nota, Member of Management Board `
Okay, I would like to embed this question in our brand strategy for the BMW brand last year. We
invested a lot of power into a sharpening of the brand identity. And we were quite successful in
doing so. And of course, this includes also our big model offensive, our marketing communication
strategy. And this also fits nicely in -- with the partnership with FC Bayern Munich. We -- there are
certain talks already going on. But there is, however, no signature under the agreement. So that is
why I can't mention any numbers here. But let me give you some numbers anyway regarding the
performance side. FC Bayern Munich, with almost 300,000 members, is the worldwide largest
sports club. But it's even more important, more than 650 million people worldwide are actually
interested in Bayern Munich. And that would, of course, have -- is offering a higher -- a very high
social media effect. Out of the 650 million, only 135 million can be seen in China already, there
are also many people in the United States. So it certainly means that this could be a very
reasonable partnership for the whole world, both BMW and Bayern Munich representing
happiness and performance of -- and the culture of performance. But again, presently, there is no
signed agreement yet in place.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Mr. Peter wants to add something.
A - `Nicolas Peter, CFO & Member of Management Board `
And all that is, of course, not making nervous the financial -- the CFO, because that's something
which is making available within marketing. And there, you can see the numbers as well.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Thank you. (Ralph Miller) and now -- `Kosei Fukao, Analyst, Unknown from Nikkei. Let's start with Ralph Miller .
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Unknown
My question has been answered already. Thank you,.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental AffairsThen the next one is my colleague from Nikkei. Kosei?
Q - `Kosei Fukao, Analyst, Unknown
So I would like to ask about Brexit again. So in case of no-deal Brexit, you suggested that
production shift of MINI and BMW engines from U.K. to the Continental Europe. So, would be an
option. So you said you are flexible, yes. But of course, it's not so easy at all. So could you tell us
how serious you are? And if you would really make these actions happen, would it cost more than
EUR 1 billion?
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Thank you. `Oliver Zipse, Head of Production & Member of Management Board will give the answer.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Head of Production & Member of Management Board `
Well you are addressing a very important question which touches upon business judgment. Now
let me split this into 3 parts. First of all, we are talking about short-term things which may happen.
It's all subjunctive. So we all do not know what's going to happen. And I think as a group in the
production network, we have almost prepared perfectly. We did everything one can do at all
regarding an interruption of production in April up to an adjustment of IT systems, which then will
be prepared for transiting the borders. Also regarding the documentation of the origin of supply
chains, we did a -- we made a lot of efforts. All that preparation has been completed. On the
technical side, we have a lower -- 2-digit-million amount which we spent on that. Now we have to
wait and see what's going to happen. In the case of a hard Brexit, we certainly are expecting
certain uncertainty in the supply chain system. But we don't think this is going to be sustainable.
We expect a maximum 4 to 6 weeks of certain uncertainty period. And after that, it will calm
down. This is our present judgment. What may happen later regarding tariffs, the question is also
will this be a 0%? 5%? Or in line with WTO, 10%? If you assume a low level of between 0% and
5%, the business model of MINI would not be dramatically affected because we should not forget
that the U.K. market is a big market for the MINI, more than 46,000 vehicles have been sold last
year -- or have been produced in Oxford and remain on the island. And for long-term orientation,
there should come much more serious issues in order to think of basically new positioning.
Presently, the 4 factories we have, which is Oxford, Goodwood, Swindon as the press factory and
(Hams Hall) for motor -- of our engines, are very stable for a simple reason because we need
those capacities and capacities can't be created overnight. Otherwise, as mentioned before, if
we think of -- if you use all the opportunities of our flexible production network in order to
respond to such a situation. And I think -- but the most important thing is Brexit. Yes. Although
people will still love this product and will continue to buy this fantastic product.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Thank you. The next is Mr. (Morgan Herman) and (Fulka Koort).
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Unknown
Three questions from my side. And first of all, could you tell me, Mr. Krüger, how you see the
opportunities for an electric modular kit together with Daimler? What you think about the
conventional side, you've already told us. But what about the electric engines? Could you assume
a cooperation there? Then the question, simple figures, your EBIT margin, including China,
including the Chinese business. Last year, you said you would have to add 1percentage point to
this. So would it then be 8.2 to 7.2. Is that still true? On the third question, what about your CO2
fleet emissions for 2018, maybe also in comparison to 2017. And what your aim is for this year?A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of Management Board & CEO
Okay, regarding the Daimler questions, at this point, to once again sort all this. Mr. Fröhlich
mentioned it before. There are 3 elements and no more than those 3 currently. The first of all,
we have the mobility services, which we've clustered with the 5 verticals, the 5 joint ventures.
Then Mr. Schwarzenbauer mentioned that we've just started with this. We're developing the
business plans, we're optimistic. But right -- still right at the beginning. Then we have the
cooperation regarding generation 2 of autonomous driving. And then we have what we call the
industrial modular kit. Those are different elements and those could be components, mechanical
components. But also other parts. That is an ongoing cooperation. But there are 2 topics which
are new in the cooperation with Daimler which need some development. And that is what we
want to focus on. So the industrial modular kit, that topic has existed for quite some time. We're
in a dialogue where we look where are synergies for both sides. But those are the core topics of
our cooperation for the time being.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Nicolas?
A - `Nicolas Peter, CFO & Member of Management Board `
Well the statement from the past year still holds true. So we would be at around 8.1% EBIT margin
if we had included the Chinese business at equity. But that underlines 2 points quite well from my
point of view. First of all, against the complex environment, we had a strong year in 2018. And
secondly, it shows the correctness of our decision to increase our share in the Chinese joint
venture from -- in the future to 75%.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Then the third question, CO2 fleet emissions, 2018 compared to the previous year, Klaus
Fröhlich.
A - `Klaus Froehlich, Member of the Board of Management `
So let me start by saying that we are still leading in competitive -- in the competition since 1995.
We've gone down 42% in our CO2 emissions, which means that on average, we have diesel --
that we run diesel cars with 4.9 liters and gasoline engines with 6.9 liters. And in absolute terms,
we've stated 128 grams of CO2. So we didn't see an increase compared to some of our
competitors. So we've remained flat in spite of the fact that we had a serious reduction of the
diesel volume that needed to be compensated for. Now it's been announced before that over
the course -- and you're certainly considering the CO2 values for 2020, '21. And for this reason,
we plan on a PHEV offensive or initiative, which will offer us great opportunities in different
markets. And we're the only manufacturer who's able to do this because the PHEV is an integral
part of our architectures. And therefore, we can ramp up PHEV variance or include PHEV variance
quickly into our production processes. And that's why we stick to our goals that we will keep the
EU regulations for the overall fleet of 95 grams. Looking further into the future, 2030, as was
mentioned, that will only be possible through a significant penetration of pure e-mobility BEVs
and PHEV with long ranges. And we're prepared for this. I mean, in the voluntary commitment of
2008, we were the only company who stuck to these figures. And we're still on plan to fulfill all
these regulations.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental AffairsThank you very much. Then (Fulka Koort) and then we will come to another colleague from China.
Fulka Koort , please?
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Unknown
Okay, now we've heard a lot about PERFORMANCE > NEXT. And I would now like to focus on
performance now, the M GmbH, which creates cars with strong margins, we haven't heard
anything about M. Now we heard about certainly stronger emission regulations. And also for
2030, when it gets much more dramatic. So is it even possible to have these high-performance
cars to cross these emission thresholds? Or will the M GmbH be history by that time?
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of Management Board & CEO
First of all, you talked about NOW. Yes. The M GmbH, over the past three years, has had a
fantastic growth story, not just in volume growth. But also something that the CFO is delighted
about. We had a significant increase in the contribution to the result. So M is absolutely -- it's an
absolute factor in all the areas that we are involved in. Power (plug-ins), highly efficient drivetrain
concepts. Water injection, for example, was a pilot project at M. So M has all the technologies
available. So that also in 40 years' time, it will still be the emotional top of the BMW brand
experience. While the high engine speeds, we haven't had first quite some time. But we still have
high performance, which can be reflected in all kinds of technologies. And that's exactly what we
are doing. And that's why you can assume that the emotional levels we've reached with the
current M cars will also be at least kept in the future. And you know me, I'm interested in always
topping this.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
So a clear statement here. Now I would ask our colleague from China, (Tsin Hao).
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Unknown
I have a question about the transformation of BMW. You mentioned that BMW is going to
transform from a car manufacturer to a tech company and a premium mobility service provider.
So my question is, is production -- smart production still the core competency of BMW? And how
we can interpret the underlying meaning of this transformation for BMW?
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
(foreign language) Fröhlich.
A - `Klaus Froehlich, Member of the Board of Management `
You've mentioned an important point. Securing our core business and selling automotives or
leasing automotives, already in the past years, has led to the fact that the F&E ratio in the past
year, that was already mentioned by Mr. Peter, that we've invested in many digital technologies,
artificial intelligence, through highly agile software creation processes, autonomous driving,
connected vehicle towards 5G. And you can see that these competencies can also be used in a
broad way in the mobility sector. And that we are a cooperation partner that many are interested
in. As you come from China, I would like to talk specifically about the Chinese situation. In China,
our footprint on research and development has been massively expanded, first in the sense of in
China, for China when it comes to products. But also through services. So you have to quickly fulfill
the consumer requirements. But we also see that, technologically, China, also in the supplier
market, is turning more and more into a highly -- into a very important partner, that we will havemobility, where China, with the NEV mandate, has the clear economic goal of leadership. We see
the same topics also when it comes to smart cities and intelligent connected vehicles and
autonomous driving. That is why partnering, be it our license for autonomous driving in Shanghai,
in the city of Shanghai; or our membership on the (Apollo board); and many other activities with
Baidu, Alibaba and Tencent, are of the utmost importance to us. So also in this field in China, we
want to be present. And because this is where the market consolidates itself when it comes to
autonomous driving. So we want to be there. We have a research center in Shanghai. And that is
our development hub for our Chinese partners for me.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Okay, next up, we have `Markus Fasse, Analyst, Unknown and then (Dietmar Krupa).
Q - `Markus Fasse, Analyst, Unknown
I would like to come back to the discussion we had in the recent days around VDA and the
promotion of electric cars. Let me just say at the beginning, what are you expecting in the future
from VDA? What is this association supposed to do for you? There obviously are different ideas
within the association. So perhaps, you can tell us what your own ideas are for the future of that
association. And tonight, you are going to have a meeting with your colleagues from Stuttgart
and Wolfsburg, where you will discuss promotion of electromobility. I think everybody agrees that
in Germany so far, that has not been channeled correctly. So perhaps you could also tell us about
your ideas. The ideas of Volkswagen have been tabled already. Maybe if you can give us your
ideas on the subject. And in that context, I would like to ask you, you said that diesel last year
went down slightly. Perhaps, could you give us a range, from where to where. And where you are
now in Europe? And one idea of Volkswagen is to, step-by-step, cut diesel subsidies in Europe
and turn them to electric cars. Do you think that this is also a feasible way to divert diesel
subsidies to electric cars?
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of Management Board & CEO
Okay, let's start with the diesel subject. And I will just look it up and then I give you the
information. I mean, the reduction on the -- hit us actually on the CO2 side. But during last weeks,
diesel volumes have stabilized again and the order intake is rather stable. Again. But of course,
diesel engine is a CO2-efficient engine, which is also very good for the CO2 balance sheet. And
we are really firmly supporting that idea. And when you really want to get our opinion on VDA,
number one, I have to repeat, you should be open to technology against a background that
infrastructure may develop differently. There might come -- hydrogen might come in as
alternative. Focusing on just one technology, from our point of view, is not the right approach.
Second subject is VDA is an association which has to find compromises for joint direction. And so
tonight, we certainly are going to have a very intensive discussion about that. Where we certainly
agree with others. And BMW Group has done so already in 2013, we actually have been those
who were very much in favor of a bonus for buying. We have a fund of more than EUR 300 million
in Germany which has not been exhausted yet. So promoting infrastructure, promoting electric
vehicles, I'm basically in favor of that. But the segments are the cornerstones where we see the
orientation, first of all; and all the rest should be left to an intensive dialogue, which we certainly
will have tonight. And just wait and see. And you will hear from us.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Okay, let me pass on to Pieter Nota also regarding diesel and Europe.I can tell you that the portion of diesel in Europe in 2018 went down to low -- less than 50%. As
Mr. Krüger has mentioned already, we do see, in some very important markets, that there is
now taking place a certain stabilization again.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Okay. Then let's turn to (Dietmar Krupa). And then a female colleague from China will enter.
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Unknown
I would like to ask you about openness for technology. Fuel cells have not been mentioned at all
today, or just in a marginal side note. Your competitor, Daimler, is now launching a small series of
fuel-cell cars; and your cooperation partner, Toyota, is very active in that field. So what's your take
on that? Are you going to let it do the others or are you waiting for them?
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Well that's a harsh question. So Klaus Fröhlich.
A - `Klaus Froehlich, Member of the Board of Management `
Even though there is a recognizable punchline in these questions, I want to stick to the facts. And
the situation is as follows. Situation of technology openness requires us to be very open also for
the subject of fuel cells because, depending on the decision of regulators or on infrastructure
measures, fuel cells in certain geographical regions may really become an option. So we are well-
positioned for that. We are developing this together with Toyota, generation after generation of
fuel cells. And we certainly will be -- as regards competence and product properties, we are still
in the lead. We also launched a small series based on the 2015 fuel cell generation. As it's the
case in electromobility, where we already are developing the fifth generation, you always have to
know from what point of time technology may be scaled. And fuel-cell drive of the 2015
generation has 20 to 50 -- 15% to 20% more costs than a -- the conventional drives. And we think
that the 2020 generation and 2025 generation will bring the fuel cell to a cost structure which can
be comparable to what an electric drive will cost or what a combustion engine will cost. If you
calculate now, you would calculate with a higher portion of platinum and gold. So this needs to be
tested, of course. But you also will have to be patient and to put this technology to a cost level
where it really can be used. And this will be the case in 2025. Fuel cells moreover, is competing
against battery cell development. Why? A fuel-cell car is nothing but a battery-driven car where
the battery has been cut off and replaced by a permanent charging device, which is called fuel-
cell, where you continuously charge a battery and then you have the hydrogen tank on top. So the
subject of battery cell development as regards energy density is developing at such a race and
space. And we can't even see this going down that, with the same level of freedom from
emissions, the costs for driving performance will also play a role. What we can see is that all
economies of the world are mainly investing in electromobility infrastructure, the probability that
there will be a full-fledged hydrogen infrastructure will be very low. But there are certain fields of
application. And that refers to the Southwest German company you mentioned much more than
BMW, namely, a detailed -- or partial driving inter-cities or long-distance drive, where -- as
compared with electromobility, when you just look at the charging times, it's much quicker to
charge hydrogen than loading a battery. And so from 2025, especially in the utility vehicle
business, there will be a considerable amount of fields of application. And we do foresee an
enormous potential of growth in order to be working in this utility vehicle sector.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of Management Board & CEOLet me just add, the openness to technology which is so important. There may be regulators
where you can't offer any fuel-cell car in your fleet, you will not be able to sell any car of your
production at all. And we had this situation in the world already in the case of other technologies.
So we have to be very much aware of that. If you do not have this technology ready and
marketable, you might even not be able to sell the rest of your fleet. And BMW Group has it for
that reason. And let me clearly state again, this is also your point for openness to technology, you
are actually taking a risk. And it may be a relevant country which will not allow you to sell any cars if
you don't offer this technology.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Thank you very much. Our colleague, (Peng), from Tencent China.
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Unknown
I also have 3 questions. It was mentioned before that up to 2020, you want to introduce
improvement -- or savings of up to EUR 12 billion. Are there any additional measures? Then up to
2021, the -- or by the year 2021, the iNEXT will come onto the market. Are there any information
you could give us about that? Then the third question, digital center, your center will be one of
the largest in Europe. So will you maybe also, globally speaking, searching -- will you be searching
for partners with whom you can cooperate in this context?
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Okay, let me start by answering -- or heading to PERFORMANCE > NEXT and the EUR 12 billion;
the second part then about the iNEXT; and the third part, digital center, will be the largest in
Europe, do we also need a partner for this? So let's start with Mr. Peter on PERFORMANCE >
NEXT.
A - `Nicolas Peter, CFO & Member of Management Board `
Let me just mention once again what we reached, first of all, in 2018, with an EBIT margin slightly
above our guided corridor of 7%. And if you add to this the Chinese business, as we discussed
before, we would be slightly above 8%. The second point, now what have we planned and what
will PERFORMANCE > NEXT pay into? Well we want to get an EBIT margin, again, of 6% to 8% in
the Automotive business due to the exogenous factors that I mentioned before. And then 8% to
10% in our Motorcycle business and on the previous year's level in Financial Services. So the
significant reduction in the net profit of the group was due to technical effects, especially across
some divisional eliminations and other effects. So our plan is that we will save these more than
EUR 12 billion with the 10 initiatives which we've implemented. There will be initiatives that have a
direct effect already in 2019. And especially topics such as complexity reductions, which only over
the full time of the period will also have -- haven't showed their full effect.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Thank you very much. Then the question on the iNEXT in more details. And then Mr. Fröhlich will
talk about the center for autonomous driving. Mr. Krüger?
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of Management Board & CEO
Well the iNEXT is a technology carrier for us. And I've mentioned that it's much more than just a
vehicle with 4 wheels. It's about connectivity of the future. So how can customers take their digital
life to a next level and experience it at a high level with BMW? It's about an electric drive for --interior of the future. And my colleague will be talking about autonomous driving. And if I drive
autonomously, I can experience the interior in a completely differently way. And therefore, it has
to be shaped in a way that's convenient to the customer that lets them experience joy. So that
the opportunities that are being created by autonomous driving can also be used on the interior.
We will offer Level 3 autonomous driving with this in 2021. And we'll have a pilot fleet of Level 4
and Level 5 cars, that is to say we will experience this. And we'll have the Level 3 Series start for
autonomous driving, Level 3. And then gain our experiences on Level 4 and 5 and use this then
as a technology bearer that we can then use the technology in others -- models and series as
well. So the i4 is a fundamental project for all these technologies I've just mentioned.
A - `Klaus Froehlich, Member of the Board of Management `
Let me come to your third question, the digital center Europe. Well it's a highly dynamic world
there. I mean, we're growing in these digital topics extremely fast. We don't just have the
compass for autonomous driving which you opened 1.5 years ago at Unterschleissheim. And in
the meantime, more than 1,000 BMW associates and employees of other companies work there.
Then when it comes to software development, not just for the classic product. But also for
corporate IT, we've had an increase of software skills in Portugal, for example, in a joint venture.
And China, even today, is my second-largest development center in Shenyang, Peking and
Shanghai with a focus on digital topics in Shanghai. So even today, we have a team of more than
100 employees of software application and artificial intelligence experts in Shanghai exclusively
for the topic of autonomous driving in China. And they're also responsible for the fleets that we
run there in this context. In China, we've had the quickest growth when it comes to digital topics.
So a digital center Europe probably won't be the main topic in my presentation in five years' time.
Then China will be a very important digital site which doesn't just do development for China but
for the world as a whole.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of Management Board & CEO
Thank you very much. I would like to accompany -- add to this that we can experience today, that
the digital behavior of our Chinese customers is completely different from customers in other
areas of the world. So what's being expected when it comes to digitalization in the vehicles as a
purchase reason or a nonpurchase reason is much more than in other regions of the world.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Okay, we still have some 5 minutes left. I would now like to call up our Italian colleague, (Isabella
Bufacchi).
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Unknown
My question in English. So my question will be how important is the Italian market for you? But I
would expand it and go in more on the importance of Continental Europe, excluding Brexit. But
also Germany. How strategic it is for you? Or do you see that Europe is just a bunch of rules that
are piling up a bit against the business of auto?
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Thank you very much, (Isabella). Peter?
A - `Pieter A. J. Nota, Member of Management Board `
Well thank you very much. Europe is -- and you could see this in our figures in the presentation bycourse, we have a high market share in large market. And if we leave out our home market of
Germany, then we are still the #1 in the premium market in Europe. So I can confirm that Europe is
a highly important market. We continue to invest into our brand in Europe, of course, also to the
right drive technologies. Hybrid technology, for example, is definitely part of that. And Europe is
and will remain a very important sales market for us.
A - `Harald Krüger, Chairman of Management Board & CEO
And globally speaking, I mean, we have a balanced -- we aim at a balanced sales distribution.
China right now has the biggest growth. But the United States and Europe are still very important
markets for us as well to get a balanced situation. And we want to gain market shares in all global
regions. This is what we're doing in China, this is what we're doing in the U.S.. But also in Europe.
In a very competitive market, we want to gain market share. This is a clear goal that we have.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Okay, then I now have (Armin Simne).
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Unknown
Well I would like to ask a follow-up about battery cell production. Mr. Fröhlich, you said you know
how to develop and produce a battery cell. But it hasn't become clear for me why they want to
drive this ahead, whether you will apply for government funds for this. Then a question regarding
the e-drive train or the e-engine. In the past, whenever you developed a new combustion engine
and brought it on the market, then you presented all the performance data. Now you have the
fifth generation of the e-motor and the e-drivetrain. And I've never heard anything about
performance data in this regard. So how should I understand this? Then an add-on regarding the
development regarding the sponsoring of FC Bayern Munich. Audi clearly stated that they want to
go through with their sponsoring agreement until 2025. So Mr. Nota, could you imagine buying
out Audi of this contract?
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Okay. Thank you. I think we'll start with Klaus Fröhlich and then Pieter Nota.
A - `Klaus Froehlich, Member of the Board of Management `
Regarding battery cell manufacturing, this is -- what do we do with our expertise? Well we use it
even today so that battery cells that get delivered to us will be refined into BMW cells. So we are
part of the development of battery cells. It's not a commodity market for us, to clearly state this.
And we've also applied currently at the Federal Ministry of the economy for -- applied to get
some funds for the massive buildup that we have in this technology. But there's one point I think
is extremely important when it comes to cell -- battery cell manufacturing that is left aside
recklessly, from my point of view, by many German players in this regard. Whenever a
manufacturer enters into a large-scale battery cell production, the business model that you have
with another manufacturer, for example, from China and Korea, that you develop battery cells
together with them and that you get access to them in the first place, that will end at this point.
No matter how many are battery cells you will produce in Europe, due to the regulatory
requirements in China, you will need someone in China to deliver competitive battery cells for us
and to develop them together with us. That's a point you have to take into account. And the risk
is if you have a very relevant battery development in-house or a huge joint venture, that this
would lead to the fact that you would get negative effects in some of the other markets, which
might not just endanger the result. But also jobs in Germany. And that hasn't been mentionedenough in the discussions. So of course, we want to drive ahead Europe as a production site. But
for the same reason, we want to seize all of our expertise and know-how, because as we've
mentioned before, this isn't -- nowhere else present as much as with BMW. But the basic
condition for this is that we need to be a reliable partner for such an investor. And to play this
role. And that there is a very reason for this, which from my point of view, should also be
mentioned, in the discussions in Germany. Then of course, e-data, the performance data on e-
engines. Of course, I'm a developer myself and an engineer. And what's new there is the topic of
the overall efficiency that -- in a way that, at some point, rare earths and the dependency on
neodymium and other rare earth can be reduced. So for 15 years, we've driven this ahead. And
the positive piece of news is that with the generation 5, for the first time, we will have e-engines
free of rare earths that still have the same degree of efficiency. Because the degree of the
efficiency of an e-motor is calculated when you add it to the cost of the battery, the size of the
battery. So e-engines have to have a high -- have to offer high efficiency. And at the same time,
the classical conditions, like performance density, what volume or how many kilogram you need
per kilowatt. Those will be driven ahead just as well. And they're also available and I can offer this
data to you as a follow-up. And there is one thing that we have, that special series developers
and series producers have developed the e-engine for the formula e, where when it comes to
tolerances to manufacturing concepts. We need to fulfill extreme requirements also when it
comes to performance density and efficiency. And our series developers have been able to play
a major role. And they even were able to win a race with the -- with our drivetrain in this race
series. And we aim for the emotional leadership in this industry in this regard as well.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Okay. Then Pieter Nota once again on FC Bayern Munich.
A - `Pieter A. J. Nota, Member of Management Board `
Yes. The relationship between FC Bayern Munich and our competitor is between those 2 parties.
Buying someone out of the contract is not under discussion. And one point on our position in
Europe in 2018, we gained segment shares in Europe. So -- and Germany is our home market. But
also in the rest of Europe. And that also remains our aim for 2019.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Okay, now the 2 last questions from (Thilo Voss) and (Robert Tosa) from Slovakia. Thilo Voss ,
maybe we can sum this up?
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Unknown
Just again. Two question regarding battery cell production. You answered part of it already, Mr.
Fröhlich. But I still would like to know, the Federal Ministry of the economy provided EUR 1 billion
for development of the (license) region. The competitors have already jumped on that
bandwagon. And you did not. Do -- are you expecting some market disadvantages from that?
And the second question is it's not only going to be used for cell production. But also for R&D.
And if your competitors are on board and you are not, this might also mean a strategic
disadvantage for you. And a very short question regarding the 2 Series, the new 2 Series, I would
like to know where you are going to make this car.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Klaus?A - `Klaus Froehlich, Member of the Board of Management `
Just very simply, just in order to avoid misunderstandings, this EUR 1 billion is not provided for the
(license) region. But for promotion of battery cell development and production as a whole, first
point. The second point, I already made a note that we will take part in these awards. We also
filed 2 applications on the subject, where we applied for funding of development of battery cells.
And this means that I can't see any disadvantage. On the contrary, the Federal Ministry of the
economy and also the Chancellor in Germany were really pleased to see that, especially with the
different German players, BMW really came on board and put in some momentum. The next
question was about the 2 Series production. It will be in the German network. But all the rest is still
confidential. You will need something for another punchline on a different day.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
The last question, (Robert Tosa).
Q - `Unidentified Participant, Analyst, Unknown
Thank you very much. Just the 2 short questions. Whilst your company decide to build a new
production plant in Hungary, is it possible to say which models do you plan to produce there? And
why was the Hungary a better choice than Slovakia?
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
`Oliver Zipse, Head of Production & Member of Management Board.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Head of Production & Member of Management Board `
Yes, up to now we have not announced which vehicle will be made there. There is still some time
to go because it will take some years until the factory will really be working. I think regarding the
reasons for choosing Hungary as a site, those reasons have been communicated sufficiently. Just
to sum it up, we are extending our production network inside Europe because we are strongly
convinced that Europe will continue to be a growth market. And in particular, in our global value-
adding chain, we want to balance it out between Europe, China and U.S. And we want to be able
to produce all the big Series models. And the choice of Hungary. And in fact, it's the East of
Hungary, in many components, in the flexibility of working hours, wage costs, qualification of staff,
quality of life for the staff and qualification, they really were in the lead. And that's why we
decided for that site.
A - `Maximilian Schöberl, EVP of Corporate & Governmental Affairs
Now dear colleagues, thank you very much. That was the balance sheet press conference of
BMW AG. Thank you for coming. Thank you for your questions. And of course, it goes without
saying that we invite you for lunch now. And some of our board members will also join you for
lunch. Thank you for having us. Thank you.