Y 2019 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental Affairs
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to our Analyst and Investor Conference. This
year, some things are different. First of all, due to the Coronavirus, we are meeting online only.
Second, we will not have a printed addition of our annual report. It will be available on our
website. And third, our new Chairman, `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer is here for the very first time. I would now like
to welcome `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board of Management of BMW AG. And I would also
like to welcome `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board, Board Member for Finance.
About today's agenda. We will start with a short statement by Oliver about the Coronavirus. Then
Nicolas will inform you about our financial performance in 2019 and the outlook for 2020.
Afterwards, Oliver will explain how we address current and future challenges. This will be
followed by a Q&A. After Oliver and Nicolas have spoken, you will be able to ask your questions
via telephone as you know from our quarterly calls.
Ladies and gentlemen, before we start, please note, that this conference is subject to the
disclaimer, regarding forward-looking statements. You will find this in the Investor Presentation
material referred to in this conference. Please also refer to the report on risks and opportunities,
which you will find in our most recent Annual Report. The BMW group does not assume any
obligation to update these forward-looking statements or the information.
And now ladies and gentlemen, I would like to hand over to Oliver.
`Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen.
In times like these, we need responsible behavior in society. We find ourselves in highly unusual
times. All of us are personally affected. Medical experts and scientists are giving clear directions
as to what we need to do to slow and contain the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. The nextfew weeks will be very critical. Many countries have taken drastic measures, which we support. In
this situation, as a company, we have diverse responsibilities to protect our employees and their
families as best as we can to support our society in its fight against the virus, and at the same
time, to maintain our operational capabilities and prepare for what comes after the virus.
We've made far-reaching decisions affecting our daily business. Many people are focusing on
their health and well-being and what is most essential right now. In light of this, many dealerships
in Europe have already closed. Demand for cars, like many other goods will decrease significantly.
Our production is geared towards sales development forecasts. And we are adjusting our
production volumes flexibly in line with demand.
Starting yesterday, we began to shut down our European and Rosslyn automotive plants, which
will close by the end of this week. The interruption of production for these plants is currently
planned for four weeks until April 19. The BMW Group has highly flexible and effective work time
instruments. This applies to both direct areas like production, but also in indirect areas such as
administration.
Now we will reap the benefits of this. We will continue to ensure our ability to operate as a
company. At the same time, we want to reduce the risk of infection for our employees. We have
therefore put a comprehensive package of measures into effect.
The BMW Group knows how to handle difficult situations. We have proven this many, many times
in the past. Even in the current situation, we remain cautiously confident. There will be a time
during the Coronavirus and there will be a time after the Coronavirus. That is why we have
decided, today to give you an outlook of everything we have planned. But now Nicholas Peter will
present the figures for the financial year 2019 as well our forecast for the current year 2020,
which we have adjusted at short notice to the current situation.
Peter, please.
`Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. As Oliver already mentioned, we find ourselves in an
highly unusual situation. Although we are well underway in many operational aspects., the
measures regarding the Coronavirus will impact our business significantly in the current year.
Short-term, we are focusing especially on stabilizing liquidity and our result. I will say more about
this in the forecast at the end of my speech. Basically the following applies. We are highly
adaptable. Our fast and consistent actions make us stand out. Our strategic long-term goals for a
stable business environment have not changed. We are targeting an EBIT margin of between 8%
and 10% in the Automotive segment and free cash flow of more than EUR3 billion.
Let's take a look at the previous business year. In a challenging business environment, the BMW
Group is actively driving the transformation of the industry. In the financial year 2019, we
demonstrated once again that we can deliver a strong performance. With new important models,
we improved from quarter-to-quarter as promised.
As planned, we significantly expanded our market share in the luxury segment. This gives us a
sound financial basis for funding our electro offensive. At the same time, we continue to set all
levers in motion as we strive to meet our ambitious long-term profitability targets. Our steadily
improving performance during the financial year 2019 shows we are on the right track. As
expected, the fourth quarter of 2019 was stronger than the third quarter. In fact, in terms of
revenues it was the strongest quarter in our history.In the Automotive segment, we continued to improve both our operating result and our
profitability. Several factors contributed to this; first, vehicle sales posted another increase.
Second, targeted expansion of our portfolio in the luxury segment significantly improved our
vehicle mix. Our young and very attractive product portfolio is also reflected in better pricing. And
finally, our continuous efficiency improvements are also having a significant impact. Despite
continuing high expenses for research and development as well as an increased manufacturing
cost due to regulatory requirements, the EBIT margin in the Automotive segment was 6.8%.
Ladies and gentlemen, as previously announced, we steadily improved our performance after a
first half year that was challenging as expected. Group revenues climbed 7.6% in 2019 to more
than EUR104 billion and exceeded EUR100 billion for the first time. This increase was driven in
particular by improvements in volumes, mix, and pricing. Adjusted for currency translation, effects
revenues increased by 6.1%.
As previously announced, earnings before tax were significantly lower than the previous year at
EUR7.12 billion. In April, the European Commission provided us with a statement of objections,
relating to its antitrust allegations. In accordance with IFRS standards, we recognized a provision
of almost EUR1.4 billion in connections with the proceedings in the first quarter of the year. This
had a significant negative impact on earnings.
Consequently, the EBT margin for the financial year 2019 was 6.8%. As expected, the financial
result also saw a significant decrease. The earnings contribution of our Chinese joint venture,
BBA, rose significantly by almost EUR180 million to EUR918 million. This was offset by the earnings
of the YOUR NOW companies, value adjustments in connections with their realignment and a net
interest result that was around EUR330 million lower due to positive one-time effects in the
previous year.
In 2018, the acquisition of DriveNow shares from SIXT had a positive effect of EUR209 million. Net
profit of the BMW Group for 2019 totaled EUR5.02 billion.
Ladies and gentlemen, capital expenditure mainly for property, plant and equipment rose to
EUR5.65 billion in 2019. This reflects the recognition of right-of -use assets in the balance sheet
for the first time according to IFRS 16. The overall, CapEx ratio for the financial year 2019 was
5.4%. This was slightly higher year-on-year.
Our research and development spending is also clearly focused on gearing the BMW Group
towards the future. For us, the transformation hasn't just begun. We are already in the middle of
it. In 2019, R&D costs according to IFRS increased by around EUR630 million to almost EUR6 billion
due in particular to higher amortization and a lower ratio of capitalized development cost. The
R&D ratio according to the German Commercial Code was 6.2%. This was lower than the
previous year's high as already announced.
Ladies and gentlemen, despite numerous headwinds and a lower financial result, the BMW Group
still posted very solid earnings for 2019. The Board of Management and Supervisory Board will
therefore propose a dividend of EUR2.50 per share of common stock and EUR2.52 per share of
preferred stock. This represents a payout ratio of 32.8%, which is higher than last year and
remains within our target range of 30% to 40%. Subject to the approval of the Annual General
Meeting, the dividend payout will total EUR1.65 billion.
Let's turn now to developments in the individual segments, starting with the Automotive
segment. Segment revenues climbed 6.8% to EUR91.68 billion, benefiting from positive model
mix effects and strong business in China. Deliveries to customers topped 2.5 million vehicles fordue to the provision referred to. The EBIT margin of 4.9% was within our adjusted target range.
Without the effect of the provision, the margin would be 6.4%.
Let's take a look at the EBIT bridge from the previous year. The greatly improved product mix had
a positive impact in 2019. Specifically, the new X7 and 8 Series and the updated X5 are proving
very popular with customers. We were also able to improve pricing slightly in key markets.
Research and development expenses were over EUR600 million higher than the previous year.
Higher manufacturing costs resulting from regulatory requirements also dampened earnings as
did the planned increase in depreciation and amortization.
We also experienced headwinds as expected from the negative development of around EUR650
million in currency and commodity prices. We were able to offset much of these headwinds with
ongoing efficiency measures and optimization of our sales activities. However, this was
counteracted by the provision for antitrust allegations included in other operating income and
expenses.
Ladies and gentlemen, we have once again set clear targets for 2020. Profitability and free cash
flow are high priorities for steering the company. All measures and initiatives under our ongoing
Performance NEXT program are geared in this direction. On the sales side, in material costs and
indirect purchasing, we will continue to work on levers. As far as personnel costs are concerned,
we have successfully taken measures early , and in the recent months, have agreed on the long-
term package of measures with the Works Council. An additional tailwind resulted from changes
to the pension scheme for employees in the U.S.
With regard to free cash flow, we are specifically concentrating on capital expenditure and
consistent management of all aspects of working capital.
Ladies and gentlemen, despite the continued high level of investments in future technologies
and lower net profit, free cash flow in the Automotive segment remains at a solid level almost on
a par with last year at EUR2.57 billion.
Our liquidity also developed very favorably in 2019. Adequate liquidity reserves ensure we are
always able to take action and safeguard our independence as a company. At the end of the
year, our liquidity totaled EUR17.4 billion. This sends clear message to our investors and lays a
strong foundation for further growth in our financial services business.
Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the Financial Services segment. Pre-tax earnings
reflected the positive business development and rose 6.0% to reach a new all-time high of
EUR2.27 billion.
The return on equity of 15.0% was on a par with last year as forecast, and once again, exceeded
our minimum requirement of at least 14%. Despite sustained political and economic uncertainty,
the risk situation in the segment stayed stable throughout the past year.
We make comprehensive provisions for our main business risks on an ongoing basis. The current
developments regarding the Coronavirus will, in our estimation, likely impact the risk situation in
2020. Based on current assessments, we continue to be appropriately hedged against residual
value and credit risks.
Ladies and gentlemen, let's turn now to the motorcycle segment. Deliveries saw solid growth as
planned with over 175,000 units sold. This was our ninth consecutive sales record. Pre-taxsegment earnings totaled EUR187 million, an increase of EUR18 million compared with the
previous year. The EBIT margin was 8.2% and once again within our target range of 8% to 10%.
Finally, let's look at earnings in the other entities segment and inter segment eliminations. The
combined result was around EUR146 million lower than the previous year. This development is
partly the result of fluctuations in the market value of the interest rate derivatives we use to
hedge our financial services portfolio. Inter segment eliminations were also affected by the
growth in our new leasing business.
Ladies and gentlemen, through continuous optimization of our core business, we are
systematically solidifying our financial strengths. We are growing in the right segments, setting
clear priorities and funding the continuing ramp up of emission free mobility. In 2020, we will
again make high upfront investments in further development of e-mobility, autonomous driving
and vehicle connectivity. We are also implementing the measures needed to meet European
CO2 regulations. The current uncertainty surrounding future worldwide developments impacted
by the Coronavirus makes it very difficult to provide an accurate forecast for 2020.
According to the latest developments, our guidance for the full year assumes that the sales
situation will deteriorate in all major markets. Here is the assumption that the sales situation in all
markets will begin to normalize again after a few weeks. Possible long-term impact as a
consequence of the spreading of the Coronavirus and the resulting volatility of financial markets
cannot currently be estimated and are therefore, not included in our forecast.
Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a look at the forecast for the individual KPIs. With our very young
attractive model lineup, we are in an excellent position for 2020. Our ongoing efforts to improve
both on the cost and the performance side will make an important contribution to earnings. As
the prior year was burdened by the antitrust provision, there will be a positive effect this year in
comparison 2019.
Before the Coronavirus, we expected Group earnings before tax to increase significantly.
However, due to the impact of the worldwide spreading of the virus, we now expect group
earnings before tax to decrease significantly. The number of employees will remain on a par with
2019 for the current year.
From reporting year 2020, only core employees and employees with limited contracts will be
included in the figures reported. Due to the availability of new models like the 8 Series, the X5,
the X6, X7, the new 3 Series and the new 1 Series we originally expected deliveries to customers
in the Automotive segment to increase slightly over last year.
However, the spreading of the Coronavirus has stopped growth in vehicle sales worldwide. As
the number of infected people continues to rise in all world regions, especially in Europe and
North America at the moment, we now expect our worldwide deliveries to decrease significantly
from last year. Our original planning called for an EBIT margin of between 6% and 8% in the
Automotive segment for 2020.
Due to the deterioration in the sales situation in China and an already visible similar development
in other world regions, we anticipate a debiting effect especially in the first half year. This will
therefore impact the EBIT margin for the full year by about 4 percentage points. As a result, in
our current planning, we now expect the EBIT margin to be in the range of 2% to 4%.
The revised earnings expectations will also have an effect on free cash flow in the current year.
Originally, we expected a free cash flow of more than EUR3 billion. Our current assessment for2020 indicates a positive free cash flow generation, a possible cash outflow in connection with
the antitrust allegations by the European Commission is not included in this assessment.
In the motorcycles segment, we are planning for a slight decrease in deliveries. We expect the
EBIT margin to be in the range of 6% to 8%. In the Financial Services segment, we now expect a
slight decrease in return on equity, mainly due to higher risk provision.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are monitoring the situation regarding the Coronavirus very closely
and we will continue to update you on the precise impact on our business. In particular, in light of
the challenges I talked about, we will continue to focus on profitability and strict working capital
management. Both are key to being able to invest independently in new technologies and
opportunities.
I would have really enjoyed meeting all of you today in person. So we could discuss everything
face to face. However in these times, it is not possible, but I'm really looking forward to further
discuss over the phone later on.
With that, let me hand over to our Chairman of the Board. Oliver, the stage is yours. Thank you.
`Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Ladies and gentlemen, the topic of the Coronavirus is currently dominating all areas of our lives.
However, we must also think ahead to the time that comes afterwards. The BMW Group is a
company that thinks long-term and acts responsibly. And I firmly believe that the far-reaching
technological transformation and social changes currently taking place will actually strengthen our
business model.
Despite the Coronavirus, our ambition is clear, to emerge as a winner and driver of this
transformation. Profitability remains essential for capitalizing on future opportunities. And this is
what we aim to do. We will invest more than EUR30 billion in research and development by 2025.
We firmly believe we can continue to drive transformation and offer appropriate solutions for our
customers.
I took over as Chairman of the Board of Management seven months ago. I've spoken with a lot of
people, since then, associates, peers and colleagues within the industry, journalists, political
representatives and of course, with you investors and financial Analysts. Many people, are
uncertain about the future prospects of our industry. And in actual fact, the challenges are
immense. For one thing, because each of these challenges is immense in itself. And also because
a wide range of different demands must be managed well at the same time. But being successful
is not just about mastering individual technologies perfectly.
The most important aspect that is crucial to long-term success at the highest level on top of
everything else, is our focus cannot be on a singular approach. We need to meet diverse and
very complex requirements at the same time under constantly changing conditions. This, if you
like is the central management challenge of the 21st century, a good example of this is how we
determine our strategy.
On the one hand, our business environment is shaped by stable trends. For example, the growth
forecast for the global premium segment up to 2030 or faster uptake of e-mobility and other
historically important drivers for car ownership like household size, income, and location.
And on the other hand, there's uncertain developments in the world, which require a swift and
quick response such as trade conflicts, Brexits or now the impact of the Coronavirus. Defining ourThe Board of management has geared the BMW Group strategy towards the relevant areas of
future significance and adjusted some core elements already. We have defined a clear position
for ourselves. What does the BMW Group stand for? We take on business and environmental,
and societal challenges at the same time. At the BMW Group, we continue to chart our own
course. We do things the way we think they should be done based on our own conclusions. And
we tackle challenges early on because we believe in delivering instead of just talking.
What are the most dominant questions facing our industry? And what sets exactly the BMW
Group apart? How can we continue to lead in a fiercely competitive car market? Our vehicles are
more in demand than ever. In 2019, not long ago, we posted record sales for the ninth
consecutive year with new all-time highs for our BMW Rolls-Royce and BMW Motorrad brands. But
how can we meet strict CO2 targets, specifically in Europe? Today, we are one of the world's
leading car companies in the fields of electrification. In 2019, we delivered more than 146,000
electric vehicles and plug-in hybrids to our customers. By the end of the year, we had more than
0.5 million electrified vehicles on the road already.
And now we are winning over customers with attractive new models. For example, the MINI
Cooper SE was released just a few days ago. We've already received more than 8,000 orders.
Most of the people, who placed these orders did not previously drive a MINI. How can we
manage the coexistence of different technology in an efficient and intelligent manner? We are
installing modular, scalable and intelligent architectures and our plants. And because of this, we
are able to scale production quickly and flexibly to meet demand.
We currently build electrified vehicles at 11 of our plants already. Customers will always get a true
BMW or MINI, whichever drivetrain they choose. What is the right way to steer employee numbers
through this transformation? We will keep employee numbers stable. We are qualifying staff for
our new tasks on an ongoing basis. One in three employees has been trained in e-mobility. That
adds up to more than 46,000. Where can we find IT talents and software know-how? The BMW
is one of the biggest IT employees in Germany. Some 7,200 employees work in IT and software
alone and another 5,600 employees at the company were trained in data analytics.
In 2018, we established the joint venture, Critical Techworks in Portugal with more than 600
employees, to secure exactly these skills. How do we maintain long-term profitability? We
launched the program performance NEXT, back in 2017, almost three years ago. This will leverage
at least EUR12 billion, at least EUR12 billion in efficiency potential by the end of 2022.
The BMW Group still has the best long-term ratings of any European car company. How can we
offset regional fluctuations and stay efficient? Our production network of 31 locations in 15
countries is highly flexible. We are located close to customers and can take therefore advantage
of potential for growth in these markets at short notice. Where do we get better results from?
And how do we secure the raw materials needed for e-mobility? We have long-term supply
contracts with CATL and Samsung SDI.
Starting this year, we will be sourcing the key raw materials, mainly cobalt and lithium, ourselves
and making them available to our suppliers. In a nutshell, we are about delivering long-term viable
solutions. We know what we are doing and why we are doing it. I believe the decisive factor in
securing our future business is being able to further develop the highly complex and digitally
connected car to benefit customers and meet changing society demands. We call this system
integration. Here's a short film to tell you more.
(Video Presentation)Well, the car is the most complex technical overall system you can buy as a customer today.
Today's vehicle manufacturing is less about bending sheet metal, but more about integrating
hard and software to create a harmonious overall driving experience. To achieve this, we
integrate market requirements, regulations and customer requests and technologies.
First, we industrialize and then we scale. All this capability must fit together smoothly and
precisely to the point, and the complexity just keeps on growing. The transformation in the
Automotive industry is taking place amid growing and concurrent requirements. We have the
expertise and experience. It takes to master this rising complexity. We see this as a definite
competitive advantage for us. And all of this, of course, will benefit our customers. The car
enables individual mobility and allows for sphere of privacy like no other mode of transport, very
important today. Customers' mobility demands vary increasingly between different regions of the
world and different countries and also between urban and rural areas.
Different drive technologies will coexist alongside one another into the long-term. Therefore, we
are firmly convinced of this. We don't want to tell our customers what to do. We want to truly
convince them about our approach. And this is what we call the power of choice and this is what
it's all about. The popular BMW X3 is a very good example for this. Starting this year, it will be
able with -- it will be available with four different drivetrain variants, efficient diesel and petrol,
plug-in hybrid and also as the pure electric iX3. We are producing the iX3 in China and exporting
it from there.
We will also offer future model series with different drivetrains. And I can tell you officially today
that our BMW 7 Series flagship will be one of them. The next generation 7 Series will be also
available as petrol, diesel, plug-in hybrid, and as full electric. All drivetrains will be based on a
single architecture.
And on top, the top most powerful 7 Series will be also fully electric. The BMW i4 concept car,
what you see here, is right here on stage. I can confirm again today, the design is very close to
the production model we will release onto the market next year already. The i4, we will we build
at our plant here in Munich. The fully electric i4 and the conventionally powered BMW 4 Series
Gran Coup will come off the same production line. The i4 demonstrates that you cannot divide
our industry into electric cars and cars with conventional engines. Both of them have their place.
The i4 is powered by the fifth generation of our electric drivetrain, which is a completely new unit
we developed ourselves. Our electric engines, no longer need rare earth. The i4 is just a taste of
what is to come.
In 2021, we will launch the iNEXT, which will be built at our plant in Dingolfing here in Bavaria, and it
is the next milestone, fully electric and at the same time enabled for highly automated driving
with level three functions for motorways.
You're already familiar with our roadmap. We aim to have a quarter of our European new fleet --
new vehicle fleet electrified in 2021, a third in 2025 and half in 2030. BMW clearly leads the
market for electrified vehicles in Germany with the share of 21%, 21%. In 2019, the average share
of battery electric vehicles and plug-in hybrids in the EU plus Norway was 3%. The BMW Group
figure was more than twice as high in Europe.
By the end of 2019, we had delivered a total of more than 330,000 plug-in hybrids to customers.
And this will now be joined by more new BMW models. The X1, X2 and 3 Series Touring to follow
the 3 Series Sedan. And we're making it easier for our customers to use them effectively.
BMW eDrive Zones went live on 12th of March, just last week, in the first six countries with moreautomatically switch to electric mode whenever they drive into a green or blue zone of a city
center. We have programmed around 80 cities for the start, including all major cities with Green
Zones here in Germany, but also cities in the Netherlands, Belgium, France, Austria, or
Switzerland.
E-mobility continues to grain ground -- to gain ground. However, the conventional engine remains
the best drivetrain choice for a lot of people's mobility needs in many regions of the world. That
is why it makes still a lot of sense to continue improving our combustion engines' efficiency. We're
driving climate protection in all vehicle segments and with all drivetrains. This is how we are
defining responsibility.
We are now stepping up electrification by introducing an additional component. We will be
systematically rolling out our 48 Volt Mild Hybrid system throughout our combustion engine fleet.
We are deliberately starting with our highest volume engine variants. This saves up to 0.4 liters
per 100 kilometers, which is to up to 9 grams less CO2 per kilometer depending on the vehicle
and engine variant.
And all of these measures show that we take climate protection seriously. That is why we are
already able to say, we want to meet Europe's CO2 targets for 2020 and also 2021. And in
simple terms, this is how we want to meet the 2020 CO2 fleet target with conventional vehicle
measures contributing one-third and two-thirds coming from e-mobility.
Climate protection has the biggest impact, when it is actually implemented and swiftly and
quickly. And also when customers want it and use the technologies on offer. And our
understanding of responsibility has always been about the entire value chain. This is nothing new
for us. We've already achieved nearly all the sustainability goals for 2020 we set ourselves back in
2012. We continue to be clearly committed to the Paris Climate Agreement.
Currently, we're discussing next steps in the Board of Management. And processes in terms of
sustainability. Of course, we will continue to work together in partnership with our suppliers
around the world in a fair manner. The same applies to our sustainability strategy as to our IT
strategy. Both are anchored in our corporate strategy framework. This means, sustainable actions
and IT are automatically channeled into all areas of the company very quickly.
And already today, the BMW Group is a digital company. We put all our employees from the
worker on the assembly line to our Board of Management members in a position to make data-
driven decisions in the interest of our customers and the company.
Services enhance our mobility offer. Our mobility powerhouse, YOUR NOW, was created last year
in 2019. In collaboration with the Daimler Group, we want to play a major role in this highly
dynamic market. And we remain fully convinced of the potential of YOUR NOW. That is why we
are making investments to expand our product and service offering in the field of mobility
services. YOUR NOW is therefore open to other partners and investors so we can continuously,
successfully expand this business.
Ladies and gentlemen, the BMW Group is a strong innovative company. The customer is the
focus of everything we do. We've updated nearly all series over the last two years. They will be
joined this year by new models like the BMW 2 Series Gran Coup, highly profitable BMW M
models, new plug-in hybrids, and of course electric models. There's something for every
customer, and we are challenging the competition in every single segment.
At the moment though, for all of us, our first priority as a society and as a company is to
overcome the Corona pandemic and then to find our way back to a normal life. I sincerely wishthat you and your families stay healthy. Thank you very much.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental Affairs
Ladies and gentlemen, this year, your questions will be taken here in the room via telephone. We
are streaming around the world, and so please understand if there are minor technical delays. We
don't expect this to happen. However, should the connection break up, you can also send your
questions per e-mail, irbmwgroup.com, irbmwgroup.com. And now, ladies and gentlemen, the
line is open for question.
Operator
(Operator Instructions) And the first question is from `Dorothee Cresswell, Barclays Bank, Barclays. Your line is
now open. Please go ahead.
Q - `Dorothee Cresswell, Barclays Bank `
Hi, there and thank you for taking my question. My first question is around CapEx and R&D in
2020. I think yesterday, you mentioned that CapEx and R&D would now prioritize investments in
the technologies of the future. So, I wondered whether you could help us to quantify that a bit.
How much could you cut those 2 items back this year to protect your free cash flow.
My second question is around China. It seems that the auto market is coming back up for air.
Could you tell us to what extent production has reramped for BMW? How many shifts are you
operating? And also, how much of the production that you lost in February can you make up later
in the year if you add extra shifts? And perhaps you could also tell us what you're seeing on the
demand side in China?
And then finally. I wondered, are you expecting any government support measures in Europe? It
sounds like you're less convinced that we'll see a relaxation of the 2020 CO2 targets. But could
you comment on the potential for a scrappage scheme? Thank you so much.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental Affairs
Thank you very much, Dorothee. The right question for the starting point for Nicolas. We start with
the first part of the question with Nicolas and then Oliver. Nicolas, please.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Okay. As -- Dorothee, as I said, CapEx was planned to go down below the target of 5% in 2020.
And as you can imagine in a very specific unusual situation as we are in today, what do we do? We
review our plans and I would say, we have more or less 3 categories, we will, maintain certain
elements. We will, of course, check whether we can postpone the one or the other item or
maybe there's even something we simply will discontinue. So this is definitely what I would call
now daily prioritization and monitoring of the situation.
And this is extremely a relevant and important exactly for the reason you've mentioned to
protect our free cash flow. So on free cash flow, we have and very vigorous implementation ofseen this already in the fourth quarter with a strong free cash flow of around EUR1.5 billion in the
fourth quarter, working capital going down in the fourth quarter. And of course, we will, in this
light, we view the investment requirements as described.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Dorothee, if I may continue on China. We monitor the situation in China very closely because it
could be a blueprint for what could happen in the rest of the world. What happened in China that
we saw an abrupt downturn of the market end of January, early February. That, of course,
diminished the sales volume to down to 10% of what the market volume was normally. In March, it
already improved substantially. We're currently about 60% of the normal volume and we expect
currently that by the end of April, we could see a normalization of the market. I think what is very
important to understand is it is not market demand so much which led to the lowering of the
market. It was almost exclusive the forced shutdown of all sales outlets.
And that is important to understand also for the rest of the world, what is force closures and what
is actual market demand. The market demand is fairly robust, also in Europe, by the way. So that's
-- I think that's to frame that. Of course, with that market downturn, we also extended the closure
of our plants in Shenyang, two plants rolling up there, and extended the Chinese New Year break
to three weeks. The plants are currently running quite normally with a slightly reduced volume, but
they are all running. And we don't currently have in the structure, not a single corona case
amongst our employees. So it's quite stable up there.
And of course, I think that's also something to learn, it's not about closing the plants, it is about
providing a workplace, which is safe to get infected with the corona case. So, we try to create
very safe places and with a lot of measures we've taken there. After April, what could happen?
Since we see that the market demand is fairly stable, we could, but that's too early to say, we
could even think about an increased market demand to compensate what we lost in February and
March. But that remains to be seen. So, I think China is a good blueprint what could happen. And
currently, the supply chains for our plants in China as far as we can see it, stable.
Your next question, Dorothee, was about CO2 targets, government support. I think this is not on
the table right now because, first of all, what is happening with the coronavirus is -- needs our full
attention of what we need to do. And I think our commitment to 2050 to create a new
environment in Europe with the green deal and our commitment to do everything possible to
support that, that is unchanged. And so, currently, we are not -- we will not request any
postponement of any CO2 requirements we have agreed to.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Dorothee, if I may add on the last topic. We've seen our ex EV, so our electric and plug-in hybrid
sales, in the first two months going up by around 26% in a year-on-year comparison.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental Affairs
Good. Thank you very much, Dorothee. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank. Your line is now open. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank `Yes. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for taking my questions. I'm afraid given how the world
has changed, they will also be primarily about the corona impact. First of all, thank you for
quantifying what you think will be the impact for the full year, not many companies feel in a
position to do so. Can you help us understand to how you get to that number? Specifically, how
should we think about the quarterly development in your planning right now? Could Q2 be even
loss-making with all the sudden shutdowns? And also, what happens when you do shut down a
plant, what happens with your cash cost and working capital situation? Is there any way that you
can help us understand it a bit?
And secondly, when we think about liquidity, we obviously have the numbers from the annual
report, have those changed materially year-to-date? How much gross cash do you have how
much in credit lines? And why wouldn't this year be a reasonable time to think about not paying a
dividend that you have suggested yesterday? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental Affairs
Thank you very much, Tim, for your comments. Thank you very much. And we start with Nicolas.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Tim. So what do you do as a company in such type of situation? You work in scenarios in order to
quantify the impact of the coronavirus. So what did we do? We've developed -- we used China,
as Oliver said, as a blueprint. The situation in China started mid of December to slightly
deteriorate. We had a very strong January in a decline market in China. February already, yes,
down by between 80% and 90%. However, in March, we are back to up to 2/3 of our regular
volume. So -- and this use as a blueprint, we've identified 3 different scenarios. One, what I would
call an optimistic best possible scenario: one, very pessimistic and the middle one, as you can
imagine, in what I would call a likely scenario. And this scenario all --- of course, not only includes
volume impact. It includes what could happen on the service side, parts business, about used car
prices, residual values and so on.
And this was then developed for all 3 major regions: Asia, Europe and, of course, the U.S. If we
look at our cash situation, as I said, we are around EUR17.4 billion liquidity at the end of 2019. This
has not specifically changed. It even slightly improved in 2019 despite a EUR2.3 billion dividend
payout last year. And of course, as you can imagine, we've discussed what to do with the
dividend payment, but we are confident that with our very strict liquidity management on the
one-hand side with the measures we have already implemented in all parts of the organization
that we will be able to manage this situation without cutting or paying no dividend in 2020.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental Affairs
So I think, Oliver, you would like to add something?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Tim, when you shut down a plant, I think it's crucial that your cost curve follows the lowering
demand curve on the volume side. And that, of course, means that your -- that everything where
you have a cash outflow you must manage. And that is mainly -- you have to manage very closely
your stock levels that you don't overproduce. And that is why we already said to date that we
quickly ramped down our European plants and Rosslyn and stay in that mode for the next 4
weeks. I think that was important that we swiftly made that decision.Second big cash outflow is salary payments. And I think with our flexibility matters we have in our
European plants work and accounts, we will demand from most of our employees to take a
vacation and so on. So we keep that cost factor under control. And then, if you ramp up and
down, it is adamant that you keep our supply chains under control that the obsolescence, which is
created by this up and down is minimized. And I think we have a lot of practice in ramping up and
down due to our individualized product structure.
And lastly, I think we will use that time. The plants won't stay idle during that time. But we will use
these 4 weeks to do everything possible to rebuild the factories for e-mobility. Some of it, it has
been planned during that period anyway, but we will put something forward. Things we have
planned for summer, we will do now. Those -- I think with these four measures, we will minimize
the effect on our cash flow.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental Affairs
Thank you very much, Oliver. Now we have a very interesting discussion. Nicolas, I think you would
like to add also something?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Tim, I think I missed one part of your question you've asked, well, what is the impact quarter by
quarter? On one-hand side, of course, we are not guiding quarter-by-quarter. However, as you
can imagine, looking at our guidance to 4% for the full year. We will see an impact, in particular, an
impact in the first half of the year. China already happened. Europe is impacting now March and,
of course, very much April. And we forecast in our guidance in stronger second half year of 2020.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental Affairs
So, thank you very much, Tim. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from `Horst Schneider, Bank of America, Bank of America. Your line is now open. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Bank of America `
Yes. Hello, and thanks for taking also my questions. I hope you can hear me. I have got two ones,
please. Okay. And the first one is, maybe you can tell us what was your unit sales growth in
January and February on a global basis. Would be good to know since you don't report your
monthly gross anymore. And maybe also you can tell us what is the likely number for March?
Then second question that I have is what is a good assumption regarding fixed cost per car just a
rough number. Is it more towards 20% or more towards 30%? And last one that I have is now
since everything is coming under pressure and you still have got great net liquidity, do you think it
now comes the time to look finally for some M&A opportunities? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental Affairs
Thank you very much, Horst. This question will be answered by Nicolas.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Horst, as you rightly said we are not communicating monthly sales. However, what I'm very happysales regions. China, as I already mentioned, was significantly down in February. And the guidance
for the full year, as I said, is that we will be significantly down compared to the previous to the
previous year. Net liquidity, clear focus, Horst, is on our core business.
We are, as an organization, probably in one of the strongest position in our industry, why,
because on one-hand side, we are leading in terms of technology and we have a very, very
flexible and which proves exactly in those space to be a key element. We have a very flexible
production network. Fixed costs, as you can imagine, we've already worked extremely hard and in
a consequent manner in the last years to reduce fixed costs in the whole organization. And we
will, of course, in such type of environment, accelerate those efforts.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental Affairs
Thank you very much, Nicolas. Next question, please Oliver would like to add also. Yes, sorry.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
I think we missed the M&A question from Horst. He asked, whether M&A is important to us? I
think to give you a quick response to that. I think we had some M&A experience some years ago.
And so we are, of course, cautiously with these actions. I think -- and I can only speak for us.
There's currently no sense nor any need to do any M&A activities on the top level of the industry,
meaning that one company overtakes the other. That doesn't make sense.
But below that, where you talk about components, where you talk about competencies, where
you talk about parts of the processes, I think that is a continuous looking at the current situation
and look for coorperations, you know that we are cooperating with Daimler on the autonomous
driven components. You know that we have our iVentures arm, who looks at opportunities on the
component and competence level. And of course, that is going on all the time to either acquire
some competencies or to leverage our own competencies with specific partnerships. And that is,
of course, is still going on.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental Affairs
Thank you very much, Horst. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Ashlee Ramanathan, Redburn, Redburn. Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Ashlee Ramanathan, Redburn `
Good morning, and thank you very much for taking my questions. It's Ashlee here from Redburn.
My first question is just on trying to understand and quantify the cash burn that we're seeing in
the current corona situation. So, what we've seen is you are planning pre-corona to guide to the
market of in excess of EUR3 billion of free cash flow. Now we are speaking of a positive amount.
So, if we take the lower end of that, that is roughly EUR3 billion of cash burn from, call it, 7 weeks
of disruption. So my first question is, are you willing to communicate a minimum level of net cash
that you want to hold in your Industrial division, maybe EUR10 billion? And secondly, how do we
get into a scenario where cash levels become an issue again, thinking back to the math I just
described with the EUR3 billion cash burn from roughly 7 months of disruption.
And secondly, my question is on restructuring. How will the corona situation impact your
restructuring program? Will it hinder it? Will it accelerate the program? And can you remind us ofwhat you had or you currently expect as your EBIT bridge impact in 2020? I think you previously
said a mid-triple-digit figure. You mentioned in your remarks that there are some long-term
packages that have been agreed, maybe you can elaborate on that.
And then very finally, just to add on to Dorothee's question on the China business. Are you able
to tell us how much inventory of the X5 and X7 currently sit in China, or is on its way to China? I'm
now thinking as we look to plant shutdowns going west towards the U.S. and the impact that
would have on some very high-margin sales you have in the region? Thank you very much.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental Affairs
Thank you very much, Ashlee. I think we start first of all with Nicolas.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Ashlee, we have, as I said, we have a very systematic liquidity management, which includes and
what I would call a liquidity risk concept. And this, of course, includes ongoing concerned
approach in a crisis scenarios. From my perspective, it doesn't make a lot of sense to
communicate an absolute minimum level of cash as we are continuously rolling over our planning
in such type of environment. We calculate this internally over a defined period of time and the
fact that we have the second best rating in the industry, the best rating of all European OEMS, I
believe, is definitely confirming our approach.
Regarding free cash flow development, of course, in our scenario, there will be an impact in the
first and second quarter. But our assumption, as we've described is that markets will pick up
afterwards. And this, of course, then will help to further -- to improve free cash flow again. Clear
focus, clear focus in such type of environment is focusing on working capital management. The
organization handled this extremely well back in the financial crisis more than 10 years ago. And
regarding your question about restructuring measures. As you can imagine, we've -- and you
know we have our Performance-NEXT program now running since a little bit more than 2 years --
3 years, sorry. And we, of course, will reinforce the program in some areas. Regarding --
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental Affairs
You can start with the inventory of the X5 and then.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Oliver. Okay.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Ashlee, the character of this corona crisis is that demand is fairly stable, meaning as soon as
dealers are reopening, demand is almost continuing as before. And, currently, our Spartanburg
plant is up and running. It hasn't been stopped. And so currently, the inventory levels over to
China is very intact. How long that condition will stay, we don't know. We foresee that at least for
another week, we will be able to keep the Spartanburg plant running. And then it all depends on
the political developments in the United States that plant running South Carolina, where the plant
is, is not one of the hotspots of the coronavirus currently in the United States. So we will have to
see them.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental Affairs
Okay. Next question, please.Operator
The next question comes from the line of RBC. `Gautam Narayan, RBC. Your line is now open. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Gautam Narayan, RBC `
Hi. Yes. It's `Gautam Narayan, RBC. Maybe I'll follow-up on Ashlee's question and ask in a different way.
What happens to working capital in a downturn for you? Maybe you could look at historical
precedent, perhaps what happened in 2009. Presumably, inventories could be a source of cash,
maybe not so much for accounts payable. Just maybe -- just any high-level color on how you --
how we should think about that for our modeling? Obviously, it's a huge swing factor.
And then a follow-up on the CO2 question. I know you said you're not going to request a
postponement. Just wondering why not. I mean presumably -- we've heard from one of your
peers yesterday that battery prices are coming down. Perhaps consumer adoption of EVs, giving
it a little bit more time could be beneficial for you guys, maybe less margin dilutive. Just maybe
some more color on why not ask for a postponement on we've heard from the German
chancellor, this is the greatest calamity since World War 2 that's happening to us, maybe folks are
looking at other things besides complying with CO2 this year. Thanks.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental Affairs
Okay. Thank you very much. Tom, I think we start with your question to CO2 again and Oliver
would like to say something about it.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Tom, I think the greatest challenge since World War II is changing by the week. Some 4 weeks
ago, I think the greatest challenge was climate change and that is still around. And we are
committed that CO2 emissions have to be reduced, that doesn't change even during the corona
crisis. And we are prepared. We have business contracts with battery suppliers for the next 5
years. We have the right cars. For us, there is no need to step out of commitments we made still
some 4 weeks ago. So from us, I think it's not -- because there will be a world after the corona
crisis, and we will have the same discussion again. So, I think we stick to our commitments, and I
think that's the best way for us.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental Affairs
Thank you very much, Oliver. The first part of the question was about the working capital in
downturn. Nicolas?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Tom. Why are we investing so much money in the flexibility of our plants? Exactly to be prepared
in situations like today to react very fast. Our guiding principle, our guided principle is that
production follows market demand. And this is why we've very fast -- we acted now with the
plants with the shutdown in Europe for weeks. This is exactly what we did during the financial
crisis. Of course, it's extremely difficult today to forecast precisely month by month. But as you
can imagine, we've reinforced in the framework of our PerformanceNEXT program that focus on
working capital, and in particular, also supply chain. And we are addressing KPIs like DIO and DSO
in a very stringent and systematic way.A - `Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental Affairs
Thank you very much, Tom. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from `Patrick Hummel, UBS, UBS. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, UBS `
Hi. Good morning. It's Patrick from UBS here. Thanks for taking my questions. Just a very brief one
on CO2, very simple. Can you share your CO2 emissions in the EU year-to-date with us? And
second question for Oliver, you emphasized several times that you think demand is not the issue,
and you see demand is still there. As much as we all, I think, like to believe in your scenario that
we can use China as the blueprint and things will be back to normal everywhere by summer.
There are some severe recession risks on the horizon that we can't just completely ignore.
So I'm just wondering what gives you the confidence to say at a time when showrooms in most
Western world markets are closed or will be closed to say that demand is still there. And more
specifically, can you comment a little bit as far as Europe is concerned about how the fleet
segment is behaving? Is that going more or less normal because you have the typical 3-year
leasing contracts that are rolling over? Or what's going on in fleet versus retail? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental Affairs
Yes, thank you very much, Patrick. Excellent question. We start with Oliver and then Nicolas. Yes,
Oliver, please.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. As we said before, customer demand for electrified vehicles and also new combustion
engines in Europe was very stable in January. And also February, it was slightly above our planning
premises and so, we are right on track, achieving these targets. And I think, as you know, we have
to achieve at least 104 grams. I think overall, we are a little bit ahead of that. But of course, we
also want to have a little buffer in there. So all we can say now, it's still only mid-March. But I think
we shouldn't be at this point in time, at least, even if volumes go down, the share of vehicles that
pay into our CO2 levels, I think that is not diminishing so far, even if complete volumes go down.
So we are right on target with that.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental Affairs
Nicolas?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Patrick, taking first your question regarding China as a blueprint, as I've tried to describe. We had,
on one-hand, China as a blueprint, but we work, of course, in different type of scenarios. And we
didn't use in exactly the same scenario for Europe and the U.S. as we've used for China. But from
China, we know approximately what could happen. And is this -- 100% confidence that this is
exactly going to happen? Of course not. Of course not. This is what we believe as of today, being
the most likely scenario. However, we have included in this scenario, more elements than just how
is the market developing. We have included, as I said earlier, we have included impact on financial
services. We have included impact on our parts business and so on.Regarding how are the different segments, your third question, how are the different segments
developing in Europe. Of course, as you can imagine, the segment which immediately reacted
and we already see in the reaction is the rental business, the rental companies. So this is, of
course, something we've integrated in our scenarios. And the second element is that we assume
that it's not black and white in Europe regarding the fleet business. We will have a fleet business,
which will recover faster than some other companies. So this is an element we've included as well
in our calculation.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental Affairs
So thank you very much, Patrick. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from Stephen Reitman, Societe Generale. Your line is now open. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Stephen Michael Reitman, Societe Generale Cross Asset Research `
Yes. Good morning. Thank you for taking my questions. I have three. The first one regarding the
guidance you've given. First of all, thank you for giving some quite precise guidance over the 2 to
4 points impact. I think you've given some indication that the optimistic scenario, the full 4-week
shutdown and then kind of return to normality following the China model, does that suggest that
it's like a 2-point margin hit? I'm kind of interested what is the -- where do you get the four
points? How far would that stretch in terms of shutdowns and issues in the market?
My second question is about the -- is about electrification. And specifically, you're a major
shareholder in IONITY. IONITY changed its charging structure in January charging for kilowatt hour,
which has led to very high charges. Now I know that, obviously, if you're a BMW driver, you will be
able to a discount. But how do you think the field that fits into the whole ecosystem of charging,
which everyone says has to be expanded and stay more attractive? But putting higher prices on
this thing is certainly doesn't aid the case and probably plays to one of total advantages with its
supercharge network, which should be at lower prices.
And my third question is about -- also about your car architectures. You are also looking to reduce
the complexity of your vehicle architectures or to reduce ECUs in your product. When are we
going to see the first fruits of this with -- is it going to be iNEXT? Or is it already going to be seen
in vehicles like the iX3? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental Affairs
Thank you very much. Steven, so we start with Nicolas and then Oliver towards the second part of
the question. Yes, Nicolas, please, to the guidance 2020.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Stephen, maybe I should try to be more precise. What we've guided is 2% to 4% EBIT margin and
the impact being 4%, and the 4% are not based on a worldwide optimistic scenario. They are
based what we would call and realistic, most likely scenario. And of course, why do we guide and
range. Because we have other elements, which we have to include how is FX developing, how
our raw material prices developing about the share of ex-EVs and so on, which impact, plus or
minus, the profitability of our automotive segment.Oliver?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, Stephen, your question was about electrification and charging infrastructure. What is
happening in the market that product offering from all OEMs and charging infrastructure. They
kind of grow together. And they're regionally very diverse. And we see currently, there's a lot of
charging infrastructure being built up, maybe not as fast as everyone anticipated, but it is being
built up because there is an increasing amount of people using that. And charging infrastructure
comes in three situation: it's public infrastructure, it's private infrastructure in homes and 1/3 at the
workplace. And specifically at home and at the workplace, there's a lot going on. So very roughly
speaking, I think the infrastructure will go up with market demand. I wouldn't be too worried in
that because we also invest a lot in that especially on charging -- high-speed charging
infrastructure on German highways.
Your next question goes about car architecture. What is the overarching scheme is whatever car
we produce, independent of which architecture is on, it's built inside of our existing car plants and
it comes with different instances. The first instance is it's an older architecture and is being built in
a normal plant like, for example, it's the MINI. The MINI is a car which have in existence and the
architecture already in existence. And afterwards, we rebuild the car, and you see it's very
successful. So the architecture. It's not the dominant thing, it's the brand right. Is the application
right? And for a small car, like a MINI, no one needs 600 kilometers reach because that induces a
lot of cost. That was the first instance.
The next is, for example, the iX3, the iX3 is the first car being built in China using our new set of
the fifth generation of our component strategy for batteries and the electrical engine and survive.
So that is another specific case. But again, it built together in line with our normal X3 in China. A
third instance, you will see with the iNEXT, which is also being built in Dingolfing. But the iNEXT has
a singular architecture. It's not a flexible architecture. It's a single architecture based on the
specific requirements of that very segment. It's an MKL car in the upper middle segment. And of
course, customers want to have a high reach and this car will have a very high reach and also will
have outstanding autonomous driving capabilities.
And the fourth instance you'll see with, for example, with the i4, but also with the -- with X7
Series. These are the fully flexible architectures, unlike, for example, the MINI, where we built
really EV cars, but based on a flexible architecture. So you see all kinds of instances. And the
overarching scheme, it's fully integrated. Why? Because with that approach, we can respond
flexibly for higher demand, which we hope, but also in case that might happen for lower market
demand. And I think by the day, we are more and more convinced that this is exactly the right
approach for the next decade. Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental Affairs
Thank you, Oliver, one more comment from Nicola.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Stephen, this has also this flexible architecture has a positive impact on CapEx. Why? Because we
can use the blueprint from one plant for other plants and, of course, use a scale effect in
purchasing.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental AffairsGood. Thank you very much, Stephen. Next question, please.
Operator
Next question is from `Stuart Pearson, Exane BNP Paribas, Exane BNP Paribas. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
Q - `Stuart Pearson, Exane BNP Paribas `
Yes. Thank you. Good morning. Just a couple of questions left on my side. And I will come back a
bit more specifically on liquidity because as we look at the way, at least, stocks trading, it does
suggest, given its value now less than your net cash and financial services equity that there are
growing fears around liquidity here, which given the series is understandable. And I guess when
you look at the bonds, commercial pay for the ABS you had maturing as of the start of this year
during 2020, it did add up to around EUR25 billion, which is similar to your liquidity plus your credit
line.
So I guess the first question is, how much of that had you already done year-to-date as of the,
let's say, 60 months we've already had? And how do you think about liquidity from here?
Obviously, the markets are clearly volatile to say the least right now. Do you can pull ahead and
try and raise as much liquidity as possible sooner rather than later? Or do you wait for those
markets to calm down?
And then the second question, just on the lease book and residual values. You mentioned it
briefly earlier, so apologies if I missed it. But maybe just a comment on what you are seeing early
days, but anything on lease prices. And as you can't answer, if we were, just hypothetically, see,
let's say, a 20% drop in used values around the world, what would that do to your lease book?
And how much conservatism is there in the account values of those leased assets? And what kind
of write-down could we see if you saw a 20% drop in used values? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental Affairs
Thank you very much also for your question about the liquidity. It's very important in this time. This
will be answered by Nicolas.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Thanks, Stuart, number one, are we happy with our stock value? Of course not, and it's definitely
not reflecting the value of our company. We have access to -- thanks to our strong rating to global
capital markets compared to the financial crisis, we have even increased a couple of years ago
our backup line from EUR6 billion to EUR8 billion. We have over 40 global banks in this -- included
in this backup line. Our automotive business is self-funded. So everything we do on the capital
market in terms of refinancing is for our financial services business.
We have to fund approximately plus/minus around EUR40 billion per year, and of course, this will
slightly go down as we forecast and negative development of the market. However, as I've
already mentioned, our scenario is that the second half year of 2020 will show in better
development as we've experienced today. We have regarding used car prices, and you're
absolutely right to put this on the table. It played an important role, in particular, in markets like
U.S., U.K and Germany. We have included in our guidance some impact on the -- regarding the
residual value situation. And we believe as I said in my speech, that this will be sufficient from
today's perspective to cover in a very robust way the today's market situation.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental AffairsOkay. Thank you very much, Stuart. Next question, please.
Operator
Our next question is from Jos Asumendi, JPMorgan. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
Q - `Jose Asumendi, JPMorgan `
Thanks very much. `Jose Asumendi, JPMorgan, JPMorgan. Just a couple of items please? The first one for
Oliver. Can you talk about two topics, please. One, the ramp-up of the plants in Mexico and
Hungary, how important strategically is this for BMW in order to improve the cost
competitiveness, especially in Germany? And what are your plans to localize additional vehicles
across both regions?
The second topic for Oliver as well, please. Can you speak a little bit about Level 2 Level 3 ADAS
option across the BMW portfolio and, specifically on the BMW X4, whether you think you will be in
a position to do over the-air updates and what kind of ADAS functionality we should think about?
Third question, please, for Nicolas. Can you talk a bit about the dividend you get from China? It
has been growing quite extensively over the past 2 years. It could be a big cash inflow factor in
2020. And in the light of the earnings you posted in 2019, there is no reason, I think, not to see an
increase in the dividend. Can you comment on that dividend, please, from China and whether
that could be an opportunity on safety net for 2020? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental Affairs
Thank you very much, Jose. So we start with Oliver.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Jose, these are very, very important questions. When we decide on manufacturing structure,
these are really long-term decisions we made. They're not done by current cost competitiveness
only. This is more -- they follow the view that we are a global player, where we need structures
where we can follow the market demand in these regions more closely. When you look at our
current structure, I think we are building up plants in China, which follow market demand there. I
think we have a very robust structure in Western Europe. There's no need for additional capacity
there. And we added the Mexican plant because not only because Mexico has a very competitive
labor cost structure. It even more important today is what kind of free trade zones do specific
countries have, and that is very favorable for Mexico on top of a very competitive supplier base
there.
And the same arguments hold true for Hungary because we think Hungary is the right location,
and we decided on that location some 3 years ago. That is the perfect addition in our long-term
plant strategy, so that's very intact. Your second question, Level 2 or 3 in autonomous driving in
the autonomous driving area. I think the iNEXT is the cornerstone of our ADAS strategy. It will be
the most advanced system BMW will be able to offer. And it will have the capability to offer Level
3 on highways. And then the actual configuration, it will provide for the customer will depend very
much on the local regulator.
What we currently see that the United States and China are a tick more progressive in allowing
the Level 3 technology we have on the road. The European regulator is a little bit more
conservative. So it will highly depend on local requirements on that base. But the car with the
iNEXT, and then the subsequent cars like the 7 Series will then have the equal technology. SoA - `Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental Affairs
Thank you very much, Oliver. The third part of the question was about China, the cash inflow
factor in 2020. Nicolas, please.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Jos, 2 elements are relevant regarding cash inflow from China. First element, we have already in
Q1 positive impact from a dividend payment related to 2019 dividend payment 2019, but cash
inflow in the first quarter 2020. Regarding dividend 2020, what this joint venture, the partners will
decide on dividend usually in the second quarter of the year. Now of course, this will depend on
the business development and the profit of BBA. I can assure you there will be no decision at cost
of the balance sheet substance of BBA.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental Affairs
Thank you very much, Jose. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from `George Galliers, Goldman Sachs, Goldman Sachs. Your line is now open. Please go
ahead.
Q - `George Galliers, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you for taking my question. I just wanted to come back to some of the discussion
previously around working capital. And I was wondering if you could firstly confirm to us what on
average is your kind of average payable days? So typically, how quickly do you pay suppliers? And
following on from that, I wanted to ask, to the extent some of your suppliers were seeing
financial distress as a result of the production shutdowns, would you be willing to pay them
sooner than you typically do. And if we go back to 2008 and '09, is that something you actually
did? Did you support your suppliers' liquidity?
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental Affairs
Nicolas?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
George, of course, this is two very important questions. On average payment terms for suppliers
around 40 days. And similar to what we did in the financial crisis. We will decide case by case.
There will be no global overall decision. We will decide case by case. And luckily, of course, there
are also national support schemes in place by various government schemes, which can be used
by suppliers as well.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental Affairs
So ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. It's quarter to 12. Do we have another question? I
think --
Operator
At this time, we have no further questions.A - `Maximilian Schoberl, EVP, Corporate Communications & Governmental Affairs
That is not the case. So ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your question and your interest. We
hope it is not too long before we see one another again. I wish you a pleasant day and of all, stay
safe. Thank you very much from Munich. Bye-bye.