Y 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Welcome to the BMW Group Annual Conference Media Day 2021.
`Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bid you a cordial welcome to the BMW Group Annual
Conference 2021 in Munich. This year, too, unfortunately it is being held purely virtually again. So
thank you, ladies and gentlemen, around the globe, for joining us today. Right at the start, one
hint to all of you. All the participants at this conference both in front of and behind the camera
have been tested negative to the Coronavirus. All the necessary hygiene rules are being
observed. And now I would like to come to the first point on the agenda. I would like to bid a
cordial welcome to the BMW AG CEO. Welcome to `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management.
`Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Good morning from me, too, Max. At the beginning of our conference, I'd like to start with a
bigger picture. I'd like to open up the view. Now why is that important to me? Because at BMW,
our decisions are based on a long-term perspective. And all the more, we have to anticipate how
the world around us will change. That makes it even more important. So what are the big issues
of our time that concern us all and that demand join answers.
I would like to offer five beliefs. First, effective climate protection can only be achieved through
the intensive use of technology, and I firmly believe science and technology-based innovation aresupport of policy. Doubts, unilateral technology determination and politics of interest only hinder
this process. To make real progress, we need the biggest efforts in all areas where proven they
have been proven to deliver the greatest impact. And ladies and gentlemen, sacrifice is not an
option.
Second, industrialization needs the right timing. The success of a technical invention depends for
one thing on the ability to industrialize it on their highly complex conditions and for another thing,
on finding the right timing. These two factors combined determine whether an innovation gains
traction in the market place. Physical industrialization will remain valuable to society even in the
digital age, especially as the two merge into one and results in progress.
Third thesis. The future of our planet demands circularity. Every year, humanity uses more than
100 billion tonnes of raw materials. Anyone wanting to use our earth scarce resources for their
business model in the future, will need to have a very good reason. So why don't we turn around
the narrative from a taken for granted unquestioned use of primary material to the primacy of
secondary materials. Let's reduce dependencies. Every time we think about using raw materials,
we should ask how much do we need and what do we want to use it for and aren't there better
options?
Fourth thesis, digitalization serves human kind. Digitalization has long been a commodity and we
look to take advantage of it consistently. Think about the images the Mars Rover has been
sending us over the past few days. How those shots were taken a secondary what counts as their
magic. Digitalization is there alongside us wherever we go. It makes all and we all simply
expected to work without being too obvious. In doing so, it needs to be human and it has to
become even more human.
Fifth thesis, growth will remain the most important economic currency. Global companies like the
BMW Group need to recognize where markets are headed, both progressive ones and those
that are more established. All markets have potential for growth and profitability. Markets will
continue to develop in different ways. In terms of pace, technology and the framework
conditions, companies with a strong ability to serve different markets with the right technologies
and products will have the best prospects for further growth and profitability.
I wanted to begin today by sharing the thoughts with you today because they guide our actions at
the BMW Group.
`Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much, Oliver, by the way the BMW iX stands for these statements. We have
always said that the iX is our innovation and technology flagship and X entirely in sense of these
five beliefs. And we have worked intensively to achieve this, to find the right timing for this highly-
complex vehicle was both the guiding principle for us and the decision we had to make. The iX
will enable all future BMW vehicles and I have already driven it a few times myself. And I can only
confirm to you, it definitely delivers on our promises. It is a true BMW, fully electric with the range
up to 600 kilometers according to WLTP short charging times, a unique discovery space packed
to the brim with technology that you can't see or feel. We call this shy tech, all is intuitive, simple
and human like. And I am absolutely sure that the customers will love it.
This vehicle obviously also has huge strategic meaning for us. That's right, because there are
three things we associate with it. BMW's capacity for innovation, BMW's systems expertise, and
BMW's ability for the right timing. There is a lot going on right now in our individual mobility
business segment, the market capitalization of our industry really exploded last year. A lot ofpromises have been made. There are a lot of new projects with real and perceived obligations to
take action, but now as always we are charting our own BMW course.
And what does course will look like until 2030? We would like to show you today. Thank you very
much, Oliver.
`Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
I think that has started us into the yearly conference of BMW Group quite well and before you
give us a look into the nearer and more distant future, we will, first of all take a look at the most
important numbers of business year 2020 and for that, I would like to welcome our Chief
Financial Officer, Dr. `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Finance.
`Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Welcome, Nicolas. You will today give us an overview on the financial year 2020 and tell us what
the plans are that BMW has for the year 2021. But before you get started, we will together watch
a short film about the corona year 2024 BMW. Please roll the clip.
(Video Presentation)
`Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Finance `
Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I hope you're all feeling well, are in good health. As we've
seen this short clip the year 2020 was a special year, be it on the personal side for each and
every one of us or in at business environment and that also holds true of course for the BMW
Group. Against a highly volatile market backdrop, we've been able to master complex situations
and through this, we were able to restrict the negative effects of the pandemic on our result.
Under these circumstances, we were able to achieve a solid Group results, solid Group earnings
and at the same time, we also made important decisions for the long-term success of our
Company and at the same time, we were even able to step up our transformation process. Basic
pre-conditions further were a high degree of flexibility and agility to reach our adjusted annual
targets for 2020 and we succeeded in doing that.
COVID-19 in the past financial year increased the volatility in the market environment, which had
already been high to start with. In the first half of the year, it led to historic slumps in all important
automotive markets in the world. We quickly adapted to the situation and we took the right
decisions. Amongst those, the reduction of our inventories and a consistent cost and investment
management. This enabled us to reduce our fixed cost by close to EUR1 billion and capital
expenditure by around EUR1.7 billion.
Those measures then paid off in the second half of the year together combined with utilizing all
market opportunities that we saw. Customer demand recovered significantly in the most
important global regions, so that the second half of the year, with more than 1.36 million vehicles
sold turned into the strongest half year of our Company's history.
In that, electromobility proved to be an extent, an important driver of growth. We were able to
increase the sales of electrified vehicles to close to 193,000 units. In addition, this was an
important contribution to fulfilling the CO2 target limits of the European Union, which we were
even able to exceed in -- during the year 2020. So, we've put sustainability at the center of the
Company and this is also what our new BMW Group report represents. We are the first
automotive manufacturer listed on the docks to combine our sustainable value report with ourshow how economic, environmental, and social concerns complement and depend on each other
at the BMW Group.
Ladies and gentlemen, 2020 was also a stress test, if you wish for the capacity for
transformation. Immediately, after the onset of the pandemic, we initiated important Company-
wide measures to make us even faster, more efficient, more digital, and also more profitable.
Our performance program has an important part to play in all of this. The aim of our Company-
wide performance and cost cutting program is to achieve a sustainable increase in profitability to
make our structures leaner and to speed up our processes.
Digitalization is a decisive tool in all of this. We're using it in a targeted manner to make our
Company more efficient. In sales and marketing, for instance, we set up digital systems aimed at
controlling and increasing the contribution margin at the individual vehicle level. At the same time
by reducing our sales promotion programs and by streamlining our structures, we were able to
lower our sales costs, and in the coming years, we will continue to increase our efficiencies.
In parallel, we continue to reduce variant and drivetrain complexity. By 2025 up to 50% of our
current drivetrain variants will no longer be offered. Already over the past years, we reduced the
range of diesel and petrol engines by close to 30%, so you can see from all of this that we're
taking consistent decisions to bring our profitability sustainably back to our target bandwidth of
8% to 10% and to keep it at this level.
Ladies and gentlemen, let me now tell you about the key financial figures for the Group. Group
revenues in 2020 amounted to close to EUR99 billion which was -- which showed a moderate
decline against the backdrop of the pandemic. Group earnings before tax totaled EUR5.2 billion
with the Group EBT margin of 5.3%.
The second half of the year highlighted our higher performance capacity. Our products were in
high demand and a strong product mix and better pricing also led to positive effects. Our free
cash flow was healthy and on the basis, we were able to invest into the future and forge ahead,
especially with electrification and digitalization in a consistent manner.
Research and development expenditure in the 2020 totaled almost EUR6.3 billion. And with this,
thanks to good cost management, the figure was slightly lower than in the previous year without
us having to cut back on key upfront investments. Our R&D ratio amounted to 6.3% on par with
the previous year's level. Focal points in this context were developing the fifth generation of our
electric drivetrains and the following generations as well. The new eighth generation of the BMW
iDrive operating concept and highly automated driving.
Our financial result improved significantly year-on-year. A key driver here was the significantly
higher at-equity result of more than EUR1.2 billion from the Chinese venture, BMW Brilliance
Automotive. That was mainly due to effective pricing on the one hand side and high volumes on
the other side, which company each other. From April on sales figures in China were consistent to
be higher than during the previous year.
The operating business of the YOUR NOW Group, our mobility services provider, also performed
significantly better than in the previous year. And then a positive effect stemmed from the sale of
shares in the map service provider here.
Tax expenses decreased significantly to EUR1.36 billion. The main reason for that of course the
pandemic-related decline in earnings. Our tax ratio thus amounted to 26.1% also below the
previous year's level. As part of our transformation process, we also continue to move forward
with personnel restriction measures. The size of our workforce decreased in the year on thereport as forecast from 126,000 to 120,700. In this, we are taking advantage of voluntary
agreements as well as of natural attrition. Through this, the Company has become noticeably
leaner than it was just a year ago. But at the same time we keep -- we're keeping our focus on
the future. So, in spite of the overall decrease in employees, we continued our targeted build up
of personnel in key transformation areas.
Ladies and gentlemen, in face of the challenging framework conditions, the BMW Group was able
to post solid Group earnings. The Board of Management, and the Supervisory Board thus
proposed to the Annual General Meeting that BMW AG's net profit of EUR1.25 billion be utilized
to pay a dividend of EUR1.90 per share of common stock and EUR1.92 per share of preferred
stock. This represents a payout ratio of 32.5% for the year 2020, which is on par with the previous
year's level, and within our long-term target range of 30% to 40% payout ratio.
Group liquidity remained unchanged at EUR17.8 billion. So almost at the same level as at the end
of December 2019. We have sufficient liquidity reserves to remain flexible and able to take action
at any time, should the situation deteriorate again. The capabilities of our liquidity concept were
put to the test and proved the worth in the year 2020, with our financing strategy and our
diversified financial instruments we had access to the capital markets at any time, including
immediately after the onset of the pandemic.
And then, additional positive effect here was thanks to our excellent credit rating. One sentence
about our pension obligations in spite of the COVID-19 pandemic and the ensuing volatility in the
financial markets, the funding level of our global pension funds was kept almost at the same level
as in previous year at 86%. Ladies and gentlemen, before I come to the individual segments, I
would like to show you another short film.
(Video Presentation)
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with the automotive segment. Due to the pandemic,
deliveries were moderately lower at 2.33 million vehicles. Revenues decreased significantly to
around EUR80 billion. The EBIT margin for the segment was 2.7%, which was at the higher end of
our target range, adjusted during the year to 0% to 3%. The third quarter EBIT margin was 6.7%,
followed by a margin of 7.7% in the last quarter. This was the segment's best quarterly figure for
2.5 years.
In addition to recovering customer demand, also our good model mix and better pricing were
positive -- had a positive influence here. Earnings before interest and taxes totaled EUR2.2 billion
and therefore significantly lower than the previous year as was to be expected due to the
pandemic.
Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a look at free cash flow in the automotive segment, which
totaled around EUR2.8 billion at the end of the fourth quarter. For the full year 2020, it reached
EUR3.4 billion and was therefore significantly higher than in the previous year. The main drivers for
this were the pre-tax earnings in the second half of the year as well as the reduction in
inventories and capital expenditure.
We were able to lower inventory levels by almost EUR1 billion compared to 2019 by optimizing
lead times and through structural improvements in logistics. At the end of the year, capital
expenditure totaled EUR3.9 billion. Thanks to prioritization and the clear focus, we were able to
reduce this total by EUR1.8 billion compared to the previous year. Furthermore efficiency
enhancements in our in-house component production units contributed to this reduction. The
improvement in free cash flow over the previous year also led to an increase in the segment'sLadies and gentlemen, let's move on to the financial services segment, also our financing and
leasing business felt the effects of the pandemic. As expected, our earnings before tax were
significantly lower than in the previous year at EUR1.7 billion. This was due to significantly higher
risk provisioning for anticipated credits and residual value losses in the mid-to-high three-digit
million euro range. Almost 1.85 million new financing and leasing contracts were concluded with
retail customers in 2020. This represents a moderate decrease from the previous year. In the
second half of the year, thanks to the market recovery, the number of new contracts was on par
with the previous year.
At the same time, we benefited from a positive development in the used car market, which
resulted in higher income from the sale of end of lease vehicles. Moreover, the credit loss ratio
remained on a low level. The segment's returned on equity amounted to 11.2%. Return on equity -
- thanks to the improved risk situation in the fourth quarter was thus only slightly lower than in the
year 2019.
I would now like to turn to our motorcycles segment BMW Motorrad. And despite the Coronavirus
pandemic, BMW Motorrad was able to deliver close to 170,000 motorcycles and scooters to
customers and thus to achieve the second best sales result in its history. This clearly underpins
BMW Motorrad's successful growth strategy.
Overall earnings before tax in the segment totaled EUR100 million and thus as forecast
significantly below the previous year's level. This again of course was due to the pandemic-
related decrease -- decrease in sales in the first half of the year. A positive driver on the other
hand was our product defensive with the market launch of 13 new models, including the BMW
R18. The EBIT margin in 2020 was at 4.5% and therefore in the top third of our forecast target
range of 3% to 5%.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are actively driving the transformation process. In the year 2021, we
will once again invest in a targeted and focused manner in the future areas of electromobility and
digitalization, financed by our core profit -- by our profitable core business.
In general, we expect to see a positive development in key automotive markets over the course
of this year, which is also reflected in our guidance for the year. Despite of this, there are still --
there is still a great deal of uncertainty. The further development of the Coronavirus pandemic
from hereon with the possibility of direct and indirect consequences for a business model. This
development remains uncertain even with vaccines available, and also the supply situation for
semiconductors remains very tight. Moreover, we cannot exclude the possibility of further rising
commodity prices.
All of these factors could have -- could potentially have an impact on the income assets and
financial position of the BMW Group. Any possible effects regarding the ongoing cartel
proceedings of the European Union have not been included in the following forecast of the most
important key figures.
Let me now come to our guidance. For this year, we expect to see significant growth in Group
pre-tax earnings. For the automotive segment, we forecast a solid increase in the number of
BMW, MINI and Rolls-Royce vehicles delivered to customers. We expect the EBIT margin in the
automotive segment to be within a range of 6% to 8% with a significantly higher RoCE for the
Automotive business. Especially for Europe, we continue to expect a volatile development over
the further course of year.
In the financial services segment, we forecast the return on equity of between 12% and 15%. Thewithin our target range of 8% to 10%, and RoCE for the segment should therefore also be
significantly higher year-on-year. By expanding our forecast, including some of the following non-
financial indicators, we want to highlight the growing importance of sustainability reporting and
the consistent control of these targets. The percentage of female managers at the BMW Group
is forecast to increase slightly in 2021. In line with our continued restructuring process, the targets
I've set out are to be reached with a slightly lower number of employees. When it comes to CO2
emissions, we anticipate another significant reduction in CO2 emissions, in the new vehicle fleet
with the adjusted reference basis. This will be tied to a significant increase in the percentage of
electrified vehicles and the further development of our highly efficient combustion engines.
Ladies and gentlemen, in the year 2021, we want to grow and we want to increase our
profitability. At the same time, we are ready to respond quickly and flexibly at anytime to any
further developments that could arise from those uncertainties I've just spoken about.
We've had a strong start to the year and for the remainder of the year we are nevertheless
expecting an increasingly volatile development. For the automotive segment, we aim at a free
cash flow of over EUR4 billion for the whole year. You know the BMW Group. Our thinking and
actions are always geared towards the long term. By making the right decisions today, we're
creating the necessary conditions for sustainably meeting our strategic goal for the automotive
segment, namely an EBIT margin of 8% to 10%. We are on the right course and we're looking to
the future with confidence.
Thank you very much for your kind attention.
`Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
And I have to say thank you as well. Thank you very much, Nicolas for this comprehensive balance
of business year 2020. And even more important, the outlook for 2021, you've given us a lot of
confidence, which is something that we will all need for this year. Having said that, I would like to
say goodbye to you for the time being, but I know that you will join us later on, again. Thank you
very much to our Chief Financial Officer, `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Finance.
And now, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to bid a cordial welcome to the social media
community, and you're exactly on time, because we're now looking into the more distant future
and this is something that the CEO of BMW Hague [ph] can do best. So once again, I would like
to welcome `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management on the stage here.
`Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Ladies and gentlemen, since August of 2019, I have been working with a really strong new Board
of Management team to lay the foundations for a new management beginning. We adopted our
integrated approach to sustainability with concrete goes up to 2030 in line with the Paris Climate
Agreement.
In fact, our own CO2 emissions target is a lot more ambitious. We are also submitting our
activities to external scrutiny as demonstrated by our very first integrated BMW Group report.
Second, we instilled the team with confidence. BMW certainly has all the capabilities it needs for
the age of sustainable electromobility. And we, ourselves, launched that almost a decade ago
with the BMW i3, you will surely remember that.
And third, we dealt with the effects of the Coronavirus pandemic with the typical BMW flexibility.
In fact, our global market share even increased during the pandemic. The BMW team spirit won
through and I would like to say thank you to our more than 120 associates worldwide for that.And now it's time for the next big push, we are driving the transformation the Company needs to
ramp up e-mobility and high-speed. The BMW iX is one good example of our technology
offensive. And we thought why not do that in twins. Let's take a look at that and maybe you can
already guess what this is all about.
(Video Presentation)
And now here, it is live. This is the very first time that we are showing the BMW i4 openly. Pieter
Nota said it the fully electric i4 comes right from the heart of BMW. Many customers have been
eagerly waiting for it and this is a clear sign that the markets are ready now for electromobility
and that made releasing this Gran Coupe three months earlier than planned, an easy decision for
us.
At major tipping points, BMW has often assured in change with bold decisions. Our entire product
line up at BMW, MINI and Rolls-Royce is based on technological innovations. It meets our
customers' different needs and different markets worldwide, and that is exactly where our
strength lies in the current phase of our transformation.
We are electrifying BMW and we are picking up the pace of electromobility. And here is our
roadmap for 2021, 2023 and 2025. Through our technology offensive, we have prepared
ourselves with the necessary depth and precision. This year our xEV sales are expected to grow
by more than 75% compared to last year. The percentage of fully electric vehicles will continue to
grow and is expected to more than double compared to 2020. By the end of this year, we aim to
have delivered more than 1 million electrified vehicles to customers since 2013.
2023 will be a key year for us in e-mobility with 13 fully electric models on the roads. Positioning
our BEVs in the high-volume segments will enable us to ramp up quickly and achieve swift market
penetration. To this end, we have empowered our structures in recent years. Others focus on
individual market segments and niches. We, on the other hand, are taking a targeted approach
across all market segments. By 2023 already, we will have at least one fully-electric model on the
roads in all key segments, from the compact-car segment to the ultra-luxury class. This means, by
the end of Phase 2 of our transformation, we will have fully-electric models for all our major
series, covering about 90% of our segments.
With an eye towards regulations, we could even serve certain segments exclusively with fully-
electric models. The most important aspect is always ensuring an optimal balance between the
product offering and profitability. And I want to make it quite clear, if demand in certain markets
shifts entirely to fully-electric vehicles within the next few years, then we'll be able to deliver.
By the end of 2025, we will have delivered a total of around 2 million fully-electric vehicles to
customers. We will also be growing our sales of fully-electric models by well over 50% per year
over the next few years, more than 10 times the figure for 2020. We have been focused on this
growth and have prepared for it systematically, so we can adapt flexibly to market developments
at any time.
MINI will be the first BMW Group brand to go fully electric. And MINI is predestined for the city and
thus for e-mobility. In 2025, we will be releasing the last model with a combustion-engine variant.
By the early 2030s, MINI will be exclusively fully electric.
You can also expect to see fully-electric products from Rolls-Royce as well. As an industry, we will
only be able to meet current and future mobility needs with an open-technology approach for all,
and I'm really stressing this, for all drivetrain forms. This includes e-fuels as well as hydrogen,
which will be an alternative worldwide let's face it. Next year, we will be releasing a small series ofthe BMW i Hydrogen NEXT. We could also imagine it as a production vehicle. That is why we are
supporting the creation of the necessary infrastructure in Germany.
Our production network is swiftly and efficiently integrating electrification into our existing plant
structure. With our intelligent vehicle architectures, we are in an optimal position to industrialize
and then to scale manufacturing, using a single production structure, with maximum flexibility and
exchangeability. Because in this way, we can tap the full potential of differentiated, still
differentiated demand around the world.
And BMW is global. We are present in more than 140 markets worldwide. And ladies and
gentlemen, it is not realistic that the same technologies will prevail equally in every country at the
same time. And that is why it does not make economic sense to pull certain offerings from
markets, which still enjoy demand. For example, because the necessary infrastructure for certain
technologies is not available. Here the BMW X3 will now be followed by the high-volume BMW 7
Series, X1 and 5 Series models, as well as the MINI Countryman. This is technology openness par
excellence.
By 2022, each of our four German vehicle plants will be producing at least one fully-electric
vehicle.
(Video Presentation)
Around the world, we are gearing up our plants to ramp up e-mobility. As `Milan Nedeljkovic, Head of Production just
showed us, even our oldest plant, here in Munich, is going electric. The main plant in Munich has a
long tradition of building combustion engines. And now, we are looking to the future and
relocating this production to our locations in Steyr, Austria and Hams Hall in the UK. And a highly
modern, fully digitized and flexible vehicle assembly will be built on the current engine production
site by 2026.
Our signal both inside and outside the Company is that, we are combining the transition to e-
mobility with a shift in competence and development of new skills and not job cuts. Ilka
Horstmeier talked about 4,000 new hires, despite of the coronavirus pandemic and the
transformation. We are in the midst of the biggest training offensive in our company's history.
Technology is our enabler for climate neutrality in 2050. The greenest electric car in the world will
be a BMW. Our customers can rest assured that their BMW will always have the smallest overall
carbon footprint. And that is a very high standard. At the high end of the market, in particular,
where customers are willing to pay more, they are already asking specifically for sustainable
product features in their cars.
Luxury and sustainability go hand in hand with one another. And that is another reason why we
have been so successful in the luxury segment. In 2020 despite the pandemic, the 7 Series, 8
Series and X7 saw sales growth of more than 12% compared to 2019. Since 2018, it is even 70%.
We focus on the entire value chain, not just vehicles' local emissions. We are reducing CO2
emissions throughout the entire lifecycle, that means, supply chain, production, and use phase of
course as well. We will reduce carbon emissions per vehicle by at least a third across all these
phases versus 2019. We already set the benchmark for production. We will now reduce CO2
emissions per vehicle by another 80% by 2030.
Our plants worldwide already source their electricity exclusively from renewable energies. The iX
and here the i4 will be produced using electricity from domestic hydroelectric power from the Isar
and Lech rivers. We have already concluded direct supplier contracts in each case. We are noweven aiming to reduce CO2 fleet emissions during the use phase by more than 40% by 2030.
That just leaves the supply chain, which is especially important when it comes to e-mobility.
(Video Presentation)
We are realising our holistic approach by working with our suppliers. As `Andreas Wendt, Director, Purchasing & Supplier Network just
explained, we have reached an agreement with our suppliers that they will only use green power
to produce battery cells.
In fact, ramping up e-mobility would cause supply chain CO2 emissions per vehicle to increase by
more than a third by 2030. But we are deliberately turning the tables and, instead, are lowering
emissions during the same period by more than 20%. We are serious about making BMW
sustainable.
As a high-tech company, we drive technological innovation forward. As `Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Development says, our new
BMW Operating System 8 is the most powerful vehicle data processing system we have ever
developed.
(Video Presentation)
The BMW Operating System 8 will be available first in the BMW iX. It forms the basis of the next-
generation BMW iDrive. And it is the best and most secure user interface currently available for
physical and digital functions in the car. It'll transform every new BMW model into a digital
powerhouse. Customers will be able to install, buy or book functions on demand over-the-air at a
later date. We always think of mechanics and digital together and develop hardware and
software in a highly integrated manner. Software supports our customers, is discrete and
becoming thus more human. The new BMW iDrive shows that, at the BMW Group, we are experts
in systems integration and it works. And this capability will also be crucial during the next phase of
our transformation from 2025 onwards.
Ladies and gentlemen, the electromobility growth curve will continue to climb between 2025 and
2030. Our BEVs will see average growth of more than 20 percent per year during this period. To
this end, we will be launching a radically new product offering in 2025. And we call it, Die Neue
Klasse. I'm sure the name sounds familiar to some of you. BMW made a similar radical change in
its product direction once before, back in the early 1960s. With its rediscovery of the sporty mid-
range car, BMW experienced an unprecedented upswing for the coming decades. But, most of
all, back then, it was also about our mindset and the sheer determination to change things. And
we are being just as bold and just as radical again today.
We are asking ourselves the question, what does a BMW need to be in 2030? What fits our
customers? What does society need, and what does it demand? For us, the Neue Klasse forms
the nucleus of rethinking the car from the ground up. We are liberating ourselves from today's
segments and architectures. We are revolutionising the underlying logic of our product offering
and combining it with a new vehicle architecture, based on the principle of e-mobility first. An
electric drivetrain based on the hydrogen fuel cell could also be a part of this.
We see the Neue Klasse as a combination of, an entirely new IT and software architecture; a
newly-developed electric drivetrain and battery generation; and a new level of sustainability,
geared towards a circular economy. Digitization, electrification and sustainability are the defining
characteristics of the Neue Klasse.
Circular is already a USP for BMW. We have defined new efficiency standards for the models of
the Neue Klasse. Resources are scarce and valuable. That is why we are purposely usingsecondary materials, such as recycled steel, plastics and aluminium. This means a paradigm shift
towards secondary first, wherever the quality and availability of materials allow. Circularity is both
an aspiration and a promise for us. In developing the vehicles of the Neue Klasse, we are
ensuring from the outset that the raw materials can be recycled at the end of their lifecycle for
use in new vehicles from cradle to cradle so to speak.
But secondary is a much broader approach than simply focusing on climate protection. Through
economic recycling, we are also helping solve the world's resource problems. No one can do it
this alone. The circular economy demands cross-sector collaborations. Look out for our vision
vehicle at the IAA Mobility. It will provide a first glimpse of our approach to the circular economy
and new cooperation models.
In addition to e-mobility first, the Neue Klasse also aspires to be digital first. We are developing a
totally new kind of user experience, never before seen in a production vehicle. And because
every region of the world has different digital ecosystems, we are using regional customizable
technology stacks. They tailor the vehicle's operating system perfectly to local conditions and
update it constantly to ensure it's always fresh. Our customers can book and configure features
through their vehicle's lifecycle. We will generate a significant -- we will create a complete
emotional experience and secure our long-term profitability with Neue Klasse.
In terms of range and manufacturing, we aim to match the level of our state-of-the-art
combustion-engine vehicles. The Neue Klasse underlines our clear commitment to achieve an
EBIT margin within the target range of 8% to 10%. But one thing is already certain today. The
vehicles of the Neue Klasse will be true BMWs. They are designed to win over our customers and
inspire them.
By 2030, at least 50% of our global sales will be fully electric. And over the next approximately 10
years, we will be releasing a total of about 10 million fully-electric vehicles onto the roads. How
quickly each individual market gets there will depend on availability of charging infrastructure. In
Asia, for instance, many countries plan the infrastructure from the start when constructing new
buildings. Here, too, we want to make faster joint progress in Europe.
The NEUE KLASSE is our global product offering for the markets of the future. We will grow with
this unique portfolio and we can handle the necessary complexity at the same time. We have
confidence in our abilities. We think far into the future. Our approach is tech-forward.
We are also optimistic about the financial year of 2021. Our sales figures for January and February
seamlessly continued the trend at the end of the strong fourth quarter of 2020, with significant
double-digit growth rates.
Ladies and gentlemen, I never cease to be inspired by our products. Taking the car into the future
is the most -- is an extremely challenge. It takes passion and excitement for mobility. The
greenest electric vehicle -- electric car will be a -- should be a BMW, and the boldest company,
the BMW Group. In other words, BMW is going electric, digital and circular.
Now, I'm looking forward to answering your questions together with my Managing Board team.
Thank you very much for the time being.
`Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Dear Oliver, passion and enjoy, I think. That's a great end to the first part of our conference.
Thank you very much for that. Now we will meet in a few seconds again for a Q&A ladies and
gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now back for a Q&A session. And, of course, we willcomply with all the Corona regulations here as well. The whole Board of Management is present.
And I would like to introduce you to the individual members. I may start with `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management, our
Chairman of the Board; then we have `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Finance, Member of the Board responsible for
Finances; `Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Development, Member of the Board responsible for Development; `Ilka Horstmeier, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Human Resources,,
Member of the Board responsible for HR and our Labor Director; `Pieter Nota, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Customer, Brands, Sales, Member of the
Board responsible for Customers, Brands and Sales; `Milan Nedeljkovic, Head of Production, the Board member for
Production; and `Andreas Wendt, Director, Purchasing & Supplier Network, Member of the Board responsible for Purchasing and Supplier
Network.
(Operator Instructions)
We will have some short technical remarks and then we stick to our traditional order and we'll
start with the question -- with the first question of person site [ph].
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) And the first question by `Stefan Kroneck, Analyst, Borsen-Zeitung of Borsen-Zeitung. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Stefan Kroneck, Analyst, Borsen-Zeitung
Yeah, good morning. I have three topics that I would like to talk about. So you talked about a year
of transition for the year 2021. You said that over the course of the year, you would expect in
increasingly more volatile development. So, could you clarify the statement a bit.
Then you stated and announced that the pre-tax result of the Group that you want to increase
significantly. So what's the contribution does the Chinese business make to this through your joint
venture BMW Brilliance, which is reflected in the financial result.
And then the last question, the motor show the IAA in Munich 2021, do you expect this exhibition
to happen and that this event will truly be able to happen in the reduced form in our state capital
here in Bavaria?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Thank you, Mr. Kroneck. I have to smile a bit regarding the reduced version of the IAA, but let's
start with the first question, the transition year 2021 and the Group result with our CFO, Nicolas.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Finance `
Well, Mr. Kroneck, first of all, maybe as a starting point here, I said that we had a very strong
fourth quarter 2020 with an EBIT margin in the automotive segment of 7.7% and in spite of the
measures, the pandemic we entered into the new year, we've entered into the new year with the
good momentum. So if you take a transition or if you translate 2020 to 2021, then we expect on
the one hand side very positive momentum stemming from the volume side with positive price
developments -- pricing developments. We can see that the used car markets are very
supportive as regards especially in the United States, but also talked about the clouds that we
see in the sky regarding the semiconductor situation, which we've been able to keep under
control in an excellent way. We didn't have to stop for a single day.
But nevertheless, the risk still continues as I said in my speech, but nevertheless, I'm optimistic
and confident the colleagues in -- the colleagues in purchasing and production will continue towork in such a targeted way on this topic.
And when it comes to commodity prices, it's difficult to foresee, how the situation will develop
over the course of the year. But nevertheless, I'm optimistic that we will stay well in this corridor of
6% to 8% when it comes to the EBIT margin.
Now you've mentioned correctly the China does play an important role for the development of
our business, especially when it comes to the sales side in China. We've had a good start and
also as over the past three quarters of the year 2020 already ever since April, every quarter has
been above the previous level and not just good on the volume side, but also with a very low
level of incentives of support measures and with good momentum after the Chinese New Year.
So I'm optimistic that we're well on track there. But on the other hand, you need to take into
account that the increasing xEV shares. So the share of electrified vehicles will have an influence
on the results.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much, Nicolas. Regarding the motor show at the IAA, Oliver?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Yeah, Munich motor show at the IAA. I mean it's not supposed to be a normal motor show, but
rather a mobility exhibition. That's why it's called IAA Mobility and whether it's possible -- whether
it will be possible to take place that depends on the politicians. I mean we assume that it will take
place and maybe adapt it in a way, but we assume that the exhibition will take place this year. We
support it and we're looking forward to it.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much. The next question please.
Operator
The next question is by `Yann Schreiber, Analyst, AFP of AFP. You have the floor.
Q - `Yann Schreiber, Analyst, AFP
Yeah, hello. Thanks for having me. My first question. I wanted to know whether you can confirm
the impression that the topic of hybrid vehicles is put a little bit into the background compared to
fully electric vehicles, compared to the past when you rely pretty much on hybrids for CO2
emission reductions.
The second question more strategic regarding software in this whole push more digital new
operating system, how much of this is your own development and how much has been bought
from suppliers in this regard?
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much, Mr. Schreiber. I'll pass this on to `Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Development, our Board Member for
Development.
A - `Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Development `
Well, thank you very much for your question, Mr. Schreiber. BEVs will continue to play an importantadequate charging infrastructure and hybrid vehicles therefore offer a great combination of CO2
reduction and electric drive-in and especially during this transition phase to a fully electric future.
BEVs will continue to play an important role that we're the number one in Germany, in Europe and
in the world when it comes to the offer of high plug-in hybrid vehicles. That's why this technology
will accompany the transition and will remain important for us.
The second topic, the digital automotive business is not just the question of your own
developments, but rather how you can combine what you do yourself with what others do for
you. We have more than 10,000 software specialist in a digital company that we've organized
and you could hear in Mr. Zipse's speech that software and hardware thinking both form part of
our company are at the very core of a company and that's been the case for 20 years. Because
we started early on in putting a focus on digitalization that is to say, we have a high degree of our
own work included in the elements that are differentiating for us, but we're also able to include
other software providers and components in a perfect way.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you, Mr. `Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Development. Next question, please.
Operator
(Operator Instructions) The next question is by `Max Hagler, Analyst, Suddeutsche Zeitung of Suddeutsche Zeitung. You have the
floor, Mr. Hagler.
Q - `Max Hagler, Analyst, Suddeutsche Zeitung
Good morning to all of you and thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to ask. So, you
continue to focus on radically -- a radical technology openness in BMW and all drivetrains. The
question is whether this parallel development doesn't get too expensive if you have fuel cell
combustion engine battery development. And if you look at Volvo, Jaguar, and Audi; they
withdraw from the development of new combustion engine. So, what about the investment in
these areas, what -- how do you see this at BMW? And then following this, what about the
profitability of EV as compared to combustion engines?
From which point of the ramp-up of e-vehicles will you be able to get to the 8% to 10% margin
that you're aiming at? Then the second topic I want to ask about the speed limits. Continuous
topic in Germany. Green Party and the SPD are pushing for that. What's the position of BMW
towards the speed limit on the motorways in the Autobahn? And the third topic might be a little
more difficult, China. We see more and more debates about human rights there. China is the
most important single market. What is your reaction? Do you shy away from these debates
because it's such a large market and such a large country or do you rely on the force -- on
economic forces and help the situation to improve?
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Well, Mr. Hagler. Thank you very much. Now we have to -- a lot of deal with. I suggest we start with
the technology openness complex and divide that by two. I'd suggest that `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management will
answer first and then `Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Development on the question of technology openness.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Well, Mr. Hagler, good morning. Well, let's say BMW is a global manufacturer -- a global car
manufacturer. We have a market share in Germany of close to 10%, we have a market share instrategically, we want to grow in the 140 markets that we are present. We cannot assume that
one technology will prevail in all the markets at the same point in time. So we have a perspective,
as I said before, reaching up to the year as I said before, reaching up to the year 2050. And to
early on rely on just one technology and trying to fulfill growth and profitability aim with this. Well,
it's our opinion and I can only speak for us, we don't believe that this will be possible. I think it will
get too expensive if you restrict yourself too early. We will be -- already we lead targeted and
serious discussions with the European Union.
We are in favor of an adoption of target values and I think if we act reasonably, the framework
conditions under which those will be measured will be brought to a good level. And then the
combustion engine will also have a future especially this ability to just not be able to handle one
technology, but to be set up in a much more flexible way to keep our investments more flexible.
That is a skill that we've honed for 10 years now and therefore there is no need for us to focus on
just one technology. What's correct, and I've mentioned this before, is that the percentage -- the
shift in percentages of course goes towards e-mobility. That is what we align ourselves with, but
that does mean that one idea of the other technologies will be finished early on. But I mean if
one day customers don't want a certain type of cars anymore, then will stop producing them. And
Frank, what do you have to add?
A - `Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Development `
Well, let me add that the art for us is to build tool sets and to include more toolkits and include
them in our -- into our production system. So, with the new generation of the iX with high voltage
batteries and electric drivetrain, this can be used all over the production network. We do the
same with architecture if it's about future forms of drivetrains like for example hydrogen cars and
it's -- the art is to turn these modular blocks into architectures and into systems so that we will
keep this flexibility over the 2020 years because you know that full electrification is something
that will not happen overnight, but which is a process that will take a whole decade.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much. The second major complex of topics was regarding profitability, Nicolas
Peter?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Finance `
Mr. Peter here. Mr. Hagler, this is one of the core questions you're asking for. The clear target are
the 8% to 10% of EBIT margin. And I'm very confident that also during the ramp-up of e-mobility,
we will reach this goal. Why is that? Well, on the one hand side and that is what the second half of
the year 2020 clearly showed. We've done our homework both on the cost side, but also on the
efficiency side and we have reached the end of the program in this regard. Then especially when
it comes to enabling our employees and the plants to handle an increasing number of e-vehicles.
All these investments have been dealt with to a large degree. And now as an outlook to 2025,
we'll enter into the next phase. And of course after what we've seen over the past months, I'm
very optimistic that of course the demand regarding the Neue Klasse regarding contribution
margin in that is to be on a comparable level to a combustion engine and we've made great
progress in this regard.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much, Nicolas. The third part of the question was regarding human rights and for
this, I would like to hand over to our purchasing Director, Mr. Wendt.A - `Andreas Wendt, Director, Purchasing & Supplier Network `
Thank you very much for this question. That is certainly a question that drives us as a value-based
company. But I would also like to tell a bit about the dimension of the question that you're asking -
- that you're entering here. We have a global supplier network service and our global production
network including around 7,000 first tier suppliers. 15,000 second tier suppliers, and the number
of suppliers below that I can't even quantify. So nevertheless in spite of this complexity, we try to
include our values and the values include a clear commitment to human rights, to solid working
conditions in all our working relationships. We try to make this as -- turn this into a basis which has
-- which is also linked to the fact that the raw materials for the battery cells are being produced
by ourselves through the battery cell manufacturers to make sure that everything's alright. I mean
this is no guarantee whatsoever, but it shows that it's a topic that is close to our hearts and that
we use all kinds of assessments, analysis, and visits -- local visits to secure that these criteria are
kept and they are also the basis for our purchase and new decisions.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much. Last part of the question. Speed limit, Mr. Zipse?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Well, Mr. Hagler, you know that speed limit in Germany, that's a highly emotional debate. We aim
at having a more factual discussion. We know that it doesn't have that much effect on the climate
to introduce a speed limit. The other major point regarding the speed limit is the increase in
safety. I'm pretty certain that we haven't done everything to make speed dependent from the
amount of traffic and the flow of traffic and I think here we should try to make a next step. I mean
if there's traffic congestion, if there are a lot of cars on the road, then speeds should be reduced.
I mean if there are no cars on the road, then you should keep a situation without speed limits.
And I think we're only at the process of -- at the beginning of this development. The main factor
that leads to accidents is not high speed, but rather speed that isn't adapted to the situation; to
the weather conditions, to the traffic conditions. And I think this is what we should consider
whether there's going to be smarter solutions compared to a general speed limit, which might
be too simple a solution.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much. I can now call up the next question, please.
Operator
We've got a question of `Marco Engelmann, Analyst, Deutsche-Presse Agentur from Deutsche-Presse Agentur. Your line is open,
please.
Q - `Marco Engelmann, Analyst, Deutsche-Presse Agentur
Yes. Good morning into the round. Thank you very much for allowing me to post the question.
This is a bit about your battery strategy. The competitors from Wolfsburg on Monday launched a
big package what they were thinking about particularly in terms of the second half of the decade
to get to batteries and the solution is we will simply build factories either in partnership or alone is
something that remains to be seen. But what about you? You also as far as I can say and I can
see, you have also increased speed or increased the outlook for fully electric vehicles for the
second half of the decade as well. Are you secure by 2030 as far as batteries are concerned andcouldn't strategically things change potentially when it comes to manufacturing of battery cells on
your own or also together with partners? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you, Mr. Engleman. I'll pass this question to `Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Development, Head of Development.
A - `Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Development `
Well, thank you very much for the question. I would like to answer as follows. The battery cell
business will presumably be the business with the highest potential In the next decade. You can
see that when you take into account the advances that we see on the cost side, on the
performance density side, and also the safety and security of battery cells. And therefore more
than 10 years ago, we created our own abilities so that we can understand the cell down to the
last detail. That means we know how it is produced in series, we know which chemicals are
required, and we work together with the partners that we have in optimizing the battery cells. But
at the moment, we think it is clearly wrong to invest in technology too early because it is our goal
not only to have the greenest cell, but also the highest performance cell. And therefore the
flexibility in this partner network is the be all and end all. It goes without saying that we have the
volumes that are necessary to make the ramping up of electrification. We have certainly acquired
that in our partner network in Europe, China, and also Korea with very reliable partners. And
therefore, I can only say we are in a very good position and we can go with every technological
development highly flexibly.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much. The next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from Daniel Svig, (inaudible). Your line is open please, Mr. Svig.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Good morning to you. I would also have three questions. For one thing coming back to what
Volkswagen introduced on Monday, the second point on the agenda was building their own
charging network. Also Porsche made similar announcements. And I would be interested in the
BMW way here. Are you also going to invest in the charging infrastructure, maybe develop an
exclusive charging network for your customers? Second question on the technological
development in different parts of the world. You already hinted at it earlier on. You said China and
Europe will be relatively fast when it comes to electrification. I'd be interested in your view on
other -- and your perception of other regions, particularly when we think about electrification in
the United States and maybe also in which regions combustion engines will survive for a long time
to come. And my third question to Mr. Peter, could you once again explain in simple terms how
comes that if your turnover goes down by 5% and the EBIT decreased by 34% is the fixed cost
share is so dominating that there is such a big difference between those two? So, what's the
reason for that?
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much, Mr. Svik. I would like to subdivide as follows. Charging network, that is Oliver
Zipse's; technology in various different world regions, that should be `Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Development; and your third
question obviously Peter. So, we will start with you, Oliver.A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
We can see together that building the charging infrastructure and that applies to Germany and
that applies all the more to the rest of Europe is too slow in growing. At the moment, the market
for purely electric vehicles is growing four times as fast as the charging infrastructure itself does.
So as far as the charging infrastructure is concerned, at least three different forms of charging
have to be distinguished between. That is charging at home, for one thing that is a dominating
part, about three-quarters of our chargings are happening at home. Then obviously public
charging, that is being discussed in most debates, motorways, and also in cities. And then we
have the employer charging. In all three elements, BMW is doing its part for more than 10 years
and in association.
By a unity where we have a share, by a hub check where we make sure that the standards are the
same everywhere and the billing modalities are the same everywhere, and also via our joint
venture charge now. We've had access in Europe to more than 170,000 charging station and now
as of this year uniform conditions. That means wherever you use your BMW charging card, you
pay the same -- you pay the same price. And we are glad about every activity no matter where it
takes place. This very important topic of charging infrastructure needs to be driven forward and
we do everything that is in our power to do that to support that. But we will not invest in our own
charging infrastructure that is exclusively meant for BMW customers. That doesn't make a whole
lot of sense from our point of view.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much. Then `Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Development.
A - `Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Development `
Yes. Coming back to the charging network, I would like to add to that. We would not have the
idea to build filling stations either. The same goes for charging stations because it's the
throughput -- it's all about the throughput. Then your question about different technological
developments and you said and you were quite right to say so, in different -- they happen in
different timelines really. Europe very demanding so two laws has framework conditions that are
absolutely clear. How high electrification shares have to be in the next couple of years? The same
goes for China. There is also clear industrial policy framework conditions and it's quite clear what
part electrification will play. United States is a bit more difficult as you said yourself and as we can
expect from the new administration, there will be clearer signals now when it comes to
electrification and how electrification will be driven forward with the new BIden administration.
Still for the United States, what remains is that this is the market that's going to be ambivalent for
the longest period of time. As we know from the United States, there will be advocates who will
move in this direction pretty quickly in electrification. Federal states that will move into this
direction very quickly. And we will find other corners in the United States where we will see big
combustion engines, big vehicles for a long time to come. So, we will see both in the United
States. That is the world situation and that's our flexible dealings with different drivetrains are the
be all and end all for a global player like we are.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much. Frank. And maybe I can add to that as far as charging stations are
concerned. Every charging station is a good station when it's built in the world and if BMW can
support that, then this is absolutely a positive thing. Now I would like to go to Mr. Peter when itA - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Finance `
Svik, you almost gave the answer yourself there. Particularly at the end of the first quarter and in
the second quarter, we saw something that we've never seen before in the last couple of years.
That is that almost all the markets went down dramatically -- decreased dramatically in 2020. I
said that we used the situation on the one hand in order to work on our structural improvements.
Obviously I have a couple -- I've mentioned a couple of examples within the framework of the
performance program. What we did not do and that was correct was we did not postpone
product launches and we still continued to work on the future topics as fast as we can. And
therefore, our fixed costs were reduced significantly. And by the way, the mid three-digit costs for
our staff structure program were digested in our results -- in our end of year results and at the
same time we stayed on course not to save -- not to impose savings when it comes to the future.
And therefore, we were in a position in the second half year to drive out of the crisis positively
and give a good outlook in terms of perspective.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much, Nicolas. I've got a written question that reached us for `Pieter Nota, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Customer, Brands, Sales. Can we
make initial statements on the sales performance in the first two months?
A - `Pieter Nota, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Customer, Brands, Sales `
Well, thank you very much, Max. We started pretty strongly into 2021 as opposed to the previous -
- the same time in the previous years. Per February, that's the month, January and February taken
together, our sales were increased by almost 25% -- to be precise by 24.5% higher than the
same time in the previous year and that is driven in particular by strong demand in China. So we
see high readiness to consume in China, but also a strong demand for electrified vehicles. In the
first two month, our sales of electrified vehicles was more than doubled as opposed -- year-on-
year.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much, Pieter. Next question, please.
Operator
Now we've got `Markus Fasse, Analyst, Handelsblatt from Handelsblatt in the line. Thank you.
Q - `Markus Fasse, Analyst, Handelsblatt
Good morning. I've got two question complexes. The one relates to the announcement of the
Neue Klasse. At CIBSE, you chose this historical hint with the Neue Klasse in the early 1960s that
radically changed the outlook of the Company and after the launch of this Neue Klasse as far as I
remember, there weren't any models anymore there that had been there before. So generally
speaking, the whole product portfolio was exchanged and therefore my question here, what
about the Neue Klasse 2025? How is it going to be integrated into the model range? Is it going
to be one size fits all from Mini to the 7 series? Will there even be 3 Series, 5 Series, 7 Series, X
models or is it going to be a uniform car? How can we understand that?
And coming back to drivetrains, is it going to be the case that it's going to be electric first or is it
going to be electric only? Maybe you can tell me what kind of plans you have there. Second
question relates to mobility services that you haven't mentioned at all in your whole introduction
and with a view to '25 -- 2025, 2030, is it still strategically interesting what you do with Daimler inNOW? You keep selling stuff out of there. There are rumors cropping up that even more is going
to be sold. Specifically what about the car sharing share now? Are you in negotiations to sell that
as well or do you want to retain that? Thank you very much.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much, `Markus Fasse, Analyst, Handelsblatt. For the first part Neue Klasse, I'm betting on our
development CEO with our CEO of the Board. And first of all, I will give the podium to Frank
Weber.
A - `Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Development `
Yes. The Neue Klasse indeed is off to new shows for BMW. And the analogy to the 1960s hasn't
been chosen arbitrarily by us because the Neue Klasse is based on the new cluster architecture
as we call it. And this new cluster architecture, which is going to be consistently electric, digital,
and sustainable is indeed the new building principle for the whole BMW portfolio. That is
supposed to cover the whole BMW portfolio, but that means as you said in your question one
size fits all, not. That is not what it means, You see that even now we are in a position with our
architectural approaches to be very, very flexible between starting vehicles -- the biggest vehicles
in our portfolio. We can play, we can flexibly play. And you can be sure that the BMW product
portfolio will use this new architecture, it's true;l but there is certainly no limitation in the product
portfolio because if that.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much. Frank. Oliver, please.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Fasse, I'm thinking that there are a number of parallels to the time when the new architecture
then more than 60 years ago was rolled out and o back then it was simply about having a new
drivetrain concept for BMW. What became of it they hadn't known at that time and the Neue
Klasse meant a transformation, a new time off to new shows and that's also what we want to do
with the Neue Klasse. Because the drivetrain concept, as `Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Development just explained it. is going to
be significantly different. We don't want to talk about platforms for certain reasons, but it will
always have an electric rear axis and where this is going them to take us, the times will show. We
will launch it in the market in 2025. It will leave its footprint on the brand. There will be strong
BMWs launched. And the target with this Neue Klasse is not the time between 2025 and 2030,
but it goes up to 2050. This drivetrain form that can develop no doubt the same way as it was
with the old Neue Klasse, which also developed in the late 1960s. It's the same here. It's
supposed to accompany to the year 2050 -- it's supposed to carry us to the year 2050. And
we've got this commitment of being CO2 neutral and it's an important building block on the way
there.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Second topical complex was mobility services for instance SHARE NOW. Nicolas, please.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Finance `
Fasse, as far as rumors are concerned, I'm not going to comment on rumors. But mobility services
as far as they're concerned, there is a lot I can tell you. For one thing and you know that since
2011, we've been in the mobility services business. In 2019 we threw things together with Daimleroperative business developed quite well actually. And what is very, very relevant is in particular
the topic ChargeNow. With ChargeNow, we've got access to more than 180,000 charging points
for our customers of electrified vehicles on a global scale. And of these, more than 11,000 are
fast-charging points and this is something that also via ionity where we're also participating
together with other OEMs and where we will step up things in building the charging
infrastructures in Europe. Altogether, we will do more here. As far as SHARE NOW is concerned, I
won't comment on that apart from the fact that operatively speaking, we move in the right
direction.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Next question?
Operator
Now we have a question by the Sabini Goosebed [ph] of Euro [ph]. You have the floor.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Good morning. Two questions on the figures. On the one hand side, could you please tell us
about the savings connected to short-time labor and could you tell us against the backdrop of the
social responsibility that you underlined that you still want to pay a dividend in spite of the support
you got for short-time labor from the federal government? And then a question regarding
consolidation, maybe you could explain to us how those have changed over the course of the
year because I remember the first half of the year when they had quite a clear effect. And then a
question on Brilliance, so when will this be fully consolidated?
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much Ms. Goosebed. I would say we start with some general remarks on short-
time work with Ms. Horstmeier and then I would hand over to Mr. Peter.
A - `Ilka Horstmeier, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Human Resources, `
Thank you very much for the question, Ms. Goosebed. I think it's important to understand that last
year we had some short-time work in the months of April and May at the time when we were in a
lockdown situation and we used this after all the flexible instruments that we have as the BMW
Group have been used up before that and that's our rule. That's also the rule of the labor agency
-- the German labor agency. And I think what's important to mention is that of course this is a
social benefit and not a tax financed benefit. So, employers and employees pay to the social
benefit insurance and the welfare insurances and that is exactly what we have these contributions
for. And therefore we don't see a conflict here between the support for short-term work and the
dividend.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Nicolas, would you like to answer that -- add to this?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Finance `
Yes, Ms. Goosebed. On the one hand side, our employees pay a low three-digit million amount
each and every year into these insurance networks. We have -- in the year 2020 we received
about the same sum. So, this was basically a zero-sum game in the end. And our dividend policy
is a sustainable one with a clear corridor of 30% to 40% payout ratio. So with this, we are on acomparable level percentage-wise as in 2019 at 32.5% and of course that's led to a reduction of
the dividend because our earnings have gone down. And the next question the was will BBA be
consolidated. This will happen according to plan in the next year. That was the agreement that we
entered into two years ago together with our Chinese partner.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much. We have another question in writing, which goes to our Head of Production.
And that is the question whether all plants right now are fully utilized in the global network? Milan?
A - `Milan Nedeljkovic, Head of Production `
Thank you very much for the question. Last year due to the corona situation, we had a very
dynamic environment. But then in a very short time frame, we increased production again and
came to the -- back to normal production. We even reached top levels in the US and China
regarding production and that is what we started with this year and therefore utilization is now
very solid and very good over the whole production network.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much. Then we'll switch from the German speaking countries now to the English
colleagues. The next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from `Peter Campbell, Analyst, Financial Times of Financial Times. You have the floor, Mr.
Campbell.
Q - `Peter Campbell, Analyst, Financial Times `
Good morning, gentlemen. I'll ask my question in English if I may. Three very brief questions. Can
you -- are you yet in a position where you can quantify the financial impact of the chip shortage
this year? I know you said you're still within your guidance window. Second question, do you have
a date in mind when you will totally end sales of internal combustion engines globally even if it's
far away? And thirdly, it's about MINI and Oxford. Will Oxford remain the center of MINI production
once the brand is fully electric and does that mean that eventually you're going to need to make
batteries in the UK as the electric volumes ramp up? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much. So, the first point was about semiconductors or chips and the financial
effects. And just to give a general feeling about the semiconductor topic.
A - `Andreas Wendt, Director, Purchasing & Supplier Network `
I will take this, okay. Mr. Campbell, so the general supply situation all over the world is quite tight
as we've mentioned before, which is due to the fact that in some cases the -- one or the other
market participant have quite low plans for 2021 and we're certainly not amongst those. We
ordered in full for the whole year and that's why we also demand to get the supply from our
partners. But you also have to see that the semiconductor market is also in high demand from
other industries and that the resupply times for these parts are very long. So all in all, it's a
bottleneck situation and we've tried to focus together with our partners to make sure that we get
the necessary supply so that the production which is running at full throttle as you've heard will be
secured. And we are dealing less with the question of the risks. Should they occur, then we are ofcourse in the framework of what a stop of production might mean, but we consider the solutions
or try to consider the solutions.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you, Mr. Wendt. Nicolas, financial influence.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Finance `
Well, so far it hasn't had any financial effect on us because we haven't lost any production thanks
to the great efforts of our colleagues in purchasing. And I assume that we will be able to continue
it this way at least where we're working on that with high pressure. We are working basically day
and night to secure the supply. Can we exclude it fully? No, we can't but in our guidance of 6% to
8%, we assume that we will pass the situation as good as we've done so far.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Okay. That was the clear expectation of our CFO to the supply to the purchasing network. And
then the question regarding ICE stop, when will BMW sell its last combustion engine? Frank?
A - `Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Development `
Well, currently we're working on the cleanest and most efficient generation of combustion
engines ever. Why is that important? Well, they will have to face the toughest emission
requirements and have to -- in the 2020 years and will have to fulfill them. So, this generation will
carry us through the decade. And it's not us who decides about the end of the ICE, but it's the
markets. You've seen that the ramp-up of electrical driving depends a lot on the charging
infrastructure, what kind of infrastructure will be available in individual countries. And therefore,
we can only say that we have a flexibility -- a high degree of flexibility between electrical engines
and combustion engines so that we're both suited and can respond whether the end of the
combustion engine will come sooner or later. But the generation we're working on will carry us
through the coming decade.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
And then the last question will Oxford remain the center for MINI. `Milan Nedeljkovic, Head of Production, a question
for you.
A - `Milan Nedeljkovic, Head of Production `
Thank you very much for the question. Mr. Campbell. As you've said, our Oxford plant is the home
of MINI and especially over the last year we were very dynamic there working a three shift model
at the time we launched the MINI Electric there and we decided also the following generation of
MINI vehicles to be produced will be -- will remain in Oxford. So for us, the Oxford plant is
secured for MINI for us. But what we will do at the same time is that we will also produce the MINI
Countryman in Leipzig. We will launch it there for the first time in the BMW plant from 2023. And
we also have a Chinese joint venture regarding Electric MINI, which shows that we are highly
committed to the brand MINI and that we are focused on this brand as well.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much. The next question, please.
OperatorThe next question by Eric Patten of (inaudible) Please go ahead. The floor is yours.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Hi. Do you hear me? So, I have two questions. The first one was about no longer outsourcing
battery production and you have already answered my colleague, but perhaps to clarify. In the
long term when the technology is stabilized, do you plan to produce your battery chemistry in-
house? And my second question is about hydrogen -- hydrogen mobility, what do you think of this
solution? Do you think it's a solution you are seriously exploring?
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much., Two questions. First of all regarding battery production -- battery cell
production and then hydrogen -- the hydrogen technology. I would like to hand this over to Mr.
Weber.
A - `Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Development `
Well, as I stated before, the dynamic environment of the technological development regarding
battery cells will lead to the fact that for quite some time at least for a decade, we will have major
leaps ahead every three to four years as we can foresee now what the battery generations will
offer in the late 2020s. That is due because the time spent from development to high
industrialization is pretty long. So, we now know what will come at the end of the 2020s. We can
tell you that the 2030s might see a stabilization, but there will then be industrial decisions which
we will have to take in 10 years' time. So, much about battery cells and therefore I'm glad that we
can cooperate highly flexible with our partners in this regard.
When it comes to hydrogen, I would like to say the following. In our architectures today and also
in the future architectures, we take hydrogen as a fuel into consideration and we want to make
sure that also hydrogen drivetrains will be possible in our architectures. And as each and every
one of us will understand, this is a matter that will be driven from the side of the commercial
business or from trucks first of all -- from commercial vehicles, then we will see how the
infrastructure might develop. So it could be that at the top end of our portfolio, hydrogen
solutions will become possible.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much. The next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from (inaudible) from Autoweek. Is your line open, (inaudible)? Are you
muted by any chance?
Q - Unidentified Participant
Yes, I'm here. Thank you. My question for Mr. Zipse. What do you expect to be the share of fully
electric sales of BMW in Europe especially by 2030? And aren't you worried that the EU is going
to ban all the combustion engines by then or maybe a few years later?
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much. Oliver?A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Yes. I should answer in German. This is going to be translated for you. As I said already, in the
European Union we're thinking about 50% fully electric vehicles by 2030, but it's the markets who
will decide that or which will decide that. And then Europe with 27 different markets, we will see
completely different developments. We will see markets that completely switch to electric and
then we will also see markets also within Europe that will only start in 10 years to build the
infrastructure for that. But one thing that also drives our decisions is how does the charging
infrastructure develop and it only makes sense to drive an electric vehicle if they are run by
sustainable electricity. And for this, we need to build the infrastructure and for that reason,
combustion engines are still important.
Electricity cannot be stored or at least it cannot be stored in a scalable way. However, this applies
to combustion fuels so all forms of transportable sustainably developed fuels, hydrogen, and also
e-fuels are still on our list because the framework conditions for sustainable electricity production
and scalability for e-mobility are not ascertained yet. We're fighting for that also within the
European Automotive Association, but we're not quite there yet. We're at the beginning of a
longer-term development and so far technology openness is very important for us.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much. I've got a written question here once again. Once again on the topic of
battery production and particularly under the term delivery contracts and I would like to pass it on
to Mr. Wendt once again.
A - `Andreas Wendt, Director, Purchasing & Supplier Network `
Well, I understand the question as follows. How well are we secured and how does that also
distribute in our global network? I already said that we're trying to sort things globally and that
also applies to battery cells. Apart from manufacturers in Asia, in the meantime we've also got
manufacturers in Europe and the global footprint will be broadened in this direction obviously.
Our approach is such that we are very strongly trying to be development partners with the
battery manufacturers. We try to develop the batteries together with them and we want to be
partners that are appreciated at a high level with them. We've got our own battery development,
a large engineering center, where we dive deeply into battery manufacturing and battery cell
technology and we're trying to build state-of-the-art technology there. And then it's also very
important that on the raw material side and also in the energy side in the manufacturing, we want
to implement our yardsticks together with our partners and we are on a very good way here and
on a very solid level here.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Mr. Wendt, thank you very much. We've got some 10 minutes left for your questions. So, I can call
for the next question, please.
Operator
We've got mixed signals from `William Wilkins, Analyst,  News from  News. Wilkins, do you still want to
ask a question  News?
Q - `William Wilkins, Analyst,  News `Yes, please. And yes, good morning. Here's `William Wilkins, Analyst,  News from  News. I had a
question on your new electric vehicle architecture. Is that something you can envisage developing
with partners such as Ford or anyone else to kind of develop the scale needed for higher
profitability? And a question on Brexit. Are you now seeing now that the new trading
arrangements have had a bit of time to settle, do you see permanently higher costs in business
across the channel and are you going to have to increase the price of models further to account
for that in each direction, UK, EU, and the new UK? Thank you.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
I'd say we'll start with the topic of Brexit, `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Finance. And when it comes to architecture, I'll give
to `Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Development. Nicolas, first of all,
A - `Nicolas Peter, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Finance `
William, first of all the risk. The risk of price increases has been first of all minimized or is off the
table because of the agreements that they've come up with at the very last minute. But we still
have challenges, particularly when it comes to customs clearance on both sides of the channel. I
just hope that on both sides the necessary investments will be made in order to make customs
clearances more smooth to guarantee that everything goes smoothly. But the big risk at the
moment is off the table.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much, Nicolas. Frank?
A - `Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Development `
Yes. The answer do we open up in order to get scale -- scalable effects? The answer to that is
absolutely no because we are so experienced with using our building blocks that we are in a
position to create the scalable effects also in-house. Take the example of battery cells. If you see
our need, we are already in a position here to buy gigawatt hours at giga factories so there are
no scale effects here -- scaling effects. And when we are in a position to use our own technology
solutions, port networks, and so on. If we are in a solution to use those possibilities cleverly within
BMW, then it's the best way of creating scale.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much. As I hear, we go back to the German speaking area and I'll ask you for the
next question.
Operator
Next question is from `Alexander Kain, Analyst, Passauer Neue Presse from Passauer Neue Presse. Your line is open, Mr. Kain.
Q - `Alexander Kain, Analyst, Passauer Neue Presse `
Yes. And I'd be interested in the topic of employees and workforce. What about Bavaria when it
comes to your workforce? What about the rest of the world? Where does it go up, where does it
go down? Then as far as the Neue Klasse is concerned, I'd the interested in is it only the product
that is (inaudible) or also production and occupation? Will the Neue Klasse also lead to a situation
where the workforce can be reduced that you produce less yourself and you produce more
abroad in the continent? Thank you very much.A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Okay. That's quite fitting to both `Milan Nedeljkovic, Head of Production and `Ilka Horstmeier, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Human Resources,. Milan, let's start with you
with this one.
A - `Milan Nedeljkovic, Head of Production `
Yes. Mr. Kain, thank you very much for your question. When it comes to workforce and also the
Neue Klasse, we -- as far as electro mobility is concerned, we've got -- we are creating value
ourselves to a high degree. We produced a high voltage storage, we've got the cell modules that
we are producing ourselves, and we've also got competence centers for electric drivetrains with
control equipment and with gears for the manufacturing. We're building this up in various different
locations and we see that in compensation to the combustion engines as far as the workforce
situation is concerned, things are going rather smoothly. Currently in our plant in Dingolfing where
we have our competence center for e-mobility, in the next couple of years we're increasing the
number of the workforce by 2,000 staff and that shows how e-mobility creates new jobs.
Certainly with the new architecture, we will implement efficiency goals. We try to also set new
factors for economic approaches and cost. But if we see the increase in volume and if we see
that we are investing into new technologies, over the medium term we don't see a problem for
jobs -- the number of jobs.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
Ilka, effects altogether on the workforce, also with a focus on Bavaria?
A - `Ilka Horstmeier, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Human Resources, `
Kain, first of all thank you very much for your question. And I would like to add to what Mr.
Nedeljkovic said. For us it's very important to say that transformation doesn't happen overnight.
We look into the future particularly with our strategic staff planning and workforce planning. What
Mr. Nedeljkovic says is absolutely right. We're already looking forward right now. We do electro
mobility to a large share on our own and in lower Bavaria, lot of jobs are being created; but also
in other Bavarian locations because we are creating a lot on our own. The same goes for the
Neue Klasse and for everything that is supposed to come there. We will observe that very closely.
And our own competence is the competencies we have in Bavaria and in Saxony, we will use in a
targeted manner for these new technologies. That's what we stand for together, Mr. Nedeljkovic
and I, and we will take a close look at that in the next couple of months.
What is important for me and we already mentioned that is the whole topic of qualification and
rebuilding competencies. That is the key to go into the future with our associates. And the same
goes for the plant in Munich and for the colleagues in Dingolfing and other locations. And that's
why we're investing massively into this topic of further education, training, qualification. 50,000
associates have already been trained in electro mobility and this will go on with the offensive.
With the qualification offensive, we will have 75,000 more participants in future technology
topics; electro mobility, digitalization, data analytics; and that's what we bet on our associates to
take them into this transformation process and to act forward looking like we did it in Munich.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, BMW Group, Director Corporate Affairs `
I think there couldn't have been a better close to this. Thank you, `Ilka Horstmeier, Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG, Human Resources,, regarding
qualification and the responsibility towards our employees. So ladies and gentlemen, dear
colleagues, that's the end of our annual conference. All the best to all of you. Stay in good health,that's the most important point. And I hope that we will be able to meet again in the near future.
So, all the best and goodbye to all of you.