Y 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Ladies and gentlemen, a very warm welcome to the BMW Group's Annual Conference.
Unfortunately, this event only taking place virtually this year. I'd like to thank you very much all of
our colleagues that have joined us online around the globe. I'd like to start by pointing out
everybody present in front of and behind the camera, have been tested negative for
Coronavirus. And we are complying with all the necessary health and safety regulations.
Dear colleagues, of course, we had initially imagined that this event would take place under
different circumstances. Now in my role, as BMW AG's General Manager, please allow me to
begin my remarks by commenting on the current geopolitical landscape and how it affects the
BMW Group.
The images and news from Ukraine we have seen for the past few weeks touched all of us. This,
of course, holds especially true for all the lives and people that are directly affected. Now, the
BMW Group has acted swiftly and decisively. As one immediate humanitarian measure, we've
provided EUR1 million for affected children, to our partner UNICEF. Additional measures are going
to follow. Furthermore, together with our market organizations, we are assessing what we can do
in the Ukraine's neighboring countries in order to improve the humanitarian situation.
The Ukraine is, of course, home to many suppliers, hence, we too will have to face production
interruptions and supply disruptions for important components. Together with our suppliers, we
have been intensively working on solutions to ensure our plants' supplies as quickly as possible.
To do so, we are setting up alternative structures as well.The Munich and Dingolfing plants are going to resume production over the course of this week.
Only at MINI in Oxford, production will still be disrupted this week. But what is clear is that this
situation will remain volatile. I mean, in this current situation in particular, we need strong
companies to ensure our economic and financial systems and the supply chain all continue to
work. People from all over the world and almost all countries and cultures are working right here
at the BMW Group. In our main plant in Munich alone, we have employed people from over 70
countries. It is this diversity that makes us strong.
Now, of course, who better to explain how we can use this strength in the interest of our
customers than the Chairman of the Board of Management of BMW AG. Please welcome with
me, `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management & Chief Executive Officer.
Oliver you value facts always and analyze things clearly and precisely. Technology is crucial to you
and that's why, of course, you will first explain to us how BMW Group approaches the
technological transformation. Then after that, our CFO, Dr.`Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board will present the numbers
for 2021. And after that again, we will come back to you Oliver for the strategic outlook.
With that being said, Oliver, over to you.
`Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The BMW Group has proven time and time again that it
can master challenging situations, emerging even stronger than before. Think about the global
economic and financial crisis, the COVID-19 pandemic or the semiconductor supply shortages.
In unpredictable times, it is even more important to do the right thing. For us, this currently means
three things. First, we are helping out wherever our assistance is needed. `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental has
just gave an overview of the Group's position. Our thoughts are with all those who are suffering
as well as with our suppliers and our partners.
The BMW Group stands for both the peaceful coexistence of all cultures and free global trade,
which brings people closer together and leads to progress and prosperity in every region of the
world. Second, we are working to secure and keep our operating business running, because we
can only provide effective support for others and serve the common good, if we as a company
are able to perform in a strong manner. And third, we are also continuing to work tirelessly
towards our long-term goals. This is our most fundamental task and it is what BMW is all about. If
we fail to do this, we lose valuable time.
The commitment to climate neutrality is the huge task for the global community. We must all act
intensively and without delay. The BMW Group has a robust capital structure. We are a highly
flexible global company that calls all regions of the world, home. Even in the current situation, we
will not change our long-term perspective.
For us, every year is just the next step in our BMW journey. We will make a difference to create
value that our customers ask for, to generate meaningful added value. To do so, we balance the
legitimate demands of all stakeholders because we all need to live with and benefit from
mobility. We also view demand environment as an important stakeholder. We were the first
German automotive manufacturer to join the business ambition for 1.5 degrees C campaign
launched by the Science Based Targets Initiative. As a result, our road to climate neutrality in
2050 follows the scientifically validated transparent path that expands the entire value chain. That
is my understanding of holistic responsibility.Global markets develop at different speeds, and to have a maximum impact on the climate, we
need a diversity of technological solutions and offerings, because our future will be decided by
technologies. Customers expect tech magic products that fascinate. This car right here was one
of the highlights of the CES in Las Vegas in January this year. It perfectly embodies what we aim
to do at BMW. Technological innovations that inspire people, and we have shown what is possible
and we definitely achieve that with the iX Flow.
Digitalized vehicles are created in a digitalized company. We are pioneering the use of artificial
intelligence in our industry. Several hundred AI applications are already being used in our
production phase alone. We are creating a virtual image of production processes in our global
network, a revolution in factory planning. Further digitalizing processes and structures at lowest
cost, improves quality and efficiency and helps us reach our sustainability goals quickly and
effectively.
Our aim is to lead the transformation of our industry. This will require adaptability as well as
resilience. This means, reliability, stability and operational excellence on the one hand, and
courage, disruption and forging our own technology-based path on the other hand. These
characteristics can turn transformation into a competitive advantage for us because in this
process we can fully exploit our renowned BMW capabilities.
Let me give you few examples. We are accelerating our e-mobility ramp up exactly in line with the
growing demand through a continuously growing portfolio. By the end of 2025, we aim to have
delivered more than 2 million fully electric vehicles to customers. By 2030, at least half of our
global deliveries should be battery electric vehicles, and we are doing everything we can do to
meet this goal even earlier. By then, our BEV sales could already surpass 1.5 million per year,
depending among other things on how quickly the charging infrastructure expands worldwide and
how the supply of raw materials for batteries shapes up.
The BMW i Vision Circular is our look ahead to what sustainable and luxurious mobility could look
like in the urban environment of 2040. With this vehicle, BMW has impressively laid claim to the
next big cross-industry topic of circularity and defined it for itself. In 2025, we will embark on
Phase 3 of our transformation with the truly major leap in technology. The Neue Klasse will be
built on our new vehicle architecture, this means digital and circular and the sustainability,
substantially improved efficiency for uncompromising e-mobility.
Our future Gen-6 drivetrain generation enables lower costs, enhanced performance, new-cell
chemistry and also new cell formats. The profitability of the Neue Klasse, therefore, needs to be
on par with vehicles that have state-of-the-art internal combustion engines. BMW is to remain an
attractive investment. With the launch of the Neue Klasse at our new plant in Hungary in 2025,
we're also taking our production network into new spheres lean, green and digital. We are
preparing every plan for this. We call it the BMW i factory.
The car is becoming a digital device and BMW is right at the forefront. Independent from the
drivetrain technology, we also offer over-the-art remote software upgrades. In this way, BMW has
the world's largest fleet that can be upgraded continuously. We are collaborating with the best
tech players in all regions of the world and with partners from other industries. For example,
within the framework of Catena-X, when it comes to all solid state batteries, we believe we have
the strongest partner in this field with solid power.
We are establishing long-term cooperation with Qualcomm Technologies and Arriver to develop
next-generation software for driver assistance systems and automated driving. Together, we will
provide industry-leading software functions for automated driving, ranging from new carassessment program Level 2 and Level 2 plus driving assistance systems, all the way to Level 3
high automated driving functions.
Our BMW Brilliance Automotive joint venture has been fully consolidated in the Group financial
statements of BMW AG since February. With this move, the BMW Group is taking its growth to the
next level. BMW continues to be a long-standing partner of China and the Liaoning province.
China is a driving force and pacesetter for digital trends, and we will now be even closer to
customers there, keeping our finger on the digital pulse.
Last week, we have secured the trademark rights of the ALPINA brand. In doing so, we will ensure
the longevity of this brand, while leading into a new future on the basis of its rich tradition. All
these examples show; we are levering the transformation with purpose in order to highlight our
strengths.
Our success benefits many different stakeholders. Our employees in Germany will receive their
profit sharing bonus, which they definitely earn with their performance in 2021. We are also
proposing a higher dividend for our shareholders and we are hiring new staff and plan to increase
workforce by up to 5% this year.
Our customers profit from technological diversity. Our attractive models make it easier for them
to transition to emission-free e-mobility. Including the pre-series models, we will have 15 BEVs in
production this year. And last but not least, the climate also benefits, that's most important to us.
In 2021, we significantly over fulfilled the EU CO2 requirements and outperformed the target by
about 10 grams per kilometer. All drive technologies contributed to this.
Our successful transformation is good for everyone, as you can see. And we consider it a
privilege to be able to operate independently in this process and make long-term investments.
We received the support we need for this from our motivated team. I noticed this whenever I talk
to associates and this is not just my gut feeling. Our global employee survey clearly showed that
the team backs the company and that we have found the right balance between disruption on
the one hand and stability on the other. In 2021, the company achieved all-time highs in important
key figures, and we aim to maintain this financial strength in this fiscal year 2022.
Dr.`Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board will now talk about our performance in 2021 in more detail and present our
targets for 2022 to you. We will see each other again here in a bit to discuss our strategic outlook.
This will also include a first glimpse at the new 7 Series. Stay tuned. Thank you very much so far.
(Audio-video Presentation)
`Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The images that we see on a daily basis from Ukraine, it
makes it very difficult to go back to the day-to-day. We mustn't close our eyes in light of the ever-
present human suffering. We have to be fast and decisive in helping those who need it the most.
Max and Oliver have already just explained to you how we as a company contribute to this.
Let's now look back to the past year. Despite challenging conditions, the BMW Group once again
achieved its goals in all segments. Our positive business performance is reflected in our strong
financial results for the past year. An EBIT margin of 10.3% for our automotive business puts us at
the upper end of our adjusted target range as expected. The free cash flow in the automotive
segment amounted to EUR6.4 billion as forecast. We also met our non-financial targets in
particular, the further reduction of our CO2 fleet emissions.The rating agencies, Moody's and Standard & Poor's have also recognized the BMW Group's
positive business development, and revised their outlook upwards over the course of the year.
We have now published our financial statement in our integrated BMW Group report for the
second time. In addition to financial key figures, we have also expanded our reporting to include
non-financial indicators fully in line with SASB standards. The information on the EU taxonomy was
also included for the very first time.
Let's now take a look at the business development in detail. After a difficult 2020 due to the
pandemic, 2021 was no less demanding. Despite problems with semiconductor supplies, we
came through the year relatively well, and took advantage of opportunities to further improve
price realization worldwide. At this point, I would like to thank the many colleagues in all areas of
the company, who continue to show extraordinary commitment. In particular, of course, our
thoughts are with the many employees of our suppliers in Ukraine.
After a strong first half year, semiconductor supply issues intensified as expected in the second
half of the year. Fixed costs, which increased as planned towards the end of the year also had an
impact.
Now for the full-year, revenues climbed to around EUR111 billion, against the backdrop of positive
pricing for new and pre-owned vehicles, and the higher volume of sales. The significantly higher
financial result primarily reflects the positive earnings contribution of our Chinese joint venture
BBA, which increased by more than 40%. Valuation effects including interest rate hedging
instruments also had a positive impact.
Group earnings before tax increased significantly to around EUR16 billion. Now the previous year
have been weak due to the pandemic and at 14%, the Group EBIT margin was well above our
long-term minimum target of 10%. Strong pricing for new and pre-owned vehicles in particular
was a key driver for earnings. We also delivered more vehicles to customers than in the previous
year.
And finally, there were positive one-time effects we have already communicated. This included
the partial reversal of the provisions for the EU antitrust proceedings and the modernization of
the pension scheme for employees in Germany.
Ladies and gentlemen, our strategic approach remain focused on emission-free mobility. The
new all-electric BMW iX and these 40 BMW i4 are once again demonstrating our technology
leadership. Our order books are filled very well. The BMW i7, which we will present to you in April
will once again set the new standards in all major areas of innovation, especially of course,
electrification, digitalization, including for example, the rear seat entertainment and in highly
automated driving.
Our sixth generation electric drivetrains developed in-house will bring further major steps in
efficiency and range. Now, for this and other future projects as well as in our global production
network and new models, we've invested a total of around EUR5 billion in 2021. The CapEx ratio
of 4.5% was below our target figure of 5% as planned.
With the full consolidation of BBA, where extensive plant expansions are currently underway, we
expect a slightly higher ratio of around 5% for 2022. I will address the details of the impact of the
full consolidation later.
Our research and development expenditure remains at a high level with a priority on emission-
free mobility. In addition to expenses for new models, a major focus in 2021 was on preparations
for the Neue Klasse, which is scheduled to ramp up in the middle of the decade. R&D costs,according to IFRS increased to EUR6.3 billion. The R&D ratio, according to the German
Commercial Code was at 6.2%, which was in line with our expectation.
In 2022, the ratio will be back within our long-term target range of 5% to 5.5%, also due to the full
consolidation of our Chinese joint venture BBA. Today, well over half of our total investments are
in the future field of e-mobility, digitalization and highly automated driving.
Ladies and gentlemen, this year in recognition of this positive business development, our
employees in Germany will also enjoy the highest profit sharing bonus so far for the financial year
2021. Furthermore, last autumn, we expanded the preferred stock program for employees in
Germany, which has been in place since 1989, which of course, have enjoyed a very positive
response.
We also want our shareholders to participate in the company's success. The Board of
Management and the Supervisory Board will propose a dividend of EUR5.80 per share of
common stock and EUR5.82 per share of preferred stock to the Annual General Meeting. This
represents a payout ratio of 30.7%, which is within our long-term strategic target range of 30% to
40%.
Already today, the BMW Group has a healthy balance sheet and the potential to generate
sustainably high free cash flow. The full consolidation of the BBA in the BMW Group financial
statements from February onwards will further increase this potential. The Board of Management
and Supervisory Board will therefore propose to the Annual General Meeting that the Board of
Management will be authorized to repurchase and retire reacquired shares. This would create the
option of returning available capital to the shareholders via share repurchases in addition to the
annual dividend.
Ladies and gentlemen, let's now take a closer look at the business development in 2021 in the
individual segments. In total, we were able to deliver more than 2.5 million vehicles to customers
last year in the automotive segment. And this includes over 100,000 all-electric cars. The
segment's operating earnings totaled almost EUR10 billion and a 10.3% the EBIT margin is at the
upper end of our adjusted target range as forecast. The year-on-year comparison mainly
reflected the positive effects of improved pricing and higher volumes.
Our after sales business also saw significant growth. The exceptionally strong residual value
development was another factor that contributed to the increase. Ongoing efficiency measures
from our performance program also took effect in 2021.
The partial reversal of the provision of the EU antitrust proceedings as well as the valuation effect
of modernizing the pension scheme for employees in Germany also had a positive effect. Higher
research and development spending in particular for the further ramp up of e-mobility due to
very strong demand as well as for digitalization, dampened EBIT much more than the previous
year as we had expected. Now, the net balance of raw material prices and currency effects
resulted in a headwind in the mid-three-digit million euro range again as forecast.
The positive operating result was also the main driver for strong cash development in the
financial year 2021. The free cash flow in the automotive segment totaled EUR6.4 billion, despite
higher capital expenditure, and therefore, met our expectations, and our guidance. In contrast to
the previous year, does not include an inflow from BBA's dividend payment.
For 2022, we expect a free cash flow of at least EUR12 billion, which include an expected one-
time cash inflow of about EUR5 billion from the BBA cash full consolidation. This consists of a
positive effect from recognizing BBA's liquid assets in the balance sheet for the first time.However, this effect is partially offset by payment of the acquisition price of around EUR3.7 billion.
The strong free cash flow in the financial year 2021 is also reflected positively in the BMW Group's
liquidity position. Now in preparation for payment of the purchase price for increasing our
shareholding in our Chinese joint venture BBA, the company had increased its liquidity to EUR20.3
billion at the end of last year.
Let us now turn to financial services and respective segment, which posted pre-tax earnings at a
high level of EUR3.75 billion in 2021, mostly due to the favorable risk situation. Now, the number of
new contracts, with retail customers climbed by 6.6% year-on-year to almost 2 million, and at the
same time, the average financing volume per vehicle also increased. Residual values and credit
risks improved significantly from the previous year, which have been negatively impacted by the
pandemic.
The return on equity of 22.6% was at the high end of our adjusted target range of 20% to 23%.
We review our risk provisioning on an ongoing basis, taking into account, all relevant current
developments. From today's perspective, we have continued to make appropriate provisions for
our business risks.
The motorcycle segment also delivered a very strong performance in 2021, with five new models
and three model updates in the pipeline. With total sales of more than 194,000 units worldwide,
we reported strong growth in all regions, especially of course, our strategic growth markets, the
United States and China. At 8.3%, the EBIT margin was within our target range of 8% to 10%. Pre-
tax earnings more than doubled year-on-year to almost EUR230 million.
Now last but not least, let us move on to the other entities segment and the inter-segment
eliminations. As expected, the net balance for pre-tax earnings of EUR274 million was significantly
lower than the previous year as expected. Positive valuation effects from interest rate hedging
instruments driven by higher interest rates were more than offset by higher inter-segment
eliminations caused by the increased leasing business volume.
Ladies and gentlemen, let's now turn our attention to the current year. As you know, we have
increased our stake in our Chinese joint venture BBA to 75% as expected and extended the joint
venture contract to 2040, as planned as well. With the completion of this transaction in February
of this year, BBA will be fully consolidated in the BMW Group's financial statements.
So far, as part of the equity consolidation, the BBA earnings contribution was reported in the
financial result. However, with the full consolidation, BBA will be fully reflected in all positions of
our income statement, the balance sheet and the cash flow statement. This also includes
revaluing the existing 50% stake to the current market value. This will result in an estimated
positive one-off effect of between EUR7 billion to EUR8 billion in the financial results.
The full consolidation will increase both revenues as well as the absolute EBIT result in the
automotive segment. This will, however, be partially offset by an annual depreciation expense
from the purchase price allocation over the coming years. A technical effect from the initial
consolidation in connection with the intra-group deliveries will also dampen earnings in 2022. Now
for this reason, we do not anticipate any significant impact on the EBIT margin in the automotive
segment in the current year.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are securing our future competitiveness by investing in future
technologies today. At the same time, we always maintain a clear focus on our financial
performance. We remain committed to our long-term target range of 8% to 10% for the EBIT
margin in the automotive segment. Now, in all segments and across all brands profitability andLet's now turn to our outlook for 2022 in detail. Our guidance for this year reflects the current
status of our planning and includes the impact of the BBA full consolidation. The war in Ukraine is,
of course, having a substantial effect on the country's automotive suppliers with supply
restrictions resulting in production interruption at several BMW Group plants. This has already
been taken into account in our outlook at least to the extent that the impact is currently
predictable.
Regarding the ongoing semiconductor supply shortage, we do not expect the situation to ease
before the second half of 2022. An initial impact of rising raw material and energy prices is also
included in the outlook for the current year. Further significant price increases in connection with
the war in Ukraine and the related sanctions, however, are not part of the forecast. Possible
longer term effects of the conflict in Ukraine cannot be estimated at the present time, and are
therefore, also not reflected in our outlook. We do, however, continue to monitor closely the
current developments regarding the Coronavirus pandemic, particularly in China. Any further
possible negative impact on our business is not currently included in our outlook.
Ladies and gentlemen, the BMW Group has proven its financial strength and flexibility time and
time again. At extremely volatile times, we managed our business with prudence and clear focus.
Our young attractive product portfolio is well received by our customers, particularly, of course,
the MINI E, the BMW iX and the BMW i4. Despite the current supply bottlenecks due to the
current geopolitical situation, we are confident that the positive business development will
continue in 2022.
For the Group's pre-tax profits, we expect a significant increase compared to the previous year,
the main driver being the BBA full consolidation from the 11th of February onwards. Now, due to
the inclusion of the approximately 26,500 employees from China in the workforce for the first
time, the BMW Group's headcount will increase significantly in 2022. Thanks to higher customer
demand and the new models, we had originally planned a slight growth in delivery in the
automotive segments.
As a result of the negative effects of the war in Ukraine in particular, of course, the production
interruptions due to supply constraints at local suppliers, we are now expecting deliveries to
remain at the level of the previous year. The deliveries of electrified vehicles are forecast to
increase significantly this year. The number of all electric vehicles is expected to more than
double.
Now based on the original planning, including the BBA full consolidation, we had expected the
EBIT margin in the automotive segment to be in the upper half of our strategic target range of
8% to 10%. As previously mentioned, the BBA full consolidation has no further significant impact
on the margin in 2022.
However, as a result of the war in Ukraine, we now expect a margin between 7% and 9%. In the
motorcycle segment, we expect a slight increase in deliveries; the EBIT margin is forecast to be in
the target range of 8% to 10%. In the financial services segment, we should see a return on
equity within the range of 14% to 17% in 2022. Reporting year 2021 was characterized by an
exceptionally positive risk situation.
So, ladies and gentlemen, the BMW Group is committed to consistently strong performance even
in volatile times and we have been able to accomplish this yet again. Operationally, we are well-
positioned for the challenges ahead. Over the past two years, the Coronavirus pandemic and the
semiconductor shortages have challenged our flexibility and commitment to deliver top
performance more than ever before. Despite the high volatility, we have continued to driveforward our transformation. We remain committed to the BMW way. And what that actually means
for us in more detail well, `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management & Chief Executive Officer is going to introduce that to you in more detail. Thank you
very much.
(Audio-video Presentation)
`Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Ladies and gentlemen, once again a cordial welcome. The new BMW 7 Series that will be
released this year is tech magic at its best. This is the first time we are fully using our tech stack
for driver assistance functions. It will also enable Level 3 highly automated driving, which we will
present before the end of 2022. We developed its sound system with the Hollywood film score
composer, Hans Zimmer.
The new 7 Series will be the next ace in our successful growth strategy in the luxury class. The
new 7 Series is the only luxury sedan with true drivetrain diversity offered as BEV a plug-in hybrid
and a modern combustion engine.
The most powerful variant of the 7 Series is the fully electric model. The BMW i7 is part of the
success story of how we perceive our role as the leader. We will remain open to all technologies
as long as there is a customer demand and because it best benefits the climate. This is also why
the new BMW 7 series kicks off the new generation of our highly efficient combustion engines. It is
already geared towards the likely incoming Euro 7 standard legislation. In other words, our
conventional drivetrains are already prepared in accordance with the 2030 regulatory
requirements and we've already covered the main financial expenses for these requirements.
On the 20th of April, we will present our new 7 Series for the first time at public world premiere.
We will also give you a sneak preview now.
(Audio-video Presentation)
Digital driving experience has played an integral part in mobility for a long time. For this reason,
we are rolling out the BMW I Drive in our operating system 8 on a broad scale and in all
derivatives. Of course, the new BMW 2 Series Active Tourer is also equipped with the latest BMW
iDrive, the first vehicle in the premium compact class. This is how we are transferring technology
to smaller vehicle classes. The new level of connectivity, including the 5G standard brings even
more entertainment and information to all segments.
The same applies to future BMW models like the 3 Series and X7 updates as well as the new XM
and the new X1, with its BEV variant the iX1. Starting at the end of the year, the new iX1 will be our
fully electric offer to customers in the high-volume premium compact segment. The X1 also
highlights the potential for modern flexible BMW architectures with its diversity of different
drivetrains, just as you have experienced in the iX and i4.
Digitalized mobility primarily needs robust internal supply chains for both software and hardware.
The flow of goods around the world is highly interconnected as the semiconductor supply
bottlenecks have shown. And this is typical for all key technologies. We built several thousand
chips into every vehicle. Now, we are increasingly relying on direct supply contracts.
(Audio-video Presentation)
The supply chain takes on a whole new meaning with the ramp up of e-mobility. We are signing
targeted agreements with our suppliers. For instance, for energy-intensive primary materials, likesteel and aluminum. Already today, we have contractually agreed with our suppliers that by 2030
we will save around 20 million tons of CO2 in the supply chain alone compared to 2019.
In the company internally, we're also paying much closer attention to the increased imports and
responsibility for upstream value chain processes. We've been creating the structures for this and
refining our organization since the start of the year. This will make the company significantly faster
and more resilient. Today, our purchasing development and production divisions are already
working very closely together.
The Board of Management has now decided that such collaboration should be linked even more
closely together. In the future they will do so within technology clusters. This applies to the
clusters, digital, drivetrain, driving and exterior and interior. As part of this process, we will
explicitly strengthen the responsibility of our Purchasing and Supplier Network division.
`Joachim Post, Head of Purchasing & Supplier Network and Member of Management Board and his team will foster close collaboration with our development and production as
well as our suppliers forming new alliances across the value chains and regions. We are selective
about the companies we work with. This could even be an innovative startup, if they are the ones
developing exactly the technology we need.
In this way, we are able to ensure the transfer of technological innovations into our products, our
developments and our production in a targeted and permanent manner. The same applies to our
partners' contribution to our climate goals for 2030. Global commitment to climate neutrality is
bringing the topic of production back into the public focus. It is and will remain one of BMW's
greatest strengths, something we are able to exploit even more during the transformation.
(Audio-Video-Presentation)
All our plans will become my i factories because we are able to develop the necessary skills and
qualifications on a broad scale. Take for instance our two (inaudible), our oldest plant in Munich
and our future plant in Hungary. We are transitioning our parent plant in Munich to 100% electric
during ongoing production. On June 1st, we will lay the foundation stone for our plant in
(inaudible). Already 26 months later the pre-series for the Neue Klasse class is set to roll off the
production line.
The plant in Hungary is the first representative of both the BMW i factory and our new vehicle
architecture. Exactly one year after announcing the Neue Klasse Class A, we are right on track. We
are once again reinventing ourselves, our products, our technology, and our way of working. 90%
of the supplier contracts for the first vehicles will be awarded this year with CO2 emissions as
part of our selection criteria. I want to put it clearly, cool digitalized vehicles are built in cool
digitalized plants.
In Shenyang, we will be opening a completely new plant at the Tiexi site this year, and our plant in
Dadong district is also undergoing a comprehensive expansion. We are using this capacity to
produce additional BV models in China. This year, we will start producing a fully electric variant of
the BMW 3 Series Sedan with a long wheelbase tailor-made for the Chinese market. In addition
to this, the BMW X5 is currently number one in its segment globally. In China, we are expanding
our offering by a locally produced variant of the X5, which also has an extra long wheelbase and
added comfort as the 3 Series.
Hydrogen remains relevant for us alongside electro mobility. We see hydrogen electric drivetrains
as an ideal complement to battery electric drivetrains. This is the only way our fleet can have a
maximum impact protecting the climate. That is why we support European Commission's plans to
expand charging and hydrogen filling station, infrastructure along European highways.Our BMW iX5 hydrogen is already in its final stages of development. We just completed winter
testing under extreme conditions. The result, full range and performance even at negative 20
degrees Celsius. And we will begin producing a small series in autumn, and we are already
preparing for the next generation of our fuel cell drivetrain. IPCEI funding would rapidly advance
development and industrialization of this additional drivetrain generation in Germany.
BMW actually is the only automaker that has committed to produce a vehicle within the
framework of this program. Our technological transformation is a truly comprehensive far-
reaching process, and we are taking our people with us.
(Audio-Video Presentation)
We have already trained more than 50,000 employees worldwide on e-mobility. While others are
still thinking and talking about headcount reductions, we are bringing new experts on board for
emission-free mobility. Our MINI and Rolls-Royce brands will be all electric from 2030 onwards. By
the end of this year, we will give you a glimpse of the new MINI family line-up, which means new
models with a remarkable character and the electrified go-cart feeling, full digitalization reflecting
the lifestyle of our MINI customers, and an overall ecological footprint that is minimal.
At BMW Motorrad, all urban models will be fully electric in the future. BMW Motorrad has been
developing electrified two-wheelers for over 10 years. Here you can see the latest model, the
BMW CE 04. The media is currently testing it. It's a real eye catcher and a lot of fun to ride,
especially given how it's sprints away from the traffic lights.
The next innovative model built for urban mobility will follow in 2023. Customers can expect a
new electric two-wheeler from BMW Motorrad every 18 to 24 months. So we are fulfilling our
customers' wishes in all segments because it's our customers who ultimately decide whether we
continue to be successful.
(Audio-Video Presentation)
Flexibility, technological expertise, and fantastic products in every segment; all of this pays off.
The BMW brand is back on top of the global premium segment and we intend to keep it that way.
Our increased global market share of 3.4% is a result of our successful business operations. All
our brands are focused on the customer and their mobility experience. We are digitalizing the
customer interface and leveraging digital and physical options to reach out to customers through
all channels.
At the same time, we are scaling up online sales. However, our retailers will have an important
and future role as the point of sales and service. We see the premium customer experience,
especially in sales and service, as a potential competitive advantage we want to expand.
Ladies and gentlemen, standing here next to the iX Flow, I want to share our promise with you for
the CES in January 2023 in Las Vegas. You can look forward to our next-gen and our digital vision
vehicle, our next vision for mobility in 2040. I refer to it as a metaverse experience combining the
physical vehicle and the digital future technology, and it remains, for us, the enabler of emission-
free, digitalized, and circular mobility.
The BMW Group is in its best position for this as upcoming anniversaries this year show. This
includes the centenary for the BMW plant in Munich 50 years anniversary of the BMW whole
house and 50 years of BMW M. That's also how we always look far into the future.Ladies and gentlemen, 2022 will not be an easy year. However, we have experience handling
challenging situations with caution. At the same time, we have always pursued and reached our
long-term goals. In order to do this, our world must remain peaceful with the possibility of free
global trade, which drives innovation in a competitive environment. We will do everything in our
power to achieve this and we are providing help whenever and wherever it is needed. Thank you.
`Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Thank you very much, Oliver. Ladies and gentlemen, after a short break, we will begin our Q&A
session. All the members of the Board of Management are present and will be happy to answer
your questions. In order to do so, we will have to reshuffle our studio a bit and we'll see you again
in 15 minutes. Please do use the time to already log in so that we can get started immediately
once our new setup is complete. Thank you. And we will see you in a second.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
All Right. Dear colleagues, welcome back. Please allow me to introduce team members of the
Board of Management. And I will start from my right, your left, `Milan Nedeljkovic, Member of Board of Management, Production. Then
`Ilka Horstmeier, HR & Labour Relations Director and Member of Management Board, she is a member of Board of Management for HR and Social Affairs; she's by the
way also our Labor Director. Then right next to her, `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board, CFO. To my left, your right,
`Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management & Chief Executive Officer, CEO. Then we have `Frank Weber, Head of Development Division & Member of the Board of Management for development. Then we have a Pieter Nota,
Customers, Brands, and Sales. And next to Mr.Nota, our latest member of the Board of
Management and it's a particular pleasure to welcome you, `Joachim Post, Head of Purchasing & Supplier Network and Member of Management Board in this round; he is here
for our Purchasing and Supplier Network.
Now, this year again, your telephone questions are being broadcast into our room right here. And
for that, of course, we're streaming around the entire world. So please, we do ask for your
understanding, if there is a little bit of a technical delay which is quite possible; we do not assume
this will happen; however, should the line be interrupted, you can always send in your questions
via email. You can send it to (inaudible) bmwgroup.com, and you can see the email right now on
the screen.
Now, I've already received a question ahead of time, and please allow me to start with this. It
actually goes to our Head of Sales, Pieter Nota. Pieter, maybe you can say a few words on what
the start was for sales in January and February. Maybe you can already give us a bit of information
on that. Pieter Nota, over to you?
A - `Pieter A. J. Nota, Member of the Board of Management, Customer, Brands, Sales `
Sure. After the very strong and successful 2021, we actually had a good start in 2022 sales wise.
As of February, so this is January and February together, we are actually slightly above the
already-strong first two months of 2021. And so far, we've seen our strongest annual kick-off ever.
Now with this, we're once again gaining market share around the globe, and it is another sign that
just once again proves that the demand for our products is very strong.
Of course, these are the numbers before the influence and the effects of the Russia-Ukraine
conflict. Due to these to be expected effects, we are, of course, seeing a forecast for the entireyear at the same level of the previous year, but nonetheless, our all-electric vehicles, even within
this forecast are growing by more than a factor of 2. So, they are more than doubling.
So, just like in 2021, we want to more than double our sales of all electric vehicles in this year and
this demand continues to be very high. So all in all, a good start into 2022. As of February, we are
slightly above these sales that were already very strong in 2021.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Excellent. Thank you very much, Pieter Nota, with a first outlook on the current year, and I would
now like to ask for the first question.
Operator
To kick things off, a housekeeping remark. If you would like to ask a question, please use the
virtual hand raise feature in our Q&A tool. We will then enter you into the waiting list and then call
up on you directly. Now, the first question from our Q&A tool, it's from `Christina Aman, Reuters by Reuters.
Ms.Aman, the floor is yours.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Well, it's actually Ms.Aman. Ms.Aman, over to you.
Q - `Christina Aman, Reuters
Right. Good morning. I actually have a whole host of questions. First of all, prices, energy prices,
raw material prices. Now in your speech, you already alluded to the fact that there are some
potential burdens. Do you already have the numbers for that? And due to these higher raw
material prices, will that translate to higher vehicle prices? If yes, will it be similar to combustion --
between combustion and battery vehicles?
And then a question on wire harnesses. VW actually announced that part of the car production will
be shifted to other countries like America and China. Is BMW planning a similar thing? And are you
planning a shift of your procurement for wire harnesses from the Ukraine to other countries?
And then a follow-up question to that. Since the war, prices for nickel have increased a lot. So, are
you trying to move away from nickel maybe to towards LFP batteries? And then also, Mr.Post, in
your clip, you spoke of five gigafactories that you are creating together with partners, where will
they be? And one last question on the Neue Klasse which is, of course, supposed to generate a
similar return as the internal combustion engine vehicles. Are you staying with the 8% to 10%
returns corridor or are you aiming for more?
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Right. Well, Ms.Aman, thank you very much. There was a lot of questions, especially of course, for
a new Head of Purchasing, but I would say, we get started with the energy prices, the raw
material prices. This is a question for Mr.Peter and then Mr.Post. Mr.Peter, over to you.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Ms.Aman, first of all, thank you very much, and great to see you by the way. Now firstly, the raw
material prices, we actually have a long-term delivery and supply contracts. And that's why in
2022, in the current year, we are basically unaffected. It's a little bit different, of course, with the
raw material and the currency effects. So, despite our good hedging which we have provided alsoin the last year, we do expect headwinds of around mid-triple digit EUR1 million range. That's also
quite comparable to the headwinds that we saw in 2021 and in 2020.
Regarding the prices and you did see that also in our financial statement for 2021, we are very
well under way. We've reached a very good price level and we're, of course, trying -- and this is
completely independent of electrified or combustion engine vehicles. So, we're trying to
materialize potential and really tap into pricing opportunities. And that's of course important, and
this brings me to your question on the return for the Neue Klasse, right? So this exact
development over the next few years, that's what's important in order to be able to remain in the
8% to 10% returns corridor even with the Neue Klasse.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Right. Thank you very much, Nicolas. And then handing over to Mr.Post. I'm going to report, this is
a repeated -- this is a question of the wire harnesses, switching to other countries, nickel
batteries, and also the five gigafactories. Mr.Post?
A - `Joachim Post, Head of Purchasing & Supplier Network and Member of Management Board `
Right. Generally speaking, the availability of wire harnesses from the Ukraine is, of course, limited.
Now, in order to reduce the impact on European plants, we actually had a very short-term and
very constructive package of measures that we took with our suppliers. We're of course also
involving the international supplier sites in this process.
However, furthermore, we're also procuring additional components from the Ukraine. Our
suppliers are in the west of the Ukraine and we're in a constant contact with the suppliers there
even though, of course, the safety and security of the employees on the site is of the highest
priority. That being said, in the mid to long run, we are also sticking with these sites.
The second topic, the nickel price increase. Now, on a technological basis, in order to minimize
resources of raw materials, of course, we're dealing with different technologies. And again, when
it comes to battery technologies, we're dealing with different technology, also lithium iron
phosphate like you meant to the LFP. Also the optimization of the battery chemistry in order to
optimize and reduce the utilization of raw materials in order to further improve it for the future.
And then your next question was, of course, the gigafactories. Our sourcing strategy is generally
set up in a way that we have a global production network, and that we will actually be building all
electric vehicles around the world. And in light of this, we are always represented in each region.
So, we will have gigafactories and battery cell production present in the regions, where we will be
producing the vehicles in Asia, China, Europe as well as NAFTA. This is where we will be operating
these factories together with their supplier network.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Right. Thank you very much, Mr.Post, and thank you very much by Ms.Aman by Reuters. And now,
moving on to the next question.
Operator
The next question is from Max Heckler [ph] (inaudible). Mr.Heckler, feel free to ask your question.
The line is open.
Q - AnalystHello, Ms.Horstmeier. Hello, gentlemen. Joining you from Lower Saxony today. I have a four short
questions. Looking back to 2021, I'm quite curious because there are quite some record breaking
numbers hidden in that. I think you're quite understated, even though it was such a difficult year.
So, maybe you could just tell us again, where the records were? Where the left records are?
Because, of course, we can talk about those as well. And I think generally speaking, we can say
that BMW has handled the chip crisis comparatively well. I think we've spoken about this, but
maybe we should talk about it again. If we talk about Toyota, Tesla, BMW, I think it's always hats
off. So, how come that you are handling this chip crisis so well?
And looking forward, Russia and the conflict. So, the Russian invasion is more or less, of course,
also has to worry you, because Russia is a sales market, especially for premium brands, the
oligarchs, the oligarch children love to buy German premium cars, that market is now cut off. And
how difficult is that for you as a follow-on effect? And the last question, why no longer Intel? Why
Qualcomm chips? That's of course also a question for our autonomous driving.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Right. Thank you very much, Mr.Heckler. I'm going to say briefly that we are starting the first
question with the record-breaking numbers with Mr.Peter. Then the chip crisis in Russia, I would
hand to Mr.Zipse, and Qualcomm would be Mr.Weber. Nicolas, over to you.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Right. Mr.Heckler, of course, you know that we are interested in a sustainable development of the
company, especially of course, in a decade of transformation, which we certainly are currently
finding ourselves in and what we're very proud of in the company. If we look at the last financial
year is number one, that our product had a very high demand across all regions for all customers
around the globe. This also holds true and especially holds true for the all-electric vehicles which
we have presented in the fall of last year, the i4 and the iX.
And our strong financial situation, not just in 2021, but also in the forecast for 2022, I think if you
just look at the free cash flow of around about EUR12 billion, and then you, of course, deduct the
EUR5 billion extraordinary effects. Then, we're still at a free cash flow of EUR7 billion that we're
targeting. And I think if you look at all of this, this makes us very optimistic that we will continue to
be able to invest in the future, especially of electrification, digitalization, autonomous driving. And
in light of all of this, we are also very optimistic that our all-electric vehicles, especially, will once
again double in sales, at least double in sales.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Right. Thank you very much, Nicolas. Mr.Zipse?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Right. Mr.Heckler, hello to Lower Saxony, and thank you very much for your question. The
semiconductor situation, well, there's, of course, something rather symptomatic behind it
because all the delivery and supply chain start with the raw materials. Now, with the
semiconductors, the situation is actually that almost half of all period elements from the periodic
table are actually included in that in one way shape or form. So, having a look at that and that's
going to be the same thing with electric batteries or with wire harnesses, looking at that, it always
starts with the raw material and that's what we are intensively hedging that.That's why we are always making sure that human rights are complied with. You might remember
our cobalt statement from last year, and that's what we're not only looking at our direct suppliers,
but we're always looking all the way down to the very raw materials. Now, if you do that,
fundamentally, not only because the semiconductor situation is difficult, then of course, you will
immediately see where the vulnerabilities are in the process chains. And that's something that we
prepare ourselves for very early on.
Now, of course, semiconductors, as you rightly mentioned, this situation isn't over. But I do
believe it sharpens your eye to develop a good feeling for where the risks lie. And I think if you
start thinking like this, at the end of the day, and this is a point I would like to make today, if you
think about this, at the end of the day, that will lead you to the conclusion that you will have to be
careful to not embark on a one-sided technology journey, because every single technology
journey, if it is one-sided, will lead to a decreased resilience and an increased vulnerability, and
this also holds true for drive systems of vehicles. That's my answer on that.
The second thing is on Russia. At the moment, we are not selling cars nor are we importing cars
nor are we selling cars nor is the production that we have with Avtotor in Kaliningrad currently
under operation. We currently do not have any future prospects that this could be improved, that
all of this is pure speculation. We truly don't know. I can only tell you the status quo. Now, we sold
46,500 vehicles, that's less than 2% of our total sales. So, it's something we can tolerate.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Thank you very much, `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management & Chief Executive Officer. And now `Frank Weber, Head of Development Division & Member of the Board of Management on Qualcomm as a partner.
A - `Frank Weber, Head of Development Division & Member of the Board of Management `
Hi, Mr.Heckler. Thank you very much for your question on Qualcomm and Arriver. That's something
that we've published last week. It's a very strong partnership and strong partnerships for BMW
and for the BMW business are, of course, essential. Partnerships always need to be long-term
oriented.
And what we are trying to do with Qualcomm is to develop the next generation of driver
assistance systems. And what's particularly pleasant, of course, is that we're going to be setting
up or building up on what we are producing as a text type (1:41:50) with the iX or the i4 and then
together with the Neue Klasse. So, from 2025 onwards, we will, of course, present a completely
new and overworked driver's assistance system, and bring that and launch that into the market
together. And this is something that will, of course, always provide to track because, of course, it
makes a lot of sense that certain solutions are consolidated in the automotive industries, so they
are more economical and that's why both sides are very happy to have a contribution to the
industry with such a strong partnership.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
All right. Thank you very much, Max Heckler.
Q - Analyst
Sorry, I just have a follow-up question. So, from a long-term Intel partnership to a Qualcomm
partnership, why the change? I didn't quite understand that.
A - `Frank Weber, Head of Development Division & Member of the Board of Management `Well, that's probably would also be too much for today's meeting. We also actually have an Intel
Mobileye partnership that goes deep into the 2020s, but we're always saying competition
fosters business, and we just realized that for the next phase of what we can do with Qualcomm,
it just works better with the company's strategy.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Thank you very much to Max Heckler in Lower Saxony, and we now have the next question. Yes.
So next question will be asked by Alexander Poole from (inaudible). Mr.Poole, the floor is yours.
Q - Analyst
Now Mr.Diess, the Head of Volkswagen, today said in an Handelsblatt interview that what we are
currently experiencing in Ukraine and also the supply shortages is only the beginning and he also
referred to the geopolitical situation. And here I'd like to know from you Mr.Zipse, whether you
believe that this is just the beginning of what we are seeing there? Does it also mean the same
for BMW? And how do you prepare for even worse scenarios?
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Thank you very much, Mr.Poole. Mr.Zipse, please.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Well, this follows up to what I just said. The global supply chains are highly interconnected and
that will never change. Now whether we're experiencing the beginning of something new, well,
life always goes on. And in the last two years, be it COVID-19 or semiconductors, we have seen
that these supply chains are always highly dynamic. I rather either believe that risk management
now matters most. Of course, as an automotive manufacturer, you can get prepared very well for
this. For example, changing from single sourcing to dual sourcing for goods where you have
identified a high risk of potential shortages in order to mitigate the risk. And here
competitiveness plays an essential role because we must not view this industry as an industry of
final assembly. So, how do you get the components into a vehicle?
I mean, that's something we've got under control anyway, but we rather have to look at the entire
length of the supply chain. Let me give an example where we're doing this, namely our joint
initiative Catena-X, and here we focus in particular on the transparency and the digital
documentation of these supply chains. Be it about compliance, CO2 footprint or call of precision,
quality matters, these things are getting extremely important and we have embarked upon this
path. And I think these major risks can thus be controlled fairly well.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Thank you very much, Mr.Poole. The next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from `Yann Schreiber, AFP from AFP. Mr.Schreiber, you've got the floor now. Send
us your question.
Q - `Yann Schreiber, AFP
Thanks a lot. I hope you can hear me well. I've got a quick question on production in the Ukraine.
Did you relocate production on short notice because you weren't able to maintain it in theUkraine? Or did you increase your production volumes somewhere else through shifting? And
then also a question for Mr.Zipse. In your address, you used terms like digitalization and
metaverse several times. Now, why does BMW feel obliged to use American buzzwords although
many people do not even exactly know what it means?
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Well, thank you, Mr.Schreiber. We're starting with Mr.Nedeljkovic talking about production.
A - `Milan Nedeljkovic, Member of Board of Management `
Well, thank you, Mr.Schreiber for this question. Now in terms of the production, well, we do not
have our own production facilities in Ukraine, but we've got suppliers there, especially wiring
harness suppliers. And Mr.Post already explained to you that of course, they are affected by the
development of that war in Ukraine and they had also to reduce production and temporarily also
suspend it.
This did also impact our production, but by now, suppliers in the Ukraine are scaling up their
production again, and furthermore, we have also identified alternative ways of production also
through close collaboration with our suppliers. Now, thanks to the flexibility within our own
production system, we've been able to master the challenges of the last two years, namely
COVID-19 and semiconductors. So, we have become fairly experienced in dealing with such
situations that we are now able to gradually scale-up production at all our facilities. So we will thus
also have quickly overcome the Ukraine impact.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Thank you very much. Mr.Zipse, please.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Now, I was just wondering and reflected on your question, what the German translation of
digitalization and metaverse is and I simply couldn't come up with anything better than
digitalization and metaverse. Now, first of all, these two trends are there, that's not a pie in the
sky. You've seen that short video with Mr.Nidacovas, that is metaverse at its best. So it already
exists. And this is the way, the real way that we are planning factories today.
So that's not a pie in the sky, but that's a reality for us here. And if you look at our latest products,
the iX, I mean, that's a fully digitalized product today, so nothing hypothetical. And therefore, we
should not be shy and call these trends by their real name. And we also should be able to identify
the pointers into the future, as I call them because this tells us where the journey is taking us.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Thank you very much, `Yann Schreiber, AFP from AFP. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from an International colleague, namely `Peter Campbell, Financial Times of Financial Times.
Mr.Campbell, the floor is now yours.
Mr.Campbell, sorry. We had a short problem. We will give you the floor again in a minute, then try
again. Okay, let's try again. Please start with your question, again, please.Q - `Peter Campbell, Financial Times `
Can you hear me now? Good. There we go. Thank you. Question on -- thank you for taking my
question. Question on Russia. Are you definitely going to go back into the market when it opens
again or do you think the country under Vladimir Putin has become a pariah state?
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Okay. Peter you want to go first?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Well, we will continue providing our answers in German and you've got the translation. I mean, all
of this is hypothetical, because we do not know where this war is going to take us to. So that's
going to be a very difficult question. And across the bridge when we come to it, at this point right
now, the question does not arise. Now we were one of the first ones to draw the necessary
consequences immediately. We exited Russia which stopped selling products there and our
factory in Kaliningrad has also stopped production. So, we've got to wait and see how the conflict
evolves and then come to a decision.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Is that okay like this, Pieter Nota?
A - `Pieter A. J. Nota, Member of the Board of Management, Customer, Brands, Sales `
Yes, I agree.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
All right. Then, next question, please.
The next question is by (inaudible) of Nikkei. Mr.Fukao[ph], the floor is now yours. Mr.Fukao,
unfortunately, we cannot hear you. We will try again in a few minutes. And I would now like to ask
Mr.Rubic [ph] from Handelsblatt [ph] to ask this question. Mr.Rubic, the floor is yours now.
Q - Analyst
Thank you very much for your time. I've got two or three questions. On the one hand for you,
Mr.Peter, about the share buyback program. Is that going to be a one-off action? Or do you intend
to repeat this several times over the next couple of years?
And then, a follow-up based on this. Whether this is not the right time for this kind of a move
because there's a lot of uncertainty in the market? Maybe you can elaborate on this. And then,
you also talked about normalization of the used car prices after, as of the second half of the year,
what specific impact will this have on your financial results? And then Mr.Weber, I've got a question
for you, that collaboration with Qualcomm and Arriver. Now, if I got it right, this is going to be
rolled out as of the end of 2025. Now compared to competitors, this is about one year later, why
is that so? And if I got it right, then level 2, level 2 plus, and level 3 plus will be part of this
cooperation. What about level 4? What are the next steps there?
And then, one question on the Ukraine war. Maybe you can tell us which production losses you're
facing for the full year. Are we talking about several 10,000 cars, which cannot be built or even
significantly higher volumes? Thank you.A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Thank you very much, Mr.Rubic. I suggest we start with Qualcomm because we just closed on this
topic. So I'd like to ask `Frank Weber, Head of Development Division & Member of the Board of Management first.
A - `Frank Weber, Head of Development Division & Member of the Board of Management `
Well, thank you very much Mr.Rubic. The answer is, of course, we're not late because we are
already in the midst of that project. And one example, the 7 Series, a glimpse of which you've
seen today already is level 3 ready, but what you can see in the sensor systems, as well as there
is a lot happening new functions, how do we integrate them properly? So, that will lead to the
next generation of software that we developed together with Qualcomm and that builds upon
what we have already developed and which is the absolute benchmark in the industry to date.
And for that reason, I think this is very promising what we're doing there and we'll also be
available then to other partners. That was one thing about timing and the year 2025 has been
selected, because right now, we are introducing the digital architecture 2021-2022, and as
already announced, it will then be replaced by the next-generation in 2025, and will then, of
course, be directly installed in the Neue Klasse.
So, it is a perfect timing all-in-all and that program will be able to offer everything up to level 3,
and everybody using driving assistance knows that only few players on the market can do level 3
whereas level 4 is not a relevant topic for us in the second half of this decade. We can see that
certainly in other segments, but that is not directly related to our business.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Thank you. Mr.Weber. Then there was a question on potential production losses. Here, I'd like to
ask Mr.Nedeljkovic to answer.
A - `Milan Nedeljkovic, Member of Board of Management `
Well, thanks for that question Mr.Rubic. Giving you a detailed number about the production losses
doesn't really help at this point. Now, after the first standstill at our suppliers in Ukraine, we also
saw an impact on our European plants. The production was slowed down. In some cases, we also
had a standstill at some sites. However, our production system is highly flexible during the last
couple of years also in spite of semiconductor bottlenecks. We were always able to catch up
when we had suffered losses and ramp-up production quickly again.
And therefore, looking forward for the full year, we expect that we will be able to reach the
overall volume that we also achieved last year, also taking the impact of the Ukrainian to account,
although I cannot give you any specific detail on this individually.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Well, there have been two questions for our CFO, namely share buyback and used car prices in
the second half of the year. Nicolas, please.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Well, thank you, Mr.Rubic for the question. I was prepared for the first question. I had already read
your article this morning. Now, we do have a clear list of priorities. The first and most important
thing is to invest into the future, investing in the things that I mentioned before namelyelectrification. And if you look at our integrated report, you can see that at least 50% of our
global deliveries in 2030 are to be fully electrified vehicles.
Furthermore, by 2025, we want to sell 2 million fully electrified vehicles. And we're well on track
there. Thanks to the demand. We are investing in research and development, sixth generation of
our battery drivetrains and thanks to the demand for electrified vehicles, we are also investing in
increasing the capacity of battery modules. So, that's our top priority. Nevertheless, the past year,
but also our outlook for the current year with the free cash flow of EUR7 billion plus EUR5 billion
from the full consolidation of BBA. Now this all shows that we are a company that is generating
strong income.
And in addition to paying out the dividend, we want to use the share buyback program as a
second option to return capital to the shareholders. At what time we're doing this, well, that's
remained -- that's open, you know about this. It's a multi-phased program first to decide the
framework, which we're currently doing now. And then based upon the development on the
selling sales markets and the geopolitical situation, we decide when the right time is to launch
such a program for the first time.
Now regarding normalization of the used car prices. Let me once again emphasize that at
present, we have seen very good numbers for the first two months of the year. Mr.Nota gave you
the sales numbers and we also see this in the prices that we charge for used cars and also new
cars. The good development in used car prices manifests itself in both segments, that is cars and
financial services, in between the companies, we've got so called profit and loss sharing
agreement, and our expectations, if you look at the financial services result of 2021, and the
outlook 14% to 17%, but above our strategic corridor for 2022.
Now, if you were to ask me today about the development of the last 12 weeks, well, I think
whether there are more opportunities or risks, and I'd say, it's more opportunities.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Well, thank you very much Mr.Rubic of Handelsblatt. And now, I'd like to ask for the next question.
Operator
The next question is from the `Wilfried Eckl-Dorna,  from . Mr.Eckl-Dorna, feel free to ask
your question. The line is open.
Q - `Wilfried Eckl-Dorna, 
Right. Hello, Mr.Zipse and to the Board of Management. I have three quick questions. Mr.Zipse. In
a TV interview today, you said that BMW is hedging from pricing increases in raw materials, and
how far are you hedging into the future? And how far are you hedged? Are you secured? This is
number one. Number two, is BMW affected by the recycling antitrust investigation that started
yesterday? And the third question is, of course, on electric cars, VW said yesterday that for some
electric car models in 2022, they are completely sold out already. What is the situation like for
BMW here? And maybe a follow-up question actually, what is the future of the MINI brand at
BMW? With the increasing pace of electrification, you don't necessarily need the brand anymore
in order to achieve your CO2 targets. Can you say something on that?
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Right. Thank you very much, Mr.Eckl-Dorna. Maybe I'll pick the second topic for myself, theinformation and has sent an official request for information to BMW. Of course, we're going to
investigate that and we will, of course, send that answer to the EU Commission in due time. And
very important, all sites for the BMW AG or none of the sites of BMW AG have actually been
searched here, so we only "have received this request for information yesterday." That's all we
can say at this point. And then, regarding hedging and protection of the raw material price
increases, I would like to ask Mr.Peter. Mr.Peter.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Right. Mr.Eckl-Dorna, hedging, generally speaking, we are hedging over multiple years with
reducing hedging quotas for raw materials for everything and that's where we actually have the
highest security quota in the current year and then of course, it's going to go down going
forward. If you look at and I've mentioned this before, if you look at the effects on 2022
compared to 2021, we assume a mid-triple-digit million euros range in terms of negative impact,
that's a bit more on the raw material side and a bit less on the currency side.
That sort of just to break down, that is the current situation. And of course, if the opportunity
should arise, we have seen very high volatility also in the past in the raw materials sector. Then we
actually have a strategy, which enables us, should the opportunity arise again, to react and act
immediately and continue the hedging in the future. And then we received a question on 2022,
and we already sold out best models. I'll hand that to Mr.Nota. Mr.Nota?
A - `Pieter A. J. Nota, Member of the Board of Management, Customer, Brands, Sales `
Right. Thank you very much. I did mention already in the beginning that this year, we will once
again or we want to once again double the best sales and this is supported very much by a very
strong order book, especially, of course, for our new BEVs. So, the BMW iX and the BMW i4,
especially in Europe, of course, we have seen very high incoming orders. Also the market launch
in the United States and in China, which are currently taking place in March of 2022, those two are
very successful. So, this supports our approach to once again more than double the best sales
this year. Furthermore, the MINI BEV2 is very highly sought after. And of course, we will work on
our pre-existing order than the order book. That's what we're currently doing. So the demand for
our BEVs and especially, the i4 and the iX, the demand is very high.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Right. Then, we have another question on the MINI brand and the future, and of course, the CEO
would answer directly. Mr.Zipse?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
Now MINI, of course, is a very, very strong brand, which in the last few years has gained significant
momentum. Just remember the start of production at the beginning of the 2000s in Oxford,
since then, of course, it's really been nothing, but a success story. And we are now turning a new
leaf, we're writing a new chapter, which fits brilliantly in this brand core because MINI is an urban
brand. And if there is any area that gets electrified faster than other segments, then it is exactly
this urban brand and brand environment.
So, exactly in this small MINI vehicle segment, we're seeing this development. That's why the
brand will be fully electric from 2030 onwards. And why this path is the right one? You can already
see today. Now as Mr.Peter was already saying, the MINI SE is the most sold MINI models, so the
all-electric one is already today, the most sold MINI model. So, we do feel like this truly once
again, confirms, reaffirms our strategy. And of course, the roles of the brands do change. And forus, it's a very important complementary factor of our product portfolio that no other brand can
take.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Right. Thank you very much, Mr.Eckl-Dorna. Please the next question.
Operator
The next question is from one of our International participant. It is from `Stephen Wilmot, The Wall Street Journal from The
Wall Street Journal. Mr.Wilmot, please ask your question. The line is yours right now.
Q - `Stephen Wilmot, The Wall Street Journal
I just wanted to ask if you could give me any color on the profitability of your BEVs relative to your
hybrids and conventional vehicles? And when do you expect parity for example between BEVs
and conventional vehicle margins?
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Yes. Thank you. `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Right. Thank you very much. `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board. Of course, this is truly one of the most important
questions for the ongoing development of our business model, especially, of course, in light of
the fact that the number of all electric vehicles, that the share of all electric vehicles is once again
going to be significantly increased. Again, we are looking at around about 10% of the total sales
to be conducted with just all-electric vehicles.
I've already mentioned the number for 2030, but the clear goal is that with the introduction of
the Neue Klasse, when we look at the profitability of our portfolio, we will actually be at the same,
very good level, as we are with our internal combustion engines. Is there still some way to go to
be there? Yes, of course, but we'll do that step by step and that's why we have also kicked off
this Neue Klasse in order to achieve this goal in a sustainable way. That is also the precondition in
order to sustainably remain in that 8% to 10% EBIT margin.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Thank you very much, Nicolas. Then I have a question to (inaudible). BMW is planning on hiring up
to 6,000 employees for the current year at the Munich main factory. Despite the Ukraine war, will
this remain the case? How many employees have you already hired? And what are you planning
for Munich for the remainder of the year? `Ilka Horstmeier, HR & Labour Relations Director and Member of Management Board?
A - `Ilka Horstmeier, HR & Labour Relations Director and Member of Management Board `
Thank you very much for this question. Now, what's very important for us is that transformation
which we have undergone already in the past few years towards electrification and also the
enablement of our plant for electro mobility, but also digitalization, that all of this has created the
foundation in order to really launch this growth. Peter Nota did just mention it, the demand for our
electric drive vehicles is incredibly high. The plants are enabled, the employees and associates
are enabled and as Mr.`Frank Weber, Head of Development Division & Member of the Board of Management has mentioned, we are now starting the next generation of
our all-electric vehicles.So, for us, this transformation, this consistent transformation is guarantee for our success. And
we're going to, of course, continue to hire people, because we do need the people especially
for digitalization, electrification and also the digitalization of our production efforts. So, we are, of
course, going to continue to hire people, of course, also depending on the volumes in
production. We will have to see how this actually shapes out in the current year, but generally
speaking, we do stand behind that hiring strategy because it actually is important for the sales
strategy of the coming years. And I can only assure you that we're very well underway. Our
recruiting colleagues are doing an excellent job and we're very well on track to achieve our goals.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Thank very much, Ilka. Now, looking at the time, it is now 10:12, which means we have round about
15 minutes left for our Q&A session. And I would now like to ask for the next question.
Operator
The next question is from Miloch Milak [ph] Business Daily. Mr.Milak, feel free to ask your question.
The line is open now.
Q - Analyst
Hello. Thank you for your time. Okay. Let's start. Global economic and supply changes last year
allowed you to increase price significantly. Can you tell me by what percent? And is there a way
back when the semiconductor crisis will be over and material prices will stop rising?
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Right That was the question? Okay. So who wants to answer? So, I think we can mix and match
here a bit. I think `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board can start.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Right. Mr.Milak, of course, this is a question that we are very intensively dealing with and this is not
just in phenomenon, which we've seen in the United States or in China. We've actually also seen
significant improvements in our price penetration and now of course, it is about making sure that
it is sustainable, that it's sustainable exactly in that scenario that you have alluded to that it's not
going to turn back around and develops backwards if you will.
I'm very optimistic that with what our sales colleagues are doing with the measures that our
colleagues are taking there, together with our sales organizations of course, that a large part of
this improvement will be able to be maintained in the coming years, right? And I've also wanted
to pass this question on to Pieter Nota, so he can comment.
A - `Pieter A. J. Nota, Member of the Board of Management, Customer, Brands, Sales `
Absolutely. I can only second that. In our sales management, we will make sure that we will
continue to remain very demand oriented. It's always about meeting demand and we or I am very
optimistic that we will manage to meet the high demand. But even if that were to change, we can
make sure that we always have a great price realization.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Right. Thank you very much, Miloch. Next question, please.Operator
Next question is from `Paul Horrell, BBC from the BBC. Mr.Horrell, feel free to ask your question. The line
is open now.
Q - `Paul Horrell, BBC
Thank you very much. I've discussed this a bit with `Frank Weber, Head of Development Division & Member of the Board of Management at the launch of the i4 and iX. And
since then, we've had the follow-up and the dust has settled from the COP26 Conference. You
have said, you've improved your or increased your forecast for BEV sales proportion by 2030,
but even so it's only 50%. If we look at what your premium rivals are saying, they expect it to be
much higher than that. You've also invested a vast amount of money and you said diesel engine,
which serves only the European region. And in that region, sales of diesels are collapsing. I'm just
wondering why your -- can you share with us your reasoning to your forecasting of only 50% BEV
sales by 2030?
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
`Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management & Chief Executive Officer?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management & Chief Executive Officer `
We have a global context. And what we see today in that industry is that the development paths
are quite different if you compare that with Europe. What we also said today is, in Europe, of
course, that can be much quicker. And if market develops quicker, we will be flexible enough to
have a higher proportion in Europe. And even so, if it would happen that it would increase faster
on the world (inaudible). We will even be able to follow.
(Multiple Speakers)
Right. We weren't supposed to use the interpretation. So but again, the global context is
important and we will follow the market. We did talk about our flexibility multiple times today. And
we can very well imagine that this number that this 50% is achieved before 2030. And quite
frankly, I believe that the statements within our industry are pretty much all aligned regarding the
speed of development. They are not actually that much different.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
And just one quick comment from my side, our Head of Sales, Pieter Nota, when Mr.Zipse was
giving his remark, he was nodding fervently. So, I think this is an important note to make. So the
implementation and execution within the organization are absolutely there.
The next question, please.
Operator
Next question is from Leonard Leonard Bianca from the Automobile (inaudible). Mr.Bianca, feel
free to ask a question now. The line is open.
Q - Analyst
Thank you very much. I will be curious about reworking the plans for the i factories. What is going
to change both for the employees as well as in the production of the vehicles? Maybe you could
say a few words on that.A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Thank you very much, Mr.Bianca. Milan, over to you.
A - `Milan Nedeljkovic, Member of Board of Management `
Right. We are, of course, following three strategic targets with the i factory. The i factory itself, of
course, is our target image, which we want to achieve with our network by 2025. So the i factory
is not just one single factory. Actually, every single BMW plant is going to be an i factory. For
strategic targets, of course, our number one electromobility and the transformation, the
structural transformation needed on the individual site in order to enable this.
The second thing is, of course, sustainability. Here with all sites, we want to be able to utilize local
potential and realize individual footprint in order to achieve our sustainability goals. And until
2025, by itself, we want to be able to reduce those numbers by 40% compared to 2019. So, this
is a big goal even though coming from the past, we're already the benchmark in the entire
automotive industry, an additional factor here and what's really interesting for me is, of course,
digitalization.
Here, we are currently experiencing a transition. We've been talking about digitalization for a long
time, but what is happening right now is, of course, a new world of opportunities and possibilities.
And here, we're really looking at the interconnectivity between the different plants, how you can
really look at the digitalization. And we did hear about the metaverse earlier also in the video and
how all of our planners can connect between each other and how they can collaborate. This
enabled us to launch into a completely new scenario, and enabled us to take new opportunities
on the (inaudible), the utilization of intelligent systems in logistics, in quality assurance.
So, there you will definitely have a whole new framework, which will also be reflected in the day-
to-day lives of our employees. We have already qualified 50,000 employees for e-mobility. And
as mentioned, we are currently seeing this transition with the digitalization, and 38,000 people
have been trained for these new digital media, and switching to them when it comes to planning,
to use planning tools, and to connect themselves with others. So, a lot is happening, a lot has
happened, and of course, this changes the world of production.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Thank you very much. Mr.Bianca. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is by Thomas Magenheim. Mr.Magenheim, the floor is yours. The line is open.
Q - Analyst
Hello. I've got three follow-up questions. Now, on the one hand, I can understand that you do not
want to comment on the future production losses due to the Ukraine war because there would
be speculation. But, I think you can certainly tell how many cars you were not able to build these
days due to parts missing from Ukraine. Could you give us that number? And then secondly,
Russia has announced or indicated several times that the production sites of Western companies
could be seized and nationalized. Now, to what extent that would mean that you have to write
down the assets of your factory in Kaliningrad? And then, the BBA effect. You said that in 2022,
you will not see a major effect due to the first and fourth consolidation, but then later in a normal
year. Now by what extent would the automotive margin increase in a normal year?A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Well, I suggest we start with the BBA margin effect. `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Now indeed we have three effects, the valuation effect, which I described. Then, secondly, we've
got the integration of all P&L items and balance sheet items in our Group. And we've got a
special effect due to internal netting. That is a one-off effect. However, you've got to bear in mind
that due to purchase price allocation during the next five or six years, we will also see PPA
depreciation.
So, from today's point of view, we say yes, we stick to a corridor of 8% to 10%, and considering
the volatility that we have had in the last two years, we believe that this is still a very demanding
target, especially as I've said several times, especially because we are very motivated to invest a
lot of money for future topics.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
All right. And then Mr.Magenheim also once again asked about potential production losses in the
Ukraine, and also potential nationalization of our factories in Russia.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Chief Financial Officer & Member of Management Board `
Our first production losses as mentioned before due to the slowdown in deliveries of wiring
harness, this is our European site and especially, Munich, Dingolfing and Oxford, where
production came to a standstill last week. At the other site, we slowed down production. And
during the course of this week, we will resume production there, and next week, we will be then
back to full production levels at all sites.
Now, giving you a specific number on this is difficult. Let me give an example. I mean, through
flexibility, we try to compensate for such things, and at the Munich site alone, we made use of the
time for the technical adjustments and changeover -- technical changeover projects we had
initially scheduled for fall. So, we don't need that time in fall anymore. And we try to use similar
flexibility modules in our production systems at the other sites as well. So, the output varies
significantly from week-to-week, but we acquire experience with that also due to the supply, what
lengths of semiconductors during the last years. And we've been able to steer safely through
these quarters in the past, we'll do so again.
Then you also briefly asked about the potential value adjustments on Q2 nationalization.
Mr.Magenheim, well, these are not BMW assets, but these are assets of our partner and for that
reason, there is no value adjustment effects that we have to expect.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Thanks, Mr.Magenheim. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from (inaudible). Ms.McLear, [ph] the floor is yours. The line is open.
Ms.McLear, we cannot hear you right now.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & GovernmentalAll right. Then I'd like to readout a question that we have received in writing from Ms.Ryman [ph].
That's a question for Mr.Weber. What drivetrain types can customers order on the new platform
of Neue Klasse as of 2025? And does BMW plan to set up a new e-platform only as of when?
`Frank Weber, Head of Development Division & Member of the Board of Management, please.
A - `Frank Weber, Head of Development Division & Member of the Board of Management `
Well, thanks for the question. It's rather easy to answer. The Neue Klasse is a new architecture,
the so-called new cluster architecture. And it has been optimized for battery electric vehicles. So,
there will be a new architecture in 2025 and a lot of derivatives will be based upon that with the
new powertrain and digital stack that's going to be used here. So, it's all-electric.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
Thank you very much, Ms.Ryman for that question. Now let me once again check whether the
question from (inaudible) is now available.
Operator
Yes. We're starting again. Ms.McLear, you can now ask your question. The line is open. No, we're
very sorry. We cannot hear her.
A - `Maximilian Schoberl, Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications & Governmental
All right. Thank you very much. Well, it's 12:25 sharp, just in time. So, thank you very much to all
colleagues for having joined us. We thank you here out of our TV studio in Munich. Of course, we
hope that next year, we will be able to welcome you again in-person. We really would love to
meet you here again on behalf of our Management Board and its Chairman, `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management & Chief Executive Officer. I'd like
to thank all of you. Stay safe and see you soon.