Y 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Max-Morten Borgmann, Communications Corporate `
So, ladies and gentlemen, welcome back. Ritu, you joined us last year for the first time at the
Annual Conference. That was just before you officially took over as Senior Vice President for
Group Treasury. What have been the highlights of your first year in this role?
`Ritu Chandy, Head of BMW Group Treasury `
Thank you, Max. It's been an extraordinary year. We delivered strong results within a guidance in a
challenging environment and there were number of other unique events in 2022. We have the full
consolidation of BBA. We started our share buyback program, completed about 82% of the first
program that was launched, and we saw the launch of the i7, the all-electric Rolls Royce Spectre, a
number you -- number of you on this call actually joined us for those events, which are both
unique in their segments, very -- very important for our electrification narrative. And finally, we
accomplished all this while generating a record free cash flow, putting us in a perfect position to
invest in the future.
`Max-Morten Borgmann, Communications Corporate `
Excellent. Absolutely, Ritu, it was certainly a challenging, yet exciting year, but I think we can be
confident about this year. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I will leave you in great hands with Ritu
for the Q&A. Ritu, the stage is yours. Please.
`Ritu Chandy, Head of BMW Group Treasury `
Thank you again, Max. I would now, without further ado, like to welcome back `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management and
`Nicolas Peter, Finance on stage with me. Thank you.
The gentlemen have now joined me on stage. Thank you for joining me here. Ladies and
gentlemen, as usual, we look forward to your question. Your call will be streamed to us directly in
the room. We would therefore encourage you to use video call so that we can also see you here.
Without further ado, we will now hand over to the operator and take the very first question.Questions And Answers
Operator
Our first question comes from `Dorothee Cresswell, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas at Exane BNP Paribas. Please unmute your line
now and turn your camera on.
Q - `Dorothee Cresswell, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas `
Hi, there and thank you for taking my question. I think you can hear me. And my first question is
around the earnings dynamics in China. And you look to have generated pretty phenomenal
profitability there last year despite a challenging operating environment and it now seems like
demand is picking up. And you're also taking market share in the BEV segment, which is quite
unusual for western name. And -- but we also hear that pricing is very, very challenging and there
is talk of a great deal of discounting. So my first question is, is 2022's profitability sustainable into
2023 and also beyond and why? And then my second question is just around the cash return to
shareholders. You've obviously got the 10% buyback authorization. You're nearly done with the
first EUR2 billion program. Should we expect you to launch a follow-on program? And is the EUR2
billion, a good point of orientation for that? Thank you so much.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Head of BMW Group Treasury `
Thank you very much for your question, Dorothee, and for kicking us off today. The first question
regarding pricing development in China, I would hand over to Nicolas please. Nicolas?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Finance `
Dorothee, first of all, you're absolutely right. Despite the volatility we've seen in '22, in particular
in the second quarter in China and in the first quarter, '22 was a good year in -- for BMW in China
and, in particular, we have seen contribution per unit developing very strong and we have seen
step by step our EV share going up. I think it's worthwhile to mention that the EV market is
developing in a different manner in China compared to Europe and US where Europe and US are
more top down. China is developing more bottom up and we are now launching step after step
the next all electric cars in China.
We are -- if you remember our Q3 conference, we are not surprised that the market, in particular,
in January, February in the first quarter is somewhat more difficult in China, which has, on one
hand side, to do with the fact that we've seen at the very beginning of the year still the impact of
the COVID lockdowns in January and beginning of Feb, then we had the Chinese New Year little
bit -- a bit earlier. We are nevertheless optimistic -- we are nevertheless optimistic that we will see
beginning probably from end Q2 onwards, a positive dynamic development in China. So we
believe based on our strong portfolio, full availability of long wheel base X5 pricing discipline. We
will have another successful year in China. And on top, further grow our all-electric business.
Maybe only way is that something you would like from your perspective to add to China because
of conflicts and very, very important element.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
You know, Dorothee, China is a full-scale operation for us. We have a very high locally for local
production. And by the end of this year and you mentioned that rightfully that we are gaining
market share specifically on the premium best segment there. At the end of this year, we will
have 11 fully battery electric models in the market. Most of them locally produced, but also
imports, like for example, the iX and the i7. So, especially the second half of the year, with thenew government taking on, and I will be in two weeks at the China Development Forum, and
there we will see what is happening. You can only charge China if you are in China. But we are
cautiously optimistic about the further development of China, especially in the mid and very much
so in the long term.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Finance `
Now, though I see a second topic, share buyback. First of all, our first program is still underway, I
believe in a very successful way. We have completed the first program to, while we are, as we
speak at 82 -- 82%. And if you ask me today, first, we have to finish program one. We have still
very -- based on our strong cash flow, strong liquidity, we have a very strong cash position,
liquidity position. We will continue on one hand side to invest, in particular, in the development of
all electric cars, battery module production is another important element. So we will slightly grow
a CapEx, nevertheless we have from today's perspective, definitely room to continue our share
buyback program. So far the experience with the size of -- we've been a little bit faster than
initially anticipated, if you remember our deadline was to say, well, we will finish EUR2 billion end
of -- end of this year, we will most likely be, well, six -- six to five months faster. So I believe it's a
good -- it's a good indication, nothing decided -- nothing decided yet, but we are really happy
with the size, maybe taking into account the share price development, speed could be a little bit -
- bit lower because that's, of course, an important element to factor in. But from today's
perspective, there is no reason why we would not continue.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Head of BMW Group Treasury `
Thank you, gentlemen. And we would be ready for the next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from `Daniel Roska, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein at Bernstein. Please unmute your line now and turn your
camera on.
Q - `Daniel Roska, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein
Good morning, thanks for taking my questions. First on the BEV margins, you're ramping up BEV
penetration again in '23. Could you elaborate how much of a margin headwind the increase in
BEV penetration was last year in '22 and what you're expecting in '23? And then maybe further
out in the decade, do you think it's actually possible to get to margin parity or cost parity in one
point in between ICE and BEV markets [ph]?
The second part of the question would be, on the Dee and the Panoramic Vision and NEUE
KLASSE, which we've now seen a couple of times. The question here would be, why do you think
this technological approach is superior to, I would call it, a screen-based approach, right. So not
maximizing the screen, but using the augmented vision that you're using. And could you share
some more insights on the potential technological partnerships, both on the hardware and
software side required to bring that to reality? Thanks.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Head of BMW Group Treasury `
Thank you very much, Daniel. We will start with the first question regarding development of
battery electric vehicles, the margin headwind in 2022 versus development in 2023 and most
likely parity discussion which I would hand over to you, Nicolas, please.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Finance `Daniel, you have to look at best margins from two angles. Of course, on one hand side and this is
no surprise is the margin of an all-electric car exactly on the same level as in comparable car with
an internal combustion engine, of course, not. On the other hand side, if you would look at our
own planning 12, 24 months ago, we are surprised in a very positive way, which means our best
margins are higher than we planned our sales. So that's I believe a very, very strong -- strong
basis.
Now what is part, of course, of our business model that this effect and this is why we can despite
a growing share of all electric cars, Oliver in his speech said while we will go up to 15% in '23,
which would indicate we will end up somewhere close to 400,000 cars. We still stick to our
margin corridor of 8% to 10%. And if you adjust by the PPA, we would be even 1% higher, which is
on one hand side, an indication that our business model is extremely robust that BEVs are
developing better than we've anticipated. And we plan, of course, with NEUE KLASSE, this was
also one of the question of -- in our media around a couple of minutes ago, we plan with NEUE
KLASSE to be as a -- on a car level, on cost parity, which means -- and this exactly one of the
reasons why we've developed NEUE KLASSE. So not only to optimize the drivetrain. Drivetrain
optimization means cost down by approximately 50% with the generation six compared to
generation five, 30% more range, 20% more density in -- in the battery cells. So that's definitely a
very important step. But at the same time, we optimize the cost level of the whole car. And this is
why we are -- we are confident that with the NEUE KLASSE, we will be, if you compare ICE --
compare with ICE car to an all-electric car, we will be on margin parity.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Head of BMW Group Treasury `
And NEUE KLASSE, of course, makes another step Nicolas with the panoramic display that you
referenced, Daniel. And I would hand it over to Oliver, please, Oliver to describe our partnership
strategy and the reason for the approach.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Yes. Hello, Daniel, also from my side. We have 20 years' experience with head up displays. And
that came actually from the airplane industry into the car. Now what you see very much in our
industry that driver distraction becomes a dominant problem. And with the next level of our
Panoramic View or Panoramic Vision display we have here, we want to have the control of the
driver to be in the heart of our product development. Eyes on the road and hands on the wheel.
And if you look at our user interface today, you have an head up display, you have a cockpit
display and you have a touch screen. You will still in future, even with the BMW Panoramic Vision,
you still will have the opportunity to touch, which is close to the driver. But there will be a new
combination of these displays. And the forefront, the biggest change you will see in the new
version of the -- of the screen head up display.
Your second question, how do we do that? Do we need partners to do that? We are always the
system integrator. We're always the system integrator and we have many partners for the
displays, for the software from external services. And we will tell you more about it when we
showed that our next concept vehicle for the NEUE KLASSE this year in the IAA here in Munich and
then we can also talk about our partner approach.
Q - `Daniel Roska, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein
Thank you.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Finance `Daniel, maybe to add one additional element to your first part of the question. Of course, you've
asked specifically as well impact in '23 because we are significantly growing our all-electric
business and here you have to take into account. And this is why -- exactly why we are confident
to stick to our strategic margin corridor that with our GTL offensive, with offensive at the top end
of our segment 7-series as the new X7 which is doing extremely well. And coming later, what I've
said all year availability of X5 along, which gives additional production capacity for Spartanburg for
other markets. All those -- all those cars are positioned in -- in the high margin area and, of
course, this is offsetting some of the -- I would not call them negative effects because those
costs are still very positive and much more positive than we've sought, but all those two
elements together lead us to 8% to 10%.
Q - `Daniel Roska, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein
Understood.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Head of BMW Group Treasury `
Thank you very much. And NEUE KLASSE, next step at the IAA is what I heard. With that, we would
be ready for the next question, please.
Operator
Our next question is from `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank at Deutsche Bank. Please unmute your line now and turn
your camera on.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you very much. It's Tim from Deutsche Bank. And well done for today. I think investors
cannot ask for much more. We've argued many times on this call about your strategic direction.
Now you think more about high-end models, cash return, free cash flow. And also your move
straight into Q&A, which we think is really great and much appreciated.
I have two questions please. The first one is strategically very early -- you were very early in
adopting a very globally balanced footprint with very, very local for local production now. We see
the entire industry is spending a lot more CapEx in the US market for all the right regions
probably, but the fee is obviously that this industry never really finds an investment peak and will
always continue to find something to spend money on.
Usually, Nicolas, you would answer the question on CapEx, but maybe Oliver, when we think
about this strategically, do you feel you still have any holes in your global production network? Do
post 2025 still have to invest a lot more money incrementally in the US? Do you have to go to
Asian countries, India, do something in new technologies? Or can we really believe for good that
in the next two, three years, we're going to see the investment peak in this industry spending
and that it not only continues to go up and up?
And then secondly, Nicolas, I'd like to come back to Dorothee's initial questions. I think that's
actually pretty favorable for your stock. You seem to like how the cash return programs with the
buybacks is actually working out. Why wouldn't you just say that cash returns in the form of
buybacks, when you have excess liquidity, which you seem to generate are quite confident on --
or going to be a regular part of your cash return strategy going forward from here beyond the
allowance that you already have right now? Thank you.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Head of BMW Group Treasury `Thank you very much, Tim, and we appreciate the feedback as well. Starting first with Oliver, with
regards to a balanced footprint local for local approach that you mentioned, Oliver, and what
does that mean for upcoming investment plans? Thank you.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Well, Tim. Thank you. Thank you for asking these questions. And you rightfully observed that we
have taken that balanced global approach for a very long time. Our plant in Spartanburg is not
only our largest plant, but also the root cause that we are the largest exporter of cars by value
from the United States and the rest of -- into the rest of the world. CapEx, you will always spend
for two reasons, technological advance, new cars and also for capacity expansion. And we do
both at the same time because we think with our technology opened approach, we have the
best fundament for growth as well. Because we are playing, of course, the North American
market, we play the European market with whatever regulation will come here, we will be
prepared.
Of course, we invested heavily into the Chinese market. And now comes up a fourth pillar, we call
that, which are exactly these markets you're talking about, Southeast Asia, India, where we just
decided on a new strategy that we not only look at the three biggest markets today, but where is
the largest growth. And these are not only one market, this is a multitude of markets with very
high potential. Specifically going in the upper segment just like Nicolas just said, we have a very
strong product lineup where CapEx lies already behind us with the 7-series, with four drivetrains.
We have the XM. We have facelifts of the X5 and the X6 and the M and the X7. So there is growth
potential.
And at the same time, of course, we have invested, which is already behind us, into an
architecture which can do all drivetrains. And that is not something where we neglect the
customer, it's the other way around. We worked on our ability to have architectures, we can do all
drivetrains and that gives us I think a very good growth perspective as well. And again to
summarize, besides the three pillars we have today, which we rightfully mentioned, we look very
much into the fourth pillar, which is -- which is ramping up now.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Head of BMW Group Treasury `
Thank you very much. And I think in relation to that, Nicolas, the second question, free cash flow
generated CapEx, of course, but also buyback as a regular part of our shareholder return.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Finance `
Yeah, maybe -- maybe one or two comments on CapEx, Tim. If you look and this is what we've
said in our speeches today. This year, you will see CapEx being in the -- for us, relatively high area
of 5.5% to 6%, but we believe that still very, very reasonable, in particular, into -- if you take into
account that we are investing more than two-third of those investments going in future
technologies, we can't speak for the industry when will the investment peak be reached. We
believe we have a very, very good plan. So '23, maybe '24 on a similar level and then we will go
back to 5% and as outlined, major investments going, in particular, in the electrification of the -- of
our business. We've announced EUR1.7 billion in Spartanburg. We are investing in a battery
module production nearby Munich. So those are some cornerstones of our strategy moving
forward.
While we believe definitely cash return, share buyback program is a very good way to balance
good element of an additional mix to get to balance our capital market strategy. We have
executed of, as I said, faster than -- much faster than initially thought, the first 82% -- first 82%,initial plan was to finish a year -- year-end with the program one. This will be definitely faster. I've
already indicated that also in many, many talks with you and the colleagues that it's very likely that
we will continue to one such program, now we are at 3% -- a little bit more than 3%. We have an
authorization of 10%. So there is still some way to -- there is still some way to go. We have still
some room to maneuver. And we will take the next decisions when we are closer to the -- to the -
- to the limit of the authorization, we've already cut. But you know the company, as a company, is
a very long-term oriented company. We develop things not to do one thing in one year and then
do something completely different the next year. So that's part of our plan moving forward.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Head of BMW Group Treasury `
Thank you very much, Nicolas. I think that definitely clarifies the share buyback question. We are
ready for the next question please.
Operator
Our next question is from `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS of UBS. Please unmute your line now and turn your
camera on.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS `
Yeah, hi, everybody. I hope you can hear me. My first question, it's probably one for Oliver. I want
to understand how you conceptually think about taking cost out in your BEVs with NEUE KLASSE. I
mean, there's a lot of fresh technology coming into the vehicle and it's going to be an appealing
product to the customer. But there are other competitors out there that are really super
aggressive in reducing cost in absolute terms on next generation BEVs. So your road map to
margin parity versus ICE, that sounds promising, but we don't know what the price of the product
is. And it depends on external factors as well.
So, I'd like to understand, when you're planning NEUE KLASSE, how much of an absolute cost
focus do you have? And can you give us a feel, are we talking about really step change in cost
per unit? Or is it all just about scaling up the new platform that will bring the savings? Just how
you balance that, try to better understand that. And the second question is probably more for
Nicolas. I understand you're guiding for flattish price mix this year. But your high-end luxury is
growing a lot, you say mid double-digits, sounds like 50% or so year-over-year. Is the offsets on
the negative side that results in a flat price mix impact on EBIT just at BEV, which suggests it's still
very dilutive? Or have you just generally taken a more cautious view on pricing this year? Thank
you.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Head of BMW Group Treasury `
Thank you very much, Patrick. We'll start with the first question on NEUE KLASSE, specifically again
the strategy and the approach, followed by the cost focus also of NEUE KLASSE with Nicolas. But,
over to you, Oliver.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Yes, Patrick, thank you for that question. I think if you think others are super aggressive than we
are super, super aggressive because the NEUE KLASSE, it's not so far away. And we're adamantly
that we will reduce 50% cost reduction, which is extremely important to ramp up electromobility.
If you're not able to do that, you shouldn't ramp up anything. And that -- how we do that consists
of various elements. First of all, you have to understand the chemistry, which are inside yourself.
And that is what we do with almost 300 people since a couple of years, not only since we startedwith the i3. So we have an in-depth knowledge how to reduce costs because 80% -- 80% of the
cost structure of battery module is raw materials. And you have to bring the raw materials down.
And at the same time, of course, to increase performance of the -- of the battery module.
On the second half, you will always have economies of scale. And as we said, we ramp up the
NEUE KLASSE 25. We started Debrecen, then come to Munich, then go to China, then go to San
Luis Potosi. So there will be an immediate ramp up, which gives us the necessary economies of
scale to stay profitable in that segment. And also on the approach, how do we source the
batteries. We have a competitive approach. As we always said, it does -- at this phase of
industrial development, it does not make sense to invest in house. We do the (inaudible) the
actually complete battery model, that's an in-house thing. That's, as Nicolas said, that is what we
invest [ph] ourself.
The cell -- the round cell itself, we will have various suppliers. That means you will always have a
competitive element in your supply chains. We don't rely only on ourselves. I think this is -- you will
have the huge lock in effect. Especially if the technology advances quickly, you will also have -- you
see these advances in the worldwide supply chain, which is rapidly growing up. And I think there
are enough -- very competitive players out there. So we will have not only one, we will have
various suppliers to do that ramp up. And in playing together, the economies of scale,
understanding technology, and a competitive supplier base, I think that is the main -- the main
levers we have to come to that minus 50% our cost reduction. And as it looks now, that is
achievable.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Finance `
Patrick, so you've asked on -- at the end of the day, you've asked, well, what are the headwinds
and what are the tailwinds we are facing compared to last year in '23. And maybe to start with
the -- with the headwinds when you've already mentioned, definitely an increase at today's
contribution points of all electric cars is a headwind. No doubt. And this is why this investment,
Oliver just outlined, in NEUE KLASSE is so important and so relevant. If you look at further
headwinds, we have definitely -- it's a combination of raw material and currencies. This is
probably in the mid to higher three-digit area. And we might -- we might have a risk of additional
material cost headwinds additionally to the EUR2.4 billion we've already absorbed last year.
On the other hand side -- and this is definitely indicating the quality of our portfolio and the
strength of the existing lineup, we have a significant positive impact from the GKL [ph] cars, X5
will play an important role, as I've said, with more availability from Spartanburg and you can
probably relatively precisely calculate the profitability of those products ongoing high demand,
very low discount levels, if you look at very recent auto data numbers coming from the US. So as
still the discount level is very, very low. We continue to see remarketing -- re-marketing of off
lease vehicles being a very positive element.
We continue to see -- despite the slight increase in our credit risk assumption, we continue to see
in the first two months very strong credit risk development, positive development. So all those
other elements make us confident that we are in a position to go back to our strategic margin
corridor of 8% to 10%. And as I said, if you integrate the PPA effect, we would even be
approximately 1% higher.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS `
So there is no change in how you think about pricing overall this year?
A - `Nicolas Peter, Finance `Pricing -- if -- if you look at the start of the year, very confident in in US, good -- really good start. If
you look at Europe, I see somewhat mixed picture. Mixed picture means that we see more
pressure, in particular, in Germany and UK, but definitely we have a very, very strong focus on
pricing and supply follows demand. And important element, in particular, in Germany and UK is
that we have still a very strong order bank against which we can deliver. So we will see a stable
development. This is exactly the background of our assumption that it will be -- it will be stable.
China, I have already outlined. And then we see other markets developing in a more positive way,
Korea, good momentum; Japan, good momentum. And in Europe, interestingly, I've mentioned
the two markets being more on the difficult side, but we have, with the French market, with the
Italian market, with the Eastern European markets -- markets, which continue to be very, very
stable and contribute in a positive way to the development of our profitability.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS `
Thanks very much.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Head of BMW Group Treasury `
Thank you very much. We'd be ready for the next question please.
Operator
Our next question is from Jose Asumendi of J.P. Morgan. Please unmute your line and turn your
camera on.
Q - `Jose M. Asumendi, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Thank you very much. It's Jose from J.P. Morgan. Just a couple of questions please. Nicolas, you
mentioned already a few times during the press call and today that the profitability of electric
cars is coming better than expected. So I'd love to understand a bit better, what specifically or
can you give us some -- some insights as to why the profitability of this electric cars is coming
better than expectations versus the previously planning? And then as we think about NEUE
KLASSE and Oliver has been pointing out this 50% reduction in cost, will this bring the gross
margin of BEV in line with ICE by 2025? Is this how we should be thinking about it?
And then second question please for Oliver, can you speak a bit more please around the
strategy in China? I mean, so far, you're doing I think an excellent job. You're selling -- your
monthly sales on BEV are actually ahead of your competitors. You're clearly going to double
capacity in one of your plants in Shenyang, Tiexi [ph], in the next three years. So there's a lot
going on China. I think, it is just probably another hour of discussion, but can you talk a little bit
around strategy and also are you happy around the net construction prices Japan will be
achieving on battery electric vehicles in the Chinese region? Thank you.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Head of BMW Group Treasury `
Thank you very much, Jose. We will start off first with profitability of battery electric vehicles
expectations and then answer the question on margin parity on NEUE KLASSE with Nicolas. Thank
you, Nicolas.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Finance `
Well, Jose, first of all, good to go -- good to see you. Well, why -- one of the reasons definitely is
that the cars are great that the cars are really in line with what customers expect. We've just
launched, not only the i7, but we've launched, which is from volume development, a veryimportant product as a new X1 with the iX1. And iX1 has not only outstanding feedback in media,
but also has a very, very strong in incoming orders. So that's definitely the product quality. The
substance of the product is one element.
The second element is, of course, our -- what we internally call granular performance
management that we are really very precise in the way we steer demand and supply. And this is
not just supporting the profitability of ICE cars, but it's also supporting the profitability of all
electric cars. The positive element, in particular, with our all-electric car development is that this is
not just an effect in one market. We see a positive development, as you've referred to in China --
we've seen a positive development, of course, in Europe, but also in -- in the US.
Your second question which is related to the 50% reduction in costs. And this is only related to, of
course, to the battery -- to the battery to the, in particular to the cell, which is a key component
even more in an all-electric cars and combustion engine and combustion cap because it accounts
for more than 40% of the total cost of the car. And this is why what Oliver just has outlined, this is
why this is so important and so relevant. But the reduction, we are not stopping there. We have,
for example, in a quite substantial and smart way without reducing from a consumer perspective,
the attractiveness of those products.
We have significantly reduced complexity of the car. Complexity of the car has not only an
advantage from a consumer perspective, but it also has an advantage from an engineering
perspective, if you think about, for example, and the layout of our plant in -- our new plant in
Hungary. So it has positive effects in those areas as well. And this is why all those elements
together will at the end of the day lead to a contribution margin, which is on par with ICE cars.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Head of BMW Group Treasury `
Thank you very much, Nicolas. And then to your next question, Jose, strategy China, but also the
development of our BEV portfolio in China, Oliver?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Well, Jose, you rightfully said, China is a very special market. And let me describe what we
actually do there. We know two things. First of all, the biggest growth in the NEF [ph]
development that means the best cars in China comes from the bottom of the market segment.
Very, very strong code -- growth in the markets, below RMB200,000, RMB250,000, very strong
growth. If you look in the upper segments above RMB350,000, the growth is very comparable to
the rest of the world. Of course, China is the biggest market, they will always have the highest
numbers. But in percentage, it's quite comparable to the rest of the world. So the revolution in
China is in the lowest market segments. That's the first observation.
The second observation is the average age of our customers is much younger. They are in the
mid 30s. And, of course, they have different requirements and that is why respond with some
very specific things. We have more than 2,000 people already now working in our R&D
departments in Beijing, in Shanghai, in Shenyang, in Nanjing. Those are big, big effort to localize
also our digital and our battery technology in China, for China. And even more so, a lot of things
are coming out of China for the rest of the world.
I think this is very important to understand. And having 11 battery-only cars at the end of this year
in the market, is also indicative how serious we take it with the BEV development there. And one
last comment, I think the world starts to understand what BMW is doing with their, on the one
side, technology open approach, and on the other side, to have a very, very strong push on the
base of these architectures on the BEV side. And this gives us a lot of efficiencies in our ownprocesses. And at the end, a big market opportunity and that works in China as well as in Europe.
And I think the world starts to understand what we actually do here.
Q - `Jose M. Asumendi, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Thank you very much.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Finance `
Maybe I'd say too, because you rightly said, net transaction prices for all electric cars in China. So
if you look at our price position and our price -- net price position in China overall, also the two
first months of the year are confirming that we have a very, very strong position -- ongoing strong
position in China, so BEV and ICE combined. If you take into account what I have -- answering
Dorathee's question what I've said earlier, the market in China is developing into -- in direction of
all electric cars from a different position compared to Europe and the US. Europe and US is top
down. And China is putting up.
So if you look at our price position, we still have and we will stick to it. We have a very high gross
price position in the Chinese market with our -- with our products. This is exactly where premium
cars should be a position. And, of course, coming from such a position, you can have the one or
the other comment in media that, which is -- which is reflected that the one or the other dealer,
they are independent entrepreneurs is giving also from our perspective too high discounts in
particular on all electric cars, but this is unfortunately something which we can always experience
in our business model. And this is why it's so important to us that we have now introduced in
China in a successful way with MINI brand, the agency model, so it's already up and running for
the MINI brand since 1st of March, very successful start. System is running well. Agents which are
our former dealers really like as a system and we are on track to implement a similar system in
Europe in the next two and half years.
Q - `Jose M. Asumendi, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Thank you very much.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Head of BMW Group Treasury `
Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Jose. Next question please.
Operator
Our next question is from `Tom Narayan, Analyst, RBC at RBC. Please unmute your line now and turn your
camera on.
Q - `Tom Narayan, Analyst, RBC `
Hi. Yeah, thanks for taking the question and thanks for doing this platform for the Q&A. I think your
peers could learn a lot from it. It's lot more egalitarian. I wanted to follow-up on the -- on the
pricing point first. It sounds like you were saying that Europe could actually be tougher on pricing
in '23 versus the US, which is kind of the opposite of I think what a lot of folks are thinking. Europe,
you already have incentives fairly high, you already have a fleet base corporate car, which should
support higher pricing you would think versus the US. So I'd love to hear a little more on that why -
- why pricing may be tougher in Europe and specifically you mentioned Germany.
And then a second question on software. One of your German premium OEMs peers did a large
event where they touted their level 2 plus and level 3 offerings, noting that they are the only OEMthat has level 3 capability, although at some limited fashion. Just love to hear your points on
where you guys are level 3 and when you guys may get legal approval maybe in Germany first or
in other areas?
And also when we looked at their financial guidance for this -- for the software applications, it
wasn't really that big to be quite honest. It didn't seem like softer was a huge financial contributor,
but rather more of a product enhancer. And let me think that, in the future as some of these
ADAS functionality becomes regulated, just like airbags and seatbelts work, so level 2 plus
functions become regulated, perhaps the pricing that you could charge to consumers or buyers
of your car come down, maybe it makes sense to outsource a lot of this functionality to others,
maybe like an app did or a mobile app. Just love to hear your thoughts on ADAS functionality as a
financial return for your business. Thanks.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Head of BMW Group Treasury `
Thank you very much, Tom, and thank you again for the feedback. We'll start with the pricing
question with Nicolas, why do we believe European pricing is tougher than that of US. Thank you,
Nicolas.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Finance `
Well, maybe, Tom, first of all, I didn't say Europe in general. What I've said is the following. First of
all, we have in Europe still a very strong order bank in all major markets, in particular also, as I've
said in Germany and in the UK. So we will be in a position to deliver to supply against this strong
order bank. But what we can see on the other hand side and we've already communicated and
detailed this in our Q3 call last -- early November that we see a softening in demand, in particular,
in the two major European markets whilst markets like France, Italy and Eastern European markets
are much more stable.
Having said this, we have -- and this is why we are optimistic in terms of to maintain a solid price
position, we are very precise in managing supply and demand. And this is exactly why looking at if
-- and I know you look, as we do in a very, very systematic way at the US -- US data and I guess
you would agree that also after the first two months, on one hand side our inventory level is on a
really very, very good level. And second element that if you look into the different car lines that
discount pricing remains -- remains strong. And taking into account that we have, in particular, in
the US, more supply for all -- for SUV type of cars, which are still in very high demand coming from
Spartanburg. This is why we are, I would say, in particular, for the US very -- very confident. And
this on top comes the ongoing in the first two months -- ongoing strong remarketing we see in, in
the US market.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Head of BMW Group Treasury `
And now moving to next question, Tom, specifically on ADAS level 2 plus and level 3 availability
and our partnership approach. Over to you, Oliver.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Well, there seems to be a strange competition about who has which level in which country and so
on. The main question is what's in for the customer? How reliably do the system works in
customers' hands? Does the automotive OEM actually deliver the car to the customers? And
finally, at which kinds of speeds do these -- does the ADAS offering work? And you will see BMW
always finding the solution where first the customer profits that he uses and that he pays for it.
You asked about the profitability. You will not see an offer from BMW where we just do it out ofcompetence reasons, but there must be a use case for the customer. And we think that higher
speeds at about 120 or 130 kilometers first of all, second hands-free and independent of what
kind of -- what kind of level you attach to it is a very serious customer offers and look at the next
couple of weeks and months what we will offer here.
Talking about partnering strategy, we are on the road to the NEUE KLASSE as you -- as we said.
And we are partnering in the ADAS field with Qualcomm. And it's not a normal supplier
relationship, it's cooperation. We bring in IP, which we developed for more than 20 years in that
field and Qualcomm brings on -- brings its own competencies. So it's a very new approach how to
-- how to make the next level here. And again the NEUE KLASSE is only two years away.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Head of BMW Group Treasury `
Thank you very much, Oliver. And I heard that again, IAA next step towards NEUE KLASSE,
software ADAS, let's see what's in. We have time for one more question, please. Thank you.
Operator
Our last question is from `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale at Societe Generale. Please unmute your line now and
turn your camera on.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Yes, thank you. Thanks for taking my questions. Two questions, please. First of all on China. The --
you already export the iX3 from China to Europe. Given, what we've seen maybe almost been
happening with the i3 in China, do you think this may be a case for making having more flexibility
in terms of being able to export some your BEVs from China to Europe where clearly there is a
very strong demand and pricing is stronger at the moment as we've seen, for example, Tesla do
with its Model 3, Model Y.
The second question again is about the NEUE KLASSE. Clearly, you've laid out, how you're going
to roll out the production of the NEUE KLASSE. And I was wondering, is it easy to understand
obviously that you have a low cost -- low-cost manufacturing in Hungary and in Mexico, but
obviously German costs are significantly higher. So, I was wondering if you could share with us
maybe are there any production advances that you're making with the NEUE KLASSE in terms of
where you produce cars that is different from how you're producing your conventional cars at the
moment that is leading to this cost improvements as well, much in the same way that we had
other manufacturer talking about change in manufacturing that will lead them to make significant
cuts in their cost of manufacturing. Thank you.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Head of BMW Group Treasury `
Thank you very much, Stephen. We will start with your first question regarding the export of
battery electric vehicles from China to Europe with Nicolas, after which we will hand over to Oliver
regarding NEUE KLASSE.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Stephen, I have just looked into -- very precisely into the numbers regarding the iX3 to be very
precise. So you're absolutely right, as the iX3 continues to sell very well. And this is exactly why
we are growing production. We are increasing production in China and the car is selling well in
China, in Asia, and in Europe to give you an indication, our order bank without disclosing too
precisely I have them in front of me, but too precisely the numbers, we are very close to autumn -we are very confident that we will -- we will -- the iX3 will continue to contribute in a very positive
way to the increase of our overall better sales and to achieve the ambition and the target which
Oliver has outlined 15% of our -- 15% of our global sales being all electric.
Well, coming to your question about the NEUE KLASSE, what will happen -- and it actually started
today that our production is being transformed into i factories. And the i -- and the i factory, in the
name itself stands for intelligence. And it's not only about labor costs, that's one element. But
even more so, high productivity is more depending on how do you handle complexity, how are
you able -- all the advances in the artificial intelligence arena, how well you can connect them and
use them in your production system. That's the key.
And with i factories, which will of course start in Debrecen because this is always a gift, you have a
greenfield and you do everything from scratch. But we will transform the other brands very
quickly, not only to being fully electric, but we will transform them also in terms of the ability to
use artificial intelligence. And if you -- if you're able to do that, you can even have high complexity
very efficiently and you become more and more independent of the actual labor cost. Because at
the same time, we have increasing labor cost in these countries and they -- of course, they
advance rapidly and we will also -- wherever you are in this world, you will have to counter with
that highly qualified personnel will be a scarce resource. That means the ability to use automated
features in your factories, artificial intelligence becomes main ingredient of your cost position.
And I think with our approach with the i factories, we will have a very competitive stands here.
A - `Ritu Chandy, Head of BMW Group Treasury `
Thank you very much, Oliver. Thank you very much, Nicolas. Dear ladies and gentlemen, thank you
very much for your questions and that great engaging dialog. Max, I'd like to hand over back to
you now.
A - `Max-Morten Borgmann, Communications Corporate `
So thank you very much, Ritu. By the way, excellent job. Thank you. I clap my hands. Thank you
very much. Ladies and gentlemen, before we go, we have one final very important topic. As you
have heard, this is a very special Annual Conference because Nicolas, it is your last annual
conference with the BMW Group. You are still with us for a few more weeks, but today we have
you here with us in person. And we didn't want to miss the opportunity to say a few words.
32 years ago, you joined the BMW Group. For the last six years, you have been our CFO. And not
just any CFO, but someone who brings a strong strategic perspective and an international
outlook. You have been a steady presence on our Management Board and provided clear
direction. This was true especially during the last few years. Together, with Oliver, you have been
a real dream team. Furthermore, you have been an excellent ambassador for the company. Our
guests on this call can best judge that. For me, you are, I would say in German, really (Foreign
Language) a really cool authentic guy. Of course, you will still be with us for our Q1 telephone
conference and the Annual General Meeting in May. Though this is not a final farewell, but for
now, I can simply say, thank you, Nicolas.
A - `Nicolas Peter, Finance `
Well, thank you Max for your very, very kind words. Absolutely right. I've joined 32 years ago BMW,
1st of April '91. By the way, exactly the same day (Multiple Speakers) you are little bit younger than
I am, but we've joined the same day. And Oliver, I'm -- I don't know whether we've been a dream
team, but we really worked extremely well together. I'm very, very thankful also for your -- foryour trust. This was really outstanding. And I am, in particular, happy that the BMW Group is in such
a strong position.
We have a very solid foundation. We have a clear strategy moving forward. And for me the best --
the best example for our strategy and the power of our strategy is our best ramp-up, you've
mentioned what I believe our impressive numbers. And this combined with a strong weighting,
this combined with the ability to deliver against our high margin target to generate free cash flow.
And the basis of this company has always been a very, very strong teamwork between all the
different, not only Board members, but within the whole management team and this is why I
really enjoyed, I can say, every, every single, single day. So a big, big thank you for the last, in
particular, for the last couple of years. And well, all the best, I'm very optimistic that on this very
good foundation and -- that the company has chosen, I -- what I believe is a very good successor
in my role. And dear colleagues, I look very much forward to see you first, I believe, in Frankfurt, in
the next couple of weeks, in London, in Boston, in New York. So, see you very soon and thanks a
lot.
A - `Max-Morten Borgmann, Communications Corporate `
But please hand over to Oliver to one sentence.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Yes, just one sentence because we have some visitors here. You know it was not always so easy
to explain what BMW does. Our business is very complex. And I'm very, very grateful to have had
a strategic CFO, as it was said before, who could understand the peculiarities to have a strong
budget control. And you don't know how tough he was in our monthly budget control meetings,
but at the same time to be strategic and have the right feeling where we have to invest. And now
you see that you saw beginning in the last -- in the last part of last year and specifically this year,
that this is blossoming [ph]. We have strong BEV growth and that, of course, is a result of a
strategic CFO. And I must thank you for 32 years, working together, we actually really started on
the same day, and you're still here, but then after our shareholder meeting, our General Meeting,
we will dearly miss you. Thank you for everything.
A - `Max-Morten Borgmann, Communications Corporate `
Thank you very much, Oliver. And thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. I think it was a real
honor for us today. Thank you, Ritu. Thank you, Nicolas. Thank you, Oliver. And thank you to all of
us. Thank you very much and bye-bye from the BMW world. Bye-bye.