Y 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board `
Ladies and gentlemen, in 1999, 25 years ago, BMW presented the first X5, the founder of the
sporty SAV segment. And since then, the X family has been a pillar of the BMW brand. Around 12
million X vehicles have already been sold because today, the X family covers all customer wishes
in this segment, from X1 to luxury class with the X7 and XM. And now, the BMW Vision NEUE
KLASSE X looks ahead to the future of BMW and a totally new generation of BMW X models. This
future doesn't start on some far-off date. It begins next year when we turn vision into reality that
our customers can experience for themselves. With the BMW Vision NEUE KLASSE X, we're
opening up a whole new dimension for the NEUE KLASSE.
So why are we focusing on an X model? Because we aren't just ramping up e-mobility in niche
models, but in our most successful, highest volume segments. From 2025 on we expect demand
for all-electric vehicles to increase significantly. This is precisely when we will be releasing the
NEUE KLASSE onto the market from sporty sedans, which we have shown already last year at the
IAA Mobility, with a BMW Vision NEUE KLASSE to an ultra-modern X family, we will offer a variety of
models that excite our customers today, and of course in the future. The NEUE KLASSE
represents a start into a completely new model generator. It is redefining the BMW brand. With
the NEUE KLASSE, we are taking BMW into the future in design, technology and the philosophy of
the brand. For the first time, we are showcasing the systematic implementation of the automotive
industry three major areas of future mobility combined. And this means electric, fully digital and
with a clear focus on sustainability. We have significantly improved each of these aspects. Just
take the sixth generation of our battery cells, which we will use for the first time in the NEUEKLASSE. Quantum leaps in energy density will provide our customers 30% more range and 30%
faster charging.
The potential of digitalization can also be experienced in the NEUE KLASSE in totally new ways.
This is made possible by completely new electronic control units. We call them our super brains. In
total, we are using four of these superb rains in the NEUE KLASSE. Each one comes with
computing power that is up to ten times faster than current systems. And our completely
redesigned iDrive redefines the interface between humans and machines. And at the same time,
we are also making impressive advances in the field of sustainability. We're turning all the dials. In
this way, we can significantly reduce our product's carbon footprint and move even closer to
circular use of raw materials. And we are sticking to this path. Also because our customers expect
it from us. And the most important thing is, these developments do not just benefit the NEUE
KLASSE, they benefit all future BMW models. Ladies and gentlemen, all of this shows that with the
NEUE KLASSE, we aren't just opening the next chapter in the history of mobility, we are writing a
whole new book. More sheer driving pleasure, more digital experiences, more sustainability. In
other words, more BMW than ever before.
And now, ladies and gentlemen, who better to present the design of the BMW Vision NEUE
KLASSE X, `Adrian van Hooydonk, Senior Vice President BMW Group Design. Welcome Adrian.
`Adrian van Hooydonk, Senior Vice President BMW Group Design `
Ladies and gentlemen, the BMW Vision NEUE KLASSE X shows you the new design direction or
archetype for our future X models. In the exterior, we have typical BMW X proportions, a two-box
design with a lot of presence and emphasis on all four wheels. The form language is clean and
robust. The car shows wheel clearance and presence of an SAV, but no spats or add-on parts,
just a strong monolithic shape. The front-end shows yet another interpretation of the BMW face,
in which we replace chrome with light. The vertically designed kidney icon matches the more
upright overall appearance of an SAV and will therefore be the reserve for all our X models. It is
part of daytime running light and will make our cars very recognizable by day and by night. Also,
the rear shows a new light signature, broad shoulders and very crisp lines, for example, around
the BMW emblem.
Overall, the BMW Vision NEUE KLASSE looks clean and strong. A lot of new technology and
sensors are cleverly integrated, making this vehicle more intelligent than ever before, but above
all a very recognizable BMW. In the interior, the driving experience remains our focus, putting the
driver at ease and in control. And as for all upcoming NEUE KLASSE models, the key element is
our new BMW panoramic vision display. This display uses the whole width of the windscreen and
will be visible for all passengers. Together with the free cut central display and our new iconic
steering wheel, these elements are the cornerstones of our new iDrive system.
Today, we'd like to share with you a few more details of that all-new iDrive system. The
panoramic vision display will be highly customizable by the user. You will be able to select your
preferred set of information icons in a very easy way, making the car your very own. And those
personal preferences will be linked to your driver profile, of course, which means you will always
have the right information at the right time, in the right place, everything at a glance. Our free cut
central display is positioned closer to the driver and passenger, ideal for touch inputs. The central
display is very new in its shape, but the basic layout is building on our current Operating System 9
layout. This means that you will find direct touch access to your most used functions like
navigation, infotainment or climate control.
Overall, these new digital aspects of our cars will make them more intelligent and much easier towe are developing for the NEUE KLASSE will help to reduce the CO2 footprint and will create a
very personal living environment on four wheels. Now, with the two Vision cars for NEUE KLASSE,
we are showing how we are going to change the look and feel of the BMW brand. Many aspects
of our cars will be completely new and yet we believe that the NEUE KLASSE will reflect the very
essence of the BMW brand.
Thank you very much.
`Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board `
Ladies and gentlemen, you certainly couldn't ask for more BMW or more future. With the NEUE
KLASSE, we are rethinking individual mobility from the ground up. And what is more consistent
than to apply this new approach to everything that defines the core of the BMW brand. First of all,
that refers to the BMW X philosophy embodied by the BMW Vision NEUE KLASSE X. But
sportiness is also at the heart of every BMW. And it is this characteristic that the BMW Vision NEUE
KLASSE completely reimagines in a sporty sedan. And today you can see both Vision vehicles
together on one stage for the very first time.
On the one hand, it shows how consistent the NEUE KLASSE is in terms of design, technology and
the relevant parameters for sustainability. And on the other, it demonstrates how broad the NEUE
KLASSE is. Here you can see the two bookends of what we can imagine, but of course there is
still plenty of room for other models and innovations in between. I can promise you today that we
will be taking both of these Vision vehicles from the stage to the roads in a very similar form very
soon. At least six different NEUE KLASSE models will be released in the first 24 months following
the start of production. I call this an unprecedented and highly ambitious timeline, but if anyone
can do it, then it is us at BMW. The NEUE KLASSE will significantly accelerate our ramp-up of e-
mobility once again.
But BEVs, along with our models in the upper premium and luxury segment, are already our
biggest growth drivers. Last year we sold more than 375,000 all-electric vehicles. And this year,
once again, our fully electric vehicles should see significant double-digit growth. We will soon have
sold more than one million BEVs worldwide, including plug-in hybrids. We already passed the
milestone of two million electrified vehicles. Plug-in hybrids are especially popular with our
European customers, and that is one of the reasons why it only took us just over two years to
double our overall xEV deliveries from 1 million to 2 million.
For the BMW Group overall we are anticipating a slight increase in sales in 2024. The foundation
for this is our wide range of drive technologies, all of which we are systematically further
developing. And in this way we can ensure we always offer the right products and services at the
right time. This also substantially reduces our carbon footprint. At the end of 2023, we
outperformed the CO2 limit set for us by the European Union by more than 20%. And this shows
that our strategy not only reflects customer requirements, but also ensures effective CO2
reduction. Climate protection cannot be achieved successfully if it does not take customer needs
into account. It just doesn't work. And that is why we believe a comprehensive review of CO2
fleet legislation in the EU is essential. Regulatory frameworks that ignore customer needs and
market realities cannot be successful, especially if they are unable to create the necessary
conditions for alternative technologies. Then they only provide objectives, but exclude possible
solutions.
By the end of this year, we will have more than 15 fully-electric models in our lineup, from MINI,
BMW, and Rolls-Royce, as well as BMW Motorrad. And no matter if on two wheels or in four
wheels, we always offer the best of everything. And as promised, we offer at least one all-electricshare of the global BEV market. At 4.1%, it is already significantly higher than our share of the total
global market, which is at 3.3%. We still expect half our deliveries to be all-electric before 2030.
However, growth in BEVs worldwide is not linear. That was always clear to us.
Development is volatile and market-specific due to several factors. We remain as flexible as
possible, that has been our strategy for years and we have reflected that efficiently in our
architectures. We continue to prudently steer our BEV ramp-up in line with differentiated demand
in global regions and we have been successful. For us, it is important to always maintain a realistic
view of the development of e-mobility. BEV growth does not benefit from a purely ideological
approach, but from long-term planning and consistent implementation of goals. And that is why
we are creating the best possible conditions for this in our production network and supply chain
on a global scale.
The first production vehicles of the NEUE KLASSE will start rolling off the line at our new plant
Debrecen in the second half of 2025. And that is where the first SAV model on our new fully-
electric architecture will be launched. The sporty sedan, on the other hand, will ramp up from
2026 at our plant in Munich, which we are currently gearing up for the start of production. Every
second BMW produced at plant Munich is already today fully-electric. And from late 2027
onwards, our more than 100-year old main plant will exclusively build electric vehicles. We will also
be manufacturing the NEUE KLASSE at our plants in San Luis Potosi in Mexico and Shenyang in
China. And this perfectly demonstrates whether at a greenfield site or a traditional location,
whether in Europe, Asia or the Americas, we are mastering the complexity and leading all our
production sites into the future.
As you know, to master e-mobility you need powerful batteries. We've made it our mission to
understand every aspect of battery cells, from cell composition and cell format all the way to
industrial manufacturing. We are able to recreate the entire process at our Battery Cell
Competence Centre here in Munich and the Cell Manufacturing Competence Centre in Parsdorf
in Bavaria. And we are also applying our local for local principle to cell production for our batteries.
Facilities will be located in direct proximity to our vehicle plants. This has led us to build our own
production facilities for gen 5, as we are now doing in Thailand and for the sixth generation of
BMW high voltage batteries in Hungary, the United States of America, Mexico and China. This
ensures short transport distances and secures our supply against unforeseen events around the
globe.
From 2026, gen 6 batteries for our plants in Bavaria will come from our new location in Irlbach-
Strabkirchen. Establishing an industrial site like this is no longer a straightforward process,
especially in Germany. We sought frank and open discussions with the residents in the early
stages and explained the sustainable design and the advantages of our location in lower Bavaria
to them. And this is how we build trust. And we are very pleased that residents voted strongly in
support of our new site. We see this as confirmation of our efforts.
The future of e-mobility also entails integrating vehicles into the power grid. With the NEUE
KLASSE, we're introducing bi-directional charging, which we have already tested extensively. Our
customers can feed electrical energy stored in the vehicle back into their own house, electrical
devices like your e-bike or the public power grid. This lowers electricity costs and helps stabilize
networks. As you can see, with the NEUE KLASSE, we are taking mobility to a new level, and at the
same time becoming an entirely new company. All BMW models will benefit from the innovations
of the NEUE KLASSE and that means in the future you will recognize the NEUE KLASSE in every
BMW. We are laying the foundation for this right here, right now, because this is the best way we
can continually fulfill our aspiration, strong today and strong tomorrow.Later, I will show you how we are accomplishing this today with new models like the BMW 5 Series
Touring and the new MINI Aceman. Ultimately, it is our strong products that generate strong
results. Our CFO, `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer will tell you more. We will see each other again after that.
`Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. 2023 was another successful year for the BMW Group. We
delivered strong results in the current business, while securing our future viability through
targeted investments. Strong demand for our attractive products, better availability of vehicles
and an easing of the supply situation led to a positive volume development. After the halfway
mark in the year, we accordingly raised our guidance for both deliveries and EBIT margin in the
automotive segment. Thanks to our disciplined management of the business, we delivered yet
again on all our targets.
I'll now take you through our results. For the full year, we delivered 2.55 million vehicles
worldwide, which is 6.4% over 2022. We achieved significant growth with our all-electric vehicles.
Deliveries reached more than 375,000 units, or approximately 15% of total sales. At 9.8%, the
EBIT margin in the automotive segment was well within the increased corridor of 9% to 10.5%.
Excluding depreciation and amortization for BBA assets from the purchase price allocation of
EUR1.4 billion, the EBIT margin was 10.8%.
The Group EBT margin of 11% exceeded our strategic target of 10% again. We also continued to
reduce CO2 emissions in our European fleet. With 102.1 grams per kilometer, we were at 26.4
grams, in other words, 20.5% below the target set by the European Union. At Group level, our
revenues reached EUR155.5 billion, which is 9% higher than 2022. Adjusted for currency
translation effects, revenues increased by 13.1%. The increase was driven by the higher delivery
volumes and positive product mix effects. In 2023, our earnings before tax at Group level
amounted to EUR17.1 billion. It is important to note that Group earnings in 2022 of EUR23.5 billion,
included a one-off profit of EUR7.7 billion. This was due to a technical accounting effect related to
BBA full consolidation, namely the revaluation of our existing equity interests. Without this effect,
Group earnings in 2023 were EUR1.3 billion, or 8% above 2022. This also translates through to
earnings per share, that were at EUR15.70 in 2022. Excluding the one-off profit from BBA. In 2023,
earnings per share of EUR17.70 were 12.8% above the previous year.
That brings me to the results of the individual segments. I'll start with the automotive segment.
The BMW Group delivered 2.55 million vehicles to customers worldwide in 2023. This
corresponds to solid growth of 6.4% in line with our increased guidance. Momentum came in
particular from models in the upper price segment such as the BMW 7 Series, X7, and iX, as well
as from the all-new BMW X1. Our all-electric vehicles continue to be a key growth driver. In 2023,
BEVs made up almost 15% of our total sales. We also delivered over 190,000 plug-in hybrid
vehicles. In total electrified vehicles therefore accounted for over 22% of sales during the year.
Revenues for the automotive segment totaled EUR132.3 billion. This amounts to a 7% increase
year-on-year. At almost EUR13 billion, the segment's operating result was over 20% higher than
2022. This resulted in an EBIT margin of 9.8%. This is both at the higher end of our long-term
strategic target corridor of 8% to 10% and well within the increased target corridor of 9% to
10.5% for the year 2023.
Looking at the operating result in detail, the increase in automotive EBIT benefited from a net
effect of volume, model, mix and pricing, yielding a tailwind of EUR2.4 billion. This was mainly
driven by the higher volume and higher share of top-end vehicles, including BMW M models,
which compensated for the higher BEV share. As expected, we saw some price normalization in
the new car and used car markets through the end of the year. Compared to 2022, we see thatEBIT in 2023 was impacted by EUR600 million from the net balance of currency and raw material
positions. This difference is mainly due to currency effects from the development of the Chinese
renminbi and US dollar.
Given lower raw material prices through the end of the year, we saw a slight tailwind compared to
2022. However, this was overcompensated by headwinds from increased supplier payments. As
planned, research and development expenditure rose significantly to EUR7.8 billion, almost
EUR600 million higher than the previous year. The R&D ratio for the year came in at 5%. Due to
higher revenues, this is the same level as 2022, although overall spending increased year-on-
year. Expenditure for R&D mainly focused on three areas, the electrification and digitalization of
the fleet, automated driving functions and expenditure for new models. Due to higher expenses,
mostly for IT projects, selling and administrative expenses increased by about EUR400 million.
The position other cost changes reflects amongst others higher material costs as mentioned at
Q3, as well as lower residual value profits than the previous year. In 2022, a negative one-off
impact of EUR1.8 billion was due to effects related to the first-time consolidation of BBA.
Moving on to the free cash-flow result for 2023, at year-end, free cash flow in the automotive
segment reached EUR6.9 billion. It should be noted that free cash flow in the previous year
included a positive effect of over EUR5 billion in net cash acquired from BBA. Without this effect,
our free cash flow in 2023 was almost EUR900 million higher year-on-year or an increase of 13%.
The change in working capital of EUR2.7 billion mainly reflects the increase in inventories to
maintain stock levels in markets worldwide. This ensured we have sufficient supply, including for
new models, to meet the robust global market demand entering the new year.
Capital expenditure for the year totaled EUR8.8 billion. Our investment in 2023 primarily focused
on the fifth and sixth-generation battery cell technology, digitalization of products and processes
and vehicle projects. In addition, we invested in construction of our plants for example, in
Debrecen, Hungary, where we will launch the NEUE KLASSE next year. The CapEx ratio for the
year was 5.7%. Changes in provisions had a positive impact on free cash flow of EUR1.5 billion.
The position other items reflects primarily tax payments.
That brings me to our financial services segment, a key enabler for our business. Financial
services is already an integral part of the customer journey and will become even more important
with the roll out of our direct agency sales model. In 2023, the number of new financing and
leasing contracts concluded with retail customers, came in at the same level as the previous year
with 1.5 million new contracts. This is a very solid result considering the business environment, with
elevated interest rates and highly competitive landscape.
Business developed positively quarter-for-quarter. While new contracts with end customers were
down 20% in Q1 year-on-year, in Q4 contracts were up by 17% year-on-year. The share of new
BMW Group vehicles either leased or financed by the financial services segment stood at 38.2%
in 2023. Average financing volume per vehicle increased due to an improved product mix in the
automotive business. Overall, new business volume increased by 3.4% to EUR57.3 billion.
Segment earnings before tax amounted to EUR2.96 billion. The decrease reflects primarily two
factors, higher refinancing costs due to rising interest rates as well as the overall declining
contract portfolio. Revenues from the resale of end-of-lease vehicles remained at a high level,
but were lower than previous year as used car prices started to normalize. We expect this trend
to continue in 2024, leading to a lower result from off-lease vehicles. At 0.18% the credit loss ratio
remained at low level, after increasing the target range for the year to between 16% and 19% in
August, return on equity reached 17.2% for the full year.That brings me to the motorcycle segment. In its 100th anniversary year, the BMW Motorrad
brand achieved record deliveries with over 209,000 units. An impressive accomplishment. All
major sales regions saw growth in 2023, with particular momentum coming from Europe with
4.7% and China with 2.8%. The EBIT margin for the segment reached 8.1%. At EUR259 million, the
segment's operating result was at the same level as 2022. Finally, you see the combined result
from the other entities segment and intersegment eliminations. Other entities recorded a loss in
earnings before tax of EUR100 million. The decrease compared to 2022 was mainly driven by
negative fair value measurement effects, on interest rate hedging transactions. Consolidations
increased in earnings before tax to EUR1.3 billion. Lower eliminations associated with the leasing
business had a positive effect compared to the previous year.
Ladies and gentlemen at the BMW Group, we remain focused on ensuring that our shareholders
benefit from the company's success. The board of management and the supervisory board will
therefore propose a dividend of EUR6 per share of common stock and EUR6.02 per share of
preferred stock to the annual general meeting. This results in a total dividend payout of
approximately EUR3.8 billion. The higher dividend payout and earnings per share in 2022
reflected considerable one-off effects from the consolidation of BBA in our Group profit.
Adjusted for the one-off effect, the dividend as well as earnings per share are higher in 2023.
The proposed dividend for 2023 represents a payout ratio of 33.7%. This is within our long-term
strategic target range of 30% to 40% and also notably higher than the payout ratio in 2022.
At the end of June 2023, we successfully concluded the first program of our share buyback at
EUR2 billion, which was approved at the annual general meeting in May 2022. On July 3rd last
year, we launched a second program of up to EUR2 billion, with the first tranche concluding on
December 31st. In total, EUR1.2 billion in share buyback were completed in 2023. The second
tranche, with a volume of EUR500 million, started on January 2nd and will be carried out by June
28, 2024 at the latest. The second share buyback program will be completed by December 31st,
2025 at the latest. Taking the proposed dividend and last year's share buyback together, the
total payout of EUR5 billion represents 92% of auto free cash flow available to BMW AG's
shareholders. This underscores the financial strength and robust cash flow generated by our
operations, which supports optimal shareholder return.
Moving on from 2023, what are we expecting in 2024? In the automotive segment, we expect
slight growth in volumes, driven by our young and attractive product portfolio. Specifically, we
should see significant growth of our BEV share as well as a double-digit growth in the upper
segment. We anticipate an increase in material costs and supplier payments. However, this should
be offset by a net tailwind from FX and commodities. The net impact of volume mix and price
should be slightly positive. And we will take our disciplined approach forward into 2024. At the
same time, lower profits from off-lease vehicles will weigh on auto EBIT.
In 2024, we will hit our CapEx and R&D peak as planned and communicated. The continued
implementation of our electrification and digitalization strategy will lead to greater research and
development costs. Expenditures related to the NEUE KLASSE, such as further development of
the sixth generation battery technology and preparation in the production network, will also
impact the Group's earnings and result in greater capital expenditure.
For the current financial year we therefore expect a CapEx ratio above 6% and an R&D ratio
above 5%. After '24, both ratios will gradually return to our strategic corridors, which remain
unchanged. That means for CapEx, less than 5% and for the R&D ratio, between 4% and 5%.
Despite the significant investment in future technologies, we will generate above EUR6 billion in
automotive free cash flow in 2024. Financial services will benefit from the higher auto sales and
stabilization of the interest rate environment. However, a decline in used car values will negativelyimpact the result. And given the higher lease penetration rate, we will see a lower eliminations
result.
What do we expect for our key performance indicators in 2024? In the automotive segment,
deliveries of BMW, MINI, and Rolls-Royce brand vehicles are expected to rise slightly year-on-year.
The segment's EBIT margin should fall within our strategic target corridor of 8% to 10%. The
share of all-electric vehicles relative to the total deliveries is expected to increase significantly
compared to 2023. In the motorcycle segments, deliveries are expected to increase slightly with
an EBIT margin within our target range of 8% to 10%. Return on equity in the financial services
segment is forecast to land between 14% and 17%.
As expected, the supply of and demand for vehicles is continuing to stabilize. It is therefore
expected that revenues from remarketing lease returns will fall further compared to 2023. For
the Group's pretax profit, we expect a slight decrease. This is due primarily to the high level of
expenses for research and development and capital expenditures as outlined before. The
decrease in the financial services business will also contribute to the slight decrease in Group
profit before tax. The Group's headcount is forecast to increase slightly.
Ladies and gentlemen, at the BMW Group, our strong brands and attractive products have long
formed the foundation for our success. And will continue to do so in the future. We allocate our
capital in investments efficiently in line with our long-term strategy. At the same time, we remain
focused on cost discipline and profitability. Our strategic perspective gives us clarity on our
consistent path going forward, while our operational excellence secures our future competitive
advantage and the overall health of the business.
Our high flexibility allows us to meet market demand and consistently deliver on targets. And in
2023, it underpinned our profitable growth. The increase in our BEV sales to almost 15% put us in
a strong position to overachieve the CO2 targets. We also recorded growth in the upper
segment, resulting in a balanced and profitable mix. As you know, our industry is known for its
high complexity for long life cycles and for tough regulatory requirements, which are ever-
increasing. That is why our planning horizon always spans several years. As the Vision NEUE
KLASSE X proves, our strategy ensures that we anticipate trends in the industry to remain ahead.
We are fully committed to deliver on our long-term strategic target of an 8% to 10% EBIT margin
every year. And we deliver what we promise.
We have the right product line-up and the flexibility to meet customer needs across the globe.
And our product offering is growing. We will therefore continue with our profitable growth and
also fulfill our targets, assuming market conditions remain stable. As everyone has seen in the
BEV market in China, this is not always a given. At the BMW Group, we will maintain our balanced
steering of multiple individual objectives to achieve all of our strategic priorities.
Our strong performance today is paving our road to tomorrow's continued success. We remain
confident about 2024 financial year and beyond. And now it's time to hear from Oliver again. He'll
show you what we have in the pipeline across all brands to drive our success in the coming years.
`Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board `
Ladies and gentlemen, our BMW Motorrad brand is well on its way to emission-free mobility in
urban spaces. I like to ride a motorbike myself whenever I have the time. So I'm delighted that we
are launching many new models this year. Three of them stand out particularly. Here you can see
the new CE02. It is the second fully-electric model after the CE04 standing next to it, which is the
undisputed market leader in its segment. There is something special about the new CE02 thatIn Germany and other countries, you only have to be 15 years old to ride it. And the M1000 XR is
already the second M motorcycle model. There are also a lot of fans eagerly awaiting the R 1300
GS Adventure, a comprehensive offering on two wheels, whatever customers are looking for,
they will find it at BMW Motorrad. Just like BMW Motorrad, our MINI brand has a passionate fan
community around the globe. With our new MINI family, we're taking the brand into a new
dimension. Just as the NEUE KLASSE is doing for the BMW brand and now MINI is gearing up for a
world premiere the Aceman. This will be the third member of the new MINI family and the first
MINI we're offering exclusively as an all-electric vehicle. And even if it's still camouflaged, I can
promise you it is unmistakably a MINI inside and out. Signature design, go-cart feeling and digitally
in tune with the times.
And all this combined with a minimal ecological footprint. And that describes not only the
Aceman, but the entire new MINI family. The Aceman fills the gap between the Cooper and the
Countryman, which has grown significantly bigger. The all-new Countryman has been well-
received, whether with a combustion engine or all-electric. And the all-new Cooper, which will be
available starting in May, is already sold out, for the next four months. Our new MINI family will be
built at our Spotlight joint venture in China, in Oxford UK and for the first time in Germany at our
plant in Leipzig. And in the second half of the year, we will launch the all-new MINI Convertible,
which many fans are eagerly waiting for. Together with the five-door MINI Cooper, our new MINI
family will then be complete.
And now let's jump from one end of our portfolio to the other. From the MINI typical go-cart
feeling to our ultra-luxury mark. Spectre is the first battery-electric Rolls-Royce model to hit the
showrooms. With its all-electric drivetrain, we are bringing the driving experience at Rolls-Royce
to a whole new level. That feels effortless, just like a magic carpet ride. We've never had so many
pre-orders for a Rolls-Royce model. And this shows that our exclusive customers acknowledge
how perfectly Rolls-Royce and electrification fit together. Rolls-Royce is an unparalleled success
story. Our luxury brand, with its unique product portfolio has never been as strong and as
differentiated as it is today. And let's not forget, the significant contribution margin it earns for the
company.
And now, ladies and gentlemen, as promised, the new BMW 5 Series Touring. BMW is where
touring meets e-drive. No one else in the segment has a vehicle like this on offer. The i5 Touring
will be available from May. It delivers an electric range of over 500 kilometres and is especially
popular in Europe. The 5 Series sedan and the i5 will also be available exclusively in China with a
longer wheelbase. Both will be built at BMW's Brilliance plant in Dadong. Our high-performance
brand, BMW M, also offers a technological spectrum. With the i4 M50, the i5 M60 sedan, the i5
M60 Touring, the ix M60 and the i7 M70, we have five all-electric models on offer. And by the
way, the all-electric i4 M50 is yet again our best-selling BMW M model. And this year, fans can
especially look forward to the new addition of the M5, first as a sedan and later also as a Touring.
Both M variants come with an impressive partially electrified drivetrain.
With the BMW M hybrid system, they're able to drive more than 70 kilometers on electric power
alone. Our plug-in hybrids remain an important element of our drivetrain portfolio. And why?
Because they provide a boost to e-mobility that should not be underestimated. Many customers
discover and come to appreciate the advantages of electric driving in this way. The 5 Series and
the 5 Series Touring are concrete examples of how BMW is implementing a variety of drivetrains
to meet very diverse customer needs. All of this is based on our flexible architecture, which
enables us to cover the entire spectrum, from powerful BEVs to smart plug-in hybrids, all the way
to highly efficient combustion engines, and of course high-performance M models.The success of this approach has been reflected in our key figures for several years now in sales
and profit margins. With our broad technological approach, we are already thinking one step
ahead. We have been testing the BMW iX5 Hydrogen in selected countries under everyday
conditions since last year. Our pilot fleets world tour has raised awareness of the role hydrogen
can play in the energy transition, not just formability, but industrywide. Our vehicles performed
well under various climate and traffic conditions and the public response has been
overwhelmingly positive. This was no surprise to us, since hydrogen fueled cell drivetrains
combine the best of both worlds, the advantages of an emission-free e-drive with a fast refueling
people are used to. That's why we see hydrogen as an additional alternative drive technology
that could make a lot of sense in the mid to long-term.
And for us, our aspiration to be strong tomorrow means being already strong today. This is
especially true of the new edition of the best-selling X model, the BMW X3, which will be
released later this year. The new X3 will be available with a choice of highly efficient combustion
engines or as a plug-in hybrid. And at the same time, we are preparing for the next major leap,
the NEUE KLASSE is built on a separate new architecture already tailored today to the electric
vehicles of tomorrow. This enables us to make the best possible use of economies of scale as
demand for electric model grows. Vehicle architectures are important, but they are not a decisive
lever, that would be our technology clusters. They enable innovations and technological advances
to be scaled efficiently across all architectures. Behind this is a modular principle that allows us roll
our technologies to different vehicle concept and segments. And this ensures that the
innovations of the NEUE KLASSE will benefit the entire BMW model line-up in the coming years.
We don't divide our products into old and new, but always offer our customers the latest
technology, regardless of the vehicle's powertrain. And we are using the NEUE KLASSE as our
innovation and technology booster for the entire portfolio and for all major future mobility topics
that we implement in our vehicles, including our design. The NEUE KLASSE is our impulse initiator
and enabler to roll out new technologies over the next few years. As you can see, we will
continue to serve all markets according to their needs, providing top products in all segments.
The full range of four drive technologies, regardless of which architecture they're built on, is just
one aspect here.
The BMW Group is a tech company. The ability to manage this complexity to orchestrate scale
and further develop technologies, is one of the BMW Group's greatest strength and a unique
selling point. And with this in mind, we offer our customers the best coherent overall package.
This is our aspiration and our goal. It might even be the most important secret ingredient in our
company's success. We already showcase our innovative strength in automated driving with
models like the BMW 5 Series and BMW 7 Series. The new BMW 5 Series was the first car in
Germany, approved for partially automated driving at up to 130 kilometers per hour on
motorways. A completely new feature is the active line change assistant, with eye confirmation.
The driver simply glances briefly in the exterior mirror and the car changes lanes.
Starting in March 2024 our customers will be able to experience level 3 highly automated driving
in the BMW 7 Series. This means you can let go of the wheel and temporarily turn your attention
to something else. Here 7 Series takes care of speed and distance control all by itself, as well as
lane tracking. The steps to automated driving is one of the three main stories of the online
version of the BMW Group Report 2023. I invite you to click through our online report. Our award-
winning online report will once again provide you with a compact overview of everything we are
working on. You can experience what moves us and try out our interactive KPI calculator. Just like
the title says, driving the next era.Our spectacular Vision vehicles show the direction in which we are taking mobility in line with the
major topics of the future. The most important aspect for our customer is what does it feel like
on the road? In the board of management, we already got to drive a pre-series model of the
NEUE KLASSE, and we all agree that it is sheer driving pleasure at a whole new level. This is
something only we can do. It is typically BMW. A lot of people talk about transformation, and that
is when one thing replaces another. But in our industry, it is more a case of things happening at
the same time, parallel approaches that still unmistakably move us forwards. And that is why the
BMW Group is committed to continuous and simultaneous progress through bold leaps in
innovation and responsible action.
And that brings us full circle, strong today and strong tomorrow. Thank you.
Unidentified Speaker
Ladies and gentlemen. Now it is your turn, at 10:30 AM, we will start with our first Q&A session for
journalists, which will be held in German. An English translation will be offered through the
streaming site. All members of the board of management will be available for your questions.
The second Q&A for investors and analysts in English will begin at 12:30 PM. For this session,
`Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board and `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer will take your questions. We are looking forward to having you in our
Q&A session soon. Feel free to video call so that we can see you here in the room. We would
appreciate, if you already started dialing in. We will now get the studio ready and see you again at
10:30 AM. Thank you very much.
Questions And Answers
A - Unidentified Speaker
(Foreign Language). Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues. Let me now
introduce the members of the management board to you. Starting on the far right, that is the far
left for you, there we've got `Milan Nedeljkovic, Production, Production; next to him, `Ilka Horstmeier, People and Real Estate, Labour Relations Director, Member
of the Management Board of BMW AG in charge of People and Real Estate; then `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer,
Finance; to my left, of course, our Chairman of the Board of Management, `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board; next to
him, `Frank Weber, Development, Development; and then here we've got our new member on the management
board for customers brands and sales, `Jochen Goller, Customer, Brands, Sales; and next to him, `Joachim Post, Purchasing and Supplier Network, Purchasing
and Supplier network.
We will stream your questions into the room, also with the video if you like. (Operator
Instructions). And please bear in mind your video will appear on the screen behind us until your
question has been fully answered. This year again, we've got participants who have joined us
from all over the world. Therefore, we kindly ask for your understanding if there are some short
technical delays. Please bear in mind this Q&A session will take place in German. Of course, we
offer simultaneous translation into English. And you can also ask your question in English if you like.
Our management board members will answer in German and you will then get the simultaneous
translation into English.
Now, without further ado, let's now turn to the first question. And the first question is going to be
asked by `Nick Gibbs, Automotive News by Automotive News. Nicks -- Nick, the floor is yours.
Q - `Nick Gibbs, Automotive News `
Thank you very much. Sorry, I just unmuted myself there. Thank you very much for taking my
question. My question is about a comment that you made, Mr. Zipse, in which you said that, you
believe a comprehensive review of CO2 fleet legislation in the EU is essential. You also statedthat, you're in a strong position to overachieve the CO2 targets. What is changing and what
would you like to happen in that comprehensive review? Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thanks, `Nick Gibbs, Automotive News, `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board, please.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board `
Well, Nick, what we are experiencing here in Europe is a three-stage adjustment of legislation.
The first stage will already start next year 2025, with minus 25% reduction of CO2 emissions in
the fleet for every OEM. And then, there is on another tightening in the year 2030 with minus
55%, and then finally minus 100% in 2035. Now, what's important is to have a review to be held in
2026, to see to what extent the OEMs achieve the targets that have been set for them under the
given constraints. Because, first of all, we've got to have the development of the charging
infrastructure in all countries of Europe, how it's going to evolve, not only in Germany.
Secondly, we also need to see how customers behave in the years between 2025 and 2030.
And then, of course, the third key question is which OEMs can keep up with the very rapid
technological development. And I think, this three-stage character, that is what we've got to bear
in mind. And we must not only steer at 2035. Already in 2025, we will see a much tighter
competition in terms of achieving the CO2 targets. And that's something what we have to closely
monitor to see how it evolves for customers and also for the entire industry, because I think we
also need to take a pragmatic approach when it comes to real climate protection.
It's no help, if we have got a legislation which is not effective in terms of climate protection. And a
similar (inaudible) approach is what we see with the EPA regulation in the US, where of course,
they have a major pressure that they apply, but of course, they're very flexible in terms of the
timing.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Well, thanks so far. Thank `Nick Gibbs, Automotive News for that question. And the next question now is by Laurent
Meillaud [ph] from Auto News.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Yes. Hello, everybody. My question is for Mr. Zipse. It's about hydrogen. It seems to me that NEUE
KLASSE platform is compliant with fuel cells. So the question is, will you launch a new model series
in the next years. And have you made the decision yet or not? Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thanks a lot. So that was a question on hydrogen. And once again, Mr. Zipse.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board `
Well, as we've stated several times, our drive technology is based upon five elements. Well, you
have heard about four of them, gasoline, diesel, plug-in hybrid and BEVs. But if you look at
development all over the world, and especially in the US, if you look at the investments in
(Technical Difficulty) too much stuck in the discussion of whether it's green or blue hydrogen. But
what we tend to ignore is that this is an important technology for zero-emission driving. And with
very short charging times, emission-free mobility can thus be achieved. And at the same time, we
can use an existing refueling infrastructure. And that's something which sometimes is, whichshifted to the background in that overall discussion. And I think it's not going to be the dominating
drive in the next 10-years. Certainly not electromobility will be the dominant one. But for a
technology focusing OEM, like BMW, I think it's the right approach to offer a vehicle of this
technology towards the end of the decade.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thanks. And this takes us to the third question, which is `Christina Amann, Reuters from Reuters, please.
Q - `Christina Amann, Reuters
Good morning. I hope you can hear me well.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes, we can. And now we can also see you. Including your green flower right behind you.
Q - `Christina Amann, Reuters
Back there, all right there it is. I've got a couple of questions. On the one hand, about the margin,
you're really sticking to the 8% and will you -- continuing to do so is going to be enough in the
long run, or will you have to adjust that margin target in the next two years. And the second
question is also related to that. Do you still intend to make sure that the NEUE KLASSE will also
reach that kind of margin. And when do you want to generate the same kind of money with
electromobility as with combustion engines?
And did I get you right that revenues will be slightly declining next year. Now, if the margin stays
the same, and if profits decrease while deliveries increase, that means that revenues would have
to be stable or slightly decreasing. Please help me out on this one. And next question is, how
confident are you about your BEV numbers, because PHEVs more than 50% before 30%. Now,
looking at the current market development, will you have to adjust your expectation?
A - Unidentified Speaker
All right, so these have been four questions, Ms. Amann, we start with the first three, margin
parity and revenues. That's something for Mr. `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Good morning, Ms. Amann. I'm happy to answer your questions. The 8% to 10% is not only our
strategic range for our automotive EBIT margin. And we have also proven that we are able to
achieve that range also last year. And we've got the same plan in our long-term planning. We've
got a very good mix in the year 2023 alone, and we expect that the same will happen in 2024,
which means in terms of the portfolio, we can organize everything properly to stay within that 8%
to 10% range. I think that's an important message which really deserves to be repeated several
times.
Margin parity. Now here there's nothing really new either. You know that with the NEUE KLASSE, of
course, we are massively working on reducing the cost of production. And next year, with the
start of production, we will launch our new products. The so-called margin parity, however, will
only be achieved with the step-by-step ramp-up of the NEUE KLASSE. And margin parity as such,
now here the question is always what you look at specifically, whether you look at individual
models and compare them or you compare an average of UKL and KKL. I can only emphasizethat, we achieve good margins with all of our BEVs and we achieve our minimum returns. That's
something I'd like to emphasize at this point.
Now, regarding revenues, very quickly. Now, I do not see any decline in revenues. We do see an
increase in volume and also in revenues. That's how we have started into the new year.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much. Thanks also, Ms. Amann for your questions. And now we've got the next
question by Daniel Swick from Develt [ph].
Q - Unidentified Participant
Good morning from Berlin. Can you hear me?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes, we can hear you. We can also see you.
Q - Unidentified Participant
I've got two aspects, I'd like to touch upon. On the one hand, the BEV development this year in
Germany, now in terms of electromobility, we see a somewhat subdued sentiment. And where
do you see the highest growth rates for electromobility this year? Because it seems you're
sticking to your targets? And then two more things on raw materials. Raw material prices of
course do have a massive impact onto your margin parity between BEVs and combustion
engines. Now you've got a lot of direct contracts also with raw material suppliers. Now how high is
this share of raw material costs, which are covered by such direct contracts, which means how
dependent are you on the volatility of the raw material prices?
And secondly, with your raw materials, do you also cover larger parts of the supply chain. So do
you have any plans to enter into refinery cathode materials and to conclude respective contracts
with suppliers.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Well, thanks Mr. Swick. Now I'm looking to my far left, so to `Jochen Goller, Customer, Brands, Sales and `Joachim Post, Purchasing and Supplier Network. We're
starting with `Jochen Goller, Customer, Brands, Sales and the BEV development in Germany and beyond. Jochen, please.
A - `Jochen Goller, Customer, Brands, Sales `
Good morning, Mr. Swick. Now, last year we have successfully wrapped up our electromobility. Mr.
Zipse mentioned 375,000 BEVs and also a very stable PHEV share. More than 170,000, 180,000
PHEVs have been sold. And for this year again we see a strong demand for our BEVs and also
stable demand for the PHEVs. So I think the reality in the market is much better than the
sentiment. And we have invested massively in our models, our 5 Series is ramping up, including
the i5. And that's why we also see strong growth for BEVs in all regions worldwide, also in
Germany. And we also see a stable demand for PHEVs.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thanks Jochen. And this takes us to the second part of the question that was everything about
raw materials, prices, dependency, volatility. `Joachim Post, Purchasing and Supplier Network, please.A - `Joachim Post, Purchasing and Supplier Network `
Well, fundamentally with raw materials we've got a highly integrated strategy within the Group,
which also means that wherever possible we use financial derivatives for hedging of raw material
prices. Thus any volatility of raw materials can be buffered through financial derivatives. And
secondly, of course, that applies especially to battery raw materials, is to conclude direct
contracts with suppliers in order to have reliable access to raw materials.
Now you mentioned the potential investments in refineries or cathode materials, now in battery
cell production and also in the supply chain, we do have a focus on a well-developed supplier
market, which exists there. And of course, of course we have a high degree of volatility in that
market. And that's why, we decided to use the full potential of the market through multiple
sourcing strategies.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Well, thank you very much. That was our colleague Daniel Swick from Develt. And the next
question is also coming up, that is Bill Boston from Wall Street Journal. Hi, Bill.
Bill, can you hear us? We cannot hear you.
Q - `William Boston, Wall Street Journal
Sorry. Just technical. (Foreign Language). So I have three short questions. Number one, Mr. Zipse,
what do you think of the considerations in Europe, in the United States to fight Chinese car
imports? Is that the right thing to do or not?
Number two, in the last year, if I understood correctly, you had about 7% plug-in hybrids delivered
last year. Due to the currently weaker demand for BEVs in Europe and the United States, is the
delivery share in this year when it comes to PHEVs, is it going to increase? Are you also going to
have to realign the production in the United States more towards PHEVs than just BEVs?
And the last question is, you've mentioned it, President Biden sort of eased the framework for
car manufacturers. If you were to apply this to Europe, how would that look like in Europe? What
would have to be done specifically, in order to have sort of an easing for the car manufacturer
conditions in order to also achieve the climate goals? Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much, Bill. I would say, number one, China and cars and the ban and President
Biden and the regulatory element also when it comes to Europe and climate, that would be Mr.
Zipse, and then the second part would be Mr. Goller. Mr. Zipse?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board `
Thank you very much for your questions. I think what's very important is free trade needs to be
our North Star, our guiding principle. And at BMW, we really fight for that. When it comes to the EU
anti-subsidy investigation, we have a very clear position. The European automotive industry, when
it comes to the BMW Group is not massively damaged by the import of Chinese automobiles nor
is it in the interest of the EU to further impose customs on these products. We've always been of
this opinion, we once again confirm this.
The second thing is that you're certainly alluding to the past EPA easing in regulations that was
passed not too long ago. I think we have to see, I think the approach is going to be the samegoing forward. And of course, no details have been published just yet. It's going to be
challenging, but as we're used to from the United States, you just have to deal with it in a
pragmatic way. So it's not as ideological when it comes to the timeline here, and we are very
happy with that. We will continue to exist in a very demanding regulatory environment like you can
see in Europe, we already outperformed the regulatory demand by 20%. So we'll just look at the
United States and what's coming out of there. But we think it's wrong to make a comparison with
Europe, to set the exact point in time when certain targets have to be met, especially when it's
about pure exit strategies.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much. The second part of the question was regarding PHEVs, Bill Boston wanted
to know whether that is going to increase. `Jochen Goller, Customer, Brands, Sales?
A - `Jochen Goller, Customer, Brands, Sales `
Good morning. Now, also coming back to last year, which is going to also be a trend for this year,
across all global regions, we've seen a significant increase for BEV volumes with a stable PHEV
sales situation. And also for this year, we're expecting a significant increase of the BEVs as well as
a stability of the PHEVs. The good thing is that due to our flexible drive strategy, we can always
mix in more PHEVs. So, for example, we see a very strong demand for our X5 plug-in hybrid. So
globally speaking, we expect strong BEV growth and a stable PHEV situation. But we are
absolutely capable to react flexibly to regional differences.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Right. This much for our friend and colleague, Bill Boston. Thank you very much. Next question is
from `Markus Klausen, Dow Jones at Dow Jones.
Q - `Markus Klausen, Dow Jones
Good morning. Thank you very much for allowing me to ask these questions. I have two
questions. Number one, about the Chinese market. Number two, about the price development at
leasing returns. In Q4, you were able to increase Chinese revenue in double digits. What do you
expect for the current quarter and also for the full year in China? Maybe you can also say
something on the Chinese market in general, the price environment.
The second question is the leasing returns that apparently is going to significantly go down. The
momentum seems to expedite here. Looking at the ongoing development of the year, can you
tell us any more about this? Can you give us a bit of explanation as well. And do you see a
bottoming out?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Sure. Thank you very much. First, `Jochen Goller, Customer, Brands, Sales. And then leasing returns, `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer. Jochen,
please.
A - `Jochen Goller, Customer, Brands, Sales `
Good morning, Mr. Klausen. China, last year we were slightly outperforming the Chinese market
with the BMW brand. The market grew about 5%. So we really proved ourselves. This year, we're
assuming a slight growth of the overall Chinese market. And the same thing, of course, we also
want to achieve for the BMW Group. We definitely want to continue to grow -- to grow in the
market and be competitive. The price situation, of course, the market is harder. There's lots ofnew market entrants, but we definitely set ourselves up for that as well. We have very much
invested in local products. Our new 5 Series is only ramping up in the long wheelbase version,
both as an ICE as well as an i5 version. And we also have a model change with a new X3. So it's a
very important model. And that's why we are absolutely confident, that even this year, we're
going to be able to grow slightly with the Chinese market.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much, Jochen. Second part, the outlook for leasing returns. `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer. Walter?
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Oh, sorry. And yes, also, good morning. In 2023, we already found out that we had higher
positive residual values in the first half year than in the second half year. Now, what is that due to?
The availability of new vehicles of all manufacturers is now basically given across the board. Again,
that's why of course there's more pressure on used car buys, as you can, for example, also see in
the Manheim index for other companies as well. We assume that this trend is going to continue in
this way. And is also going to materialize at a lower level in the first half of 2024, than in the
second half of 2023. And that's why we're assuming that these positive residual value revenues
that we generated, we still will have them. We will have them at a lower level than last year
though.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much. That was `Markus Klausen, Dow Jones. We are now moving on to the next question. The
next question is Max Hegler from Sight [ph].
Q - Unidentified Participant
Good morning to my hometown. Two questions.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes, I know you can say this so nicely, you're sitting in Hamburg. But Mr. Hegler can tell -- you don't
forget us. You keep thinking about us. So that's great. Thank you.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Yeah. Very happy to always be back in Munich, whether virtually or in person. But back to business.
Yes, absolutely, now, you've already spoken a little bit about the business, but speaking of the
ICE exit in Europe, 2026, this assessment, this evaluation, we've already talked about it, but what
is supposed to come out of that? And then also the EVP fraction, which is relatively close to you,
politically speaking, of course, announced an exit from the exit. So is your exit to not set an exit
goal at all, so completely scratched 2035 and the market is supposed to regulate it. I didn't quite
understand that. That's question one.
And then Mr. Luca de Meo, your colleague and ACEA Head, presented a large paper. I don't know
if it was as a Renault Head or ACEA, where it says more European cooperation, especially with
software, more economic steering via Brussels and then also regarding the ICE situation, an
adjustment of the intermediate targets. Do you agree with all of that as BMW, or what is your
stance on that ACEA paper? Thank you.
A - Unidentified SpeakerThank you. I think both of those questions go to our CEO. I would like to just remind you that Mr.
Zipse was the President until just recently at ACEA. So of course, Mr. de Meo of course was the
successor. So of course, there's a very good alignment between the German position, BMW and
ACEA. So that's why. Now, Oliver, over to you.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board `
Mr. Hegler, good morning. I think it's about a maximum climate impact. I think they are really
looking at one specific technology and fighting it too much, almost with ideological arguments. It's
simply about maximum climate efficiency or climate impact, similar to what the United States is
doing, as we just discussed. What is very clear, not taking into account market behavior and
infrastructure, you cannot pass such an exit because that would immediately lead to not achieving
the maximum climate impact. That's the thing. It's really not -- really not about defending a
particular attitude or a certain technology.
If we're looking at it today and if the development continues the way that it has, only counting on
one technology, it's going to be very expensive and the market won't go along with it. And in
European politics, that's not something that is taken into account, that it's the free decision of
millions of customer. They're trying to sort of regulate the behavior of these people. And I think in
2026, that's important to recognize. It's important to recognize that it's about free market and
end customers and private customers as well, right. It's not just like the energy infrastructure
where you can switch something off and then something else happens automatically. I think that's
going to come out in 2026, that at least market realities are what they are.
With any sort of requirements that you have, that's what we're about as well -- what's going to be
the outcome? I can't tell you. But at the moment, the interplay between raw material availability,
market behavior and the building up of infrastructure seems to be inconsistent. But you know this
position, that's nothing new. And I also think in '25 -- end of '25, the world will notice that it's not
that easy. So we're going, of course in with 25% CO2 reduction. So I think the world at the end of
next year is going to be a different one than what we're looking at today, because the pressure
then will be significant for the European automotive industry. But we are very positive that we will
be able to achieve this.
Luca de Meo's letter is a letter that I think is good, but the sender is the Head of Renault, not the
ACEA association. There is a coincidence, but that's just how it is. We agree on many things.
Where we are of a different opinion, which probably is not a surprise is regarding the overblown
potential risk of Chinese vehicle imports. We take a significantly more relaxed stance on that
because nobody can just come into a European market overnight, a market as large as Europe,
and just take it over. And of course, you also kind of have to embrace competition. Then, we will
simply embark into this competitive environment, if that's what it is, and also the clear focus type
that only one vehicle type, small cars will become dominant. Again, no surprise, we are of a
different opinion because of course, we want to cover all the markets. For other things like the
closer collaboration, for the review of the climate targets, all of those elements, of course, we
absolutely agree with and think those are correct. Maybe just one short addition. We are going to,
of course, see this letter as a good point of discussion in the automotive industry.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Next, Andreas Huss, Munchen Mercor [ph].
Q - Unidentified Participant
Here we go. Hello and good morning from Munich. From Munich to Munich.A - Unidentified Speaker
Good morning, Mr. Huss. We can hear and see you. Feel free to get started.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Fantastic. So many interesting topics have already been discussed. The ICE exit et cetera. So a
question on a more unpleasant thing. We saw that there were rather a lot of recalls in the last few
weeks with -- you know, it had to do with the coolers, there was also braking system issue with
Conti and then also, of course, the X3. I think there was also about 30,000 Europes -- the
30,000 cars in Europe that were affected. And is this something normal, or will this once again
burden the business next year as well? And maybe, just speaking of the defeat device, what is
the current update. As of June, there was supposed to be an update. Is that still coming? I think
BMW could also go into the revision.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Well, maybe I can just -- maybe I can just comment on the EGR air cooler exchange. Of course,
we're always trying to make sure that the customer are happy and of course, if there are any
unhappiness, or if there is any unhappiness, it is very important for us to recall these cars,
because, of course, customer satisfaction happiness is number one. Since 2018, we have
introduced extensive measures that have led to a significant reduction of these cases of leaking
EGR coolers. Furthermore, of course, together with another supplier, we have further optimized a
new EGR cooler generation. And that, of course, is now still in the execution phase. And we will
simply take some time to do this. But it's very important that we always inform all the customers
and they have been informed accordingly as well. So that's just ahead of time.
And now, I don't know in how far you want to give -- to get a general answer. Is that already
enough, Mr. Huss, you need to help me.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Yes, I just wanted to know if this is still at a normal scope, because there's always recalls. So was
this all in a normal scope or was it more than before?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Well, it's never normal, right, because recalls are always unpleasant, and we definitely don't love
that. So for all of these topics, we can only apologize to the customers and we're always trying to
tackle these things as quickly as possible. I think that's how I would answer it.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Right. And then the second part on the defeat devices is that, is there an update available?
A - Unidentified Speaker
We're currently in alignment with the KBA. So the ruling is not legally binding it. So we are currently
still in alignment with the courts.
Okay, fantastic. Thank you very much, Mr. Huss. Now, the next question is Regina Amclear [ph]
from (inaudible).
We always have a bit of a delay, says Mr. (inaudible).Q - Unidentified Participant
Yes. Can you hear me now?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes, we can hear you.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Unfortunately, you cannot see me. I do not have a camera. I'm sorry. Next time, I'll join you with a
camera.
A - Unidentified Speaker
All right, then your question, please.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Yes, that's about digitalization. Mr. Zipse, you've got a nice digitalization portfolio in the NEUE
KLASSE. Now, to what extent is that compatible with the new very strict EU data privacy
regulation? Are there any issues in that regard?
And then my second question. It's about the Bavarian plants. You just talked about the Irlbach-
Strabkirchen plant and the plants in Regensburg, Dingolfing and Leipzig are going to receive
supplies from there. But you did not mention Munich. Could it be that NEUE KLASSE will be
launched somewhat later except for Munich?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Well, thanks, Ms. Amclear. I just had to make some adjustments in terms of answers. I'd say,
digitalization is for Mr. Weber from our development department. And of course, then the
Bavarian plants, that's a question for our Head of Production, `Milan Nedeljkovic, Production. So, Mr. Weber,
about digitalization of the NEUE KLASSE.
A - `Frank Weber, Development `
Thanks, Ms. Amclear for that question. Now, as you probably will know, data privacy and
protecting personal data is the most important asset, which we also view this way at BMW. And
we do not use anything which does not guarantee that. That means we're also operating our own
cloud. So the personal data you're using in your car will always stay within the BMW world. And
thus the new digital world is absolute safe and secure in a BMW.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thanks. The Bavarian plants at NEUE KLASSE. Milan, please.
A - `Milan Nedeljkovic, Production `
Good morning, Ms. Amclear. Now, as you will certainly know, we will start the NEUE KLASSE in
Debrecen our new factory in Hungary. But then, we'll have a quick rollout into our global
production network. And the Munich plant especially, will be one of the first German plants where
we'll also have the start of production of NEUE KLASSE. And currently, we are also getting the
production equipment there and the buildings ready for assembling the NEUE KLASSE in a newthe existing assembly halls and buildings, which means we're using full flexibility of our production
system.
A - Unidentified Speaker
So much for the question from Regina Amclear. We continue with the next question, which is by
`Markus Fasse, Handelsblatt from Handelsblatt.
Q - `Markus Fasse, Handelsblatt
Good morning. I've got two questions, the first one for Mr. Weber, once again. Now I'd like to
know what the next steps will be in automated driving and the Level 3 function. You're introducing
it in the 7 Series at a speed of 60. Now, how quickly can you go up to 100 kilometers per hour?
And what's the roll-out for the NEUE KLASSE. When and where will be their C level 3? So that was
the first question.
Second question, maybe more for Mr. Zipse, because he said that BMW is a tech company now.
And I would like to know, Apple has decided to exit their car development. Now, do you feel
somewhat satisfied that this kind of a tech company quits that business because they've realized
how complicated it is to build a car. And what are the areas, the technological areas, which you
want to occupy in the next couple of years in order to be able to say in 10-years that BMW is a
tech company, which is also a leading one, in contrast to Apple?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Well, as it is a highly topical question, our CEO will start right away.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board `
Good morning, Mr. Fasse. Well, we have not just become a tech company right now, we've always
been a tech company. I just said that this still applies. We are a tech company and today probably
more than ever, because highly complex technologies have to be combined in a single product,
although these technologies are highly diverse. And this is a core skill of BMW, namely, bringing
together highly diverse technologies in a single product and making this look very easy going,
although it's so highly complex.
And if you look at the future, then it is very difficult to master this complex technology. And if
somebody four years ago thought that they could come up with an entirely different user
interface, which is very much different from what we've got traditionally, and if you now look at
the NEUE KLASSE, then you will wonder what could be a USP if you launch a new product there?
So let me once again emphasize we are not afraid of tech companies because we are one
ourselves.
And then there was the first part of the question, the status about Level 3 automated driving.
And I think that's a question for Mr. Weber.
A - `Frank Weber, Development `
Thanks, Mr. Fasse, for your question. Now, based upon what we are already doing quite
successfully today, namely Level 3 in the 7 Series, there's a hands-off highway function which we
introduced in the 5 Series last year, which I think is also benchmark in the industry. Now that
journey is going to continue systematically. So NEUE KLASSE will have a fully revised tech stack,
which we are developing together with Qualcomm and Valeo. And of course, rest assured that
Level 3 functions then will also be available at higher speeds or even Level 4 functions forparking, which means that the car will park automatically, even without having anybody sitting in
the car. So the journey continues from one generation to the next.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thanks, `Markus Fasse, Handelsblatt. Now we've got 20 minutes left for your questions, and we've already
received a couple of questions in writing, and there's one for Ms. Horstmeier.
Let me read this out. Well, skilled labor shortage is a very relevant issue these days. Do you still
find those employees at BMW that you need?
A - `Ilka Horstmeier, People and Real Estate, Labour Relations Director `
Yes, that's indeed a highly decisive question because as Mr. Mertl and Mr. Zipse already told you,
we want to continue our successful growth story. And that also means that this year we also want
to grow our workforce. And that means in Germany, we expect to hire up to 4,000 new
employees, which of course is also going to be driven by growth in our output in Germany. And
then, of course, we also want to invest in future technologies, such as drive technologies, but also
software engineering. Currently, we've got a good volume of applications, so we believe that we
can find the necessary skilled workers that we need. And the spots for traineeships in '24 have
already been fully filled. And apart from that, of course, we also transfer and reskill and upskill our
employees here at our Munich plant for example, for new technologies. So all in all, it is certain
that we benefit from our good image on the labor market and our reliability as an employer.
We've got attractive jobs, and attractive working environment, and also fair and appropriate
compensation.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, Ms. `Ilka Horstmeier, People and Real Estate, Labour Relations Director. We continue with the next question, which is by Wilfried Eckl-
Dorna from  News.
Q - `Wilfried Eckl-Dorna,  News `
I hope you can hear me. I've got a very simple question for you. What about pricing this year, Mr.
Zipse and colleagues? Can you maintain the price level or is there also a strong competition in
terms of prices, which worries you?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Now thank you very much. We had some difficulties hearing you, the sound quality was very poor.
You asked about the pricing strategy and competition for prices also in China and BEVs? Mr.
Goller?
A - `Jochen Goller, Customer, Brands, Sales `
Now, of course, in terms of pricing, it's always a regional question. In the last two years, we were
able to obtain the prices for our premium products as planned and in some cases, we also
increased them. Of course, you've got to have a look at the rate of inflation and the interest rates
and you also have to look at the pricing of the competitors' prices. And this year, we once again
expect that we will be able to apply an appropriate price increase depending on the respective
regions, but also depending on competitors.
A - Unidentified SpeakerThank you very much. That's been the question from  News from `Wilfried Eckl-Dorna,  News.
And the next one is `Lennart Wermke, Automobilwoche from Automobilwoche.
Q - `Lennart Wermke, Automobilwoche
Thank you very much. Now, recently you decided to build a gen 5's battery assembly factory and
Asia is a very promising growth region. So what could happen there in a few years strategically
speaking? What are the right cars for that region, will it be BEVs only will CKD assembly alone be
enough?
And the second question is, your business report says that all major BMW plants have seen an
increase in output. However, in Spartanburg, there has been a minus of 1.3% and I would like to
know what the reason for that was?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Now, we did have a bit of a sound problem there as well, but I think Mr. Nedeljkovic, can answer
that question.
A - `Milan Nedeljkovic, Production `
Well, thanks, Mr. Wermke, for that question. Let me start with your question about growth. Yes,
last year, we produced more than 2.6 million vehicles in the Group, which is an all-time high. And
accordingly, in most plants, we also have seen a record output. In the US specifically, now in the
year before last year, the X5 had also been localized out of Spartanburg towards China. And that
means we've got an additional production plant of the X5 in China now. But all in all, that did not
have any major impact on to capacities in China, namely only 1.3 decrease in Spartanburg,
although the X5 is now manufactured at two locations, which all in all still represents a strong
growth.
Now, when it comes to the Asian region, now we do have a footprint in several countries with
small CKD plants, also in China and in Thailand where we also have a localization of the PHEV
battery a few years ago. And now the next step is to have the gen 5 and all-electric model, which
means we're keeping a close eye on that market and the overall region.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much, `Lennart Wermke, Automobilwoche. We've got the next question from Manager Magazin and
that's Mr. `Henning Hinze, Manager Magazin.
Q - `Henning Hinze, Manager Magazin
Good morning. I've got two brief questions. The first one is about a statement made by Mr. Zipse.
He said, as of 2025 he expects a massive increase in BEV demand. Now, where will that demand
actually come from? Regionally speaking and also for what reasons do you think?
And then we've got a question for Mr. Goller. In various regions, you are going to introduce
respective new models before you launch. And you will first try to go through some learning
effects in Europe, especially in Germany, until 2026, and whether the change in the market
demand and the return of discount battles, whether this will have also an impact on a successor
model?
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board `Well, we start with our CEO. Good morning, Mr. Hinze. Now, you know that we always plan in the
long run, and of course we also look at every single technology also for the various regions. Now,
first of all, the BEV share today is already growing rapidly. Last year more than 70%, and this year
again we will see another double-digit growth rate. And then of course, on top of that, there is
the regulatory requirement, but that is applied in Europe only in 2025, next year minus 25% for
the fleet. And of course, that is going to have a massive impact also onto the entire competitive
segment. Now, looking at Europe alone, we will see a massive increase in Europe alone. And
that's not based on subsidies.
And the second part, of course, markets are also supply-driven, and I can only speak for
ourselves, late this year we will have 15 BEV models for all brands from the MINI to the Rolls-
Royce, where we see a major demand coming up. So that growth will be quite natural due to our
offerings and our respective policy that we have. And exactly in that very moment, when -- where
we expect that massive leap, that's exactly when we are going to launch the NEUE KLASSE with a
specific new product offering. So that's the combination of regulation, product offering and global
region. And within that combination, we believe that as of '25 we will see a massive increase in
demand for BEVs. And well, if the percentage increase is always the same, then in sheer
numbers, it's always going to increase massively. And that's why we believe that by 2030, half of
our products that we sell worldwide will be electric.
And the second part of that question was about the agency model, namely what is your
experience so far? And that's a question for `Jochen Goller, Customer, Brands, Sales. Jochen, please.
A - `Jochen Goller, Customer, Brands, Sales `
Good morning, Mr. Hinze. Now the agency model, now why are we introducing that new agency
model. We want to have an end-to-end customer experience between offline, online dealership
visit and we want to be able to offer customers the right model, even in a better way. And that's
what we ensure with this new model. And that's not related to demand volatility. We started in
January with MINI in Sweden and Poland. And then we will roll out that portfolio successively. And
in certain waves now the other markets will also switch to the new model.
And the focus is on Europe. So we're not talking about overseas, but Europe. And the first
experience has been very positive. I've been to those markets myself. I talked to dealers and also
the first customers. And they like this way of a consistent customer experience. Of course,
there's still a lot to be done, I mean, if you've got 30 markets that have to be switched over, but
the first customer feedback is positive, and that's why we will continue to roll this out for the MINI
brand in Europe.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much. That's been our colleague `Henning Hinze, Manager Magazin from Manager Magazin. And we
continue with the next question by Thomas Mannheim Bermann [ph] from the (inaudible).
Q - Unidentified Participant
Right. Hello, everyone. I have three short questions. Number one, can you imagine that in 2024
we have a year where we're not going to see any more ICE growth in BMW. You said overall slight
revenue growth, strong growth at BEV models and electric models in general. If we look at it on
the flip side of the coin, maybe ICEs won't grow anymore this year.
Second question, Mr. Zipse, I believe you spoke of a global market share of 3.3%, but you said,
electrically speaking, we are much higher. But you didn't really tell us what the electric share is.Could you please tell us that?
And the third question is 2024, you had slightly lower before tax earnings. So if we're looking at
the prior year level of 9.8%, is it a one-time slump? Is your plan that in 2025 the return is going
back up again? Looking forward to your answers.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Right, thank you very much. The first two questions, you know, internal combustion engine growth
or a lack thereof. And the global BEV share, that's going to be `Jochen Goller, Customer, Brands, Sales, and then the
margin, that's going to be `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer. Jochen, please.
A - `Jochen Goller, Customer, Brands, Sales `
Of course, at the moment, we can only give you a forecast for the full year. Now, we're
forecasting that the BEV share is going to grow very strongly and our combustion engine share
will stay overall stable. Of course, it depends on the region, And imagining there in the United
States, across the entire year, we're probably going to be seeing additional growth in the
combustion engine market. And the first two months, if we're looking at the sales numbers year-
to-date, globally speaking, our ICE volume has grown. So for the full year, we see this as definitely
stable. Probably slightly different developments in the different sales regions. But moving on to
the BEV share, if I know it, I think we're at about 4.1%, 4.2%, that's our BEV share of the global
market, whereas 3.3%, of course, across the overall market. So a significantly higher share of the
BEVs. And I think that also really just shows us the strength of the product portfolio.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Right. Fantastic. Thank you very much, Jochen. The second part of the question now goes into the
margin. One-time decline in 2024 and development in 2025. `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer, please.
A - `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer `
Good morning. With our auto EBIT margin, that is between 8% to 10% in the long run, I need to
tell you ahead of time, we feel really good with that. But what happens compared to -- in
comparison with 2023, it's of course, a normalization of the used car prices, and that's where
we're going to have less positive contributions than before. Besides that, we had a very balanced
volume mix and price share year-on-year. If that was a follow-up question, potentially. And also
looking at tailwinds, as we've said in the speech, if we have tailwinds of raw materials and
currency effects, we still see an offset of higher material cost that has been in effect since
especially the second half of 2023. And that's why, our margin range will continue to be 8% to
10% and will operate in such.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Fantastic. Thank you very much. Moving on to the last question. That's going to be Lutz Meyer
[ph] from Das Kapital.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Hello. Good morning.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Good morning, Mr. Meyer, we can see and hear you.Q - Unidentified Participant
Fantastic. Thank you very much for allowing me to be the last question.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes, but we save the best for last, so use your big chance.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Right. Thank you. Now, two quick questions on the NEUE KLASSE. Number one, the investments
which are very high, as you said, but you didn't really tell us exactly how high. But maybe you
could tell us a bit more about that, about how that breaks down? Why is that so expensive?
Where is that investment going? Of course you're switching production. Of course you have a
completely new digital control, of course you have the drivetrain. But how are these enormous
investments breaking down? Why are they so high? Question one.
Question two. On the actual unit numbers that you're expecting for the NEUE KLASSE, you have
explained that of course it has to ramp up to the maximum unit number. Once that has been
achieved, which share of your overall sales will the NEUE KLASSE have? Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
All right, I will hand this over to `Frank Weber, Development, both questions, and possibly Mr. Zipse is going to
add to that. But let's start with `Frank Weber, Development, NEUE KLASSE investment breakdown and so on and
so forth.
A - `Frank Weber, Development `
Right. Thank you very much for your question, Mr. Meyer. We've said it multiple times. This is the
largest investment of the company's history that we have here with the NEUE KLASSE. But I do
want to tell you as much, this does not only affect the derivatives of the NEUE KLASSE, this is an
investment in the company overall. Now what do I mean by that? We're taking this on board that
when the NEUE KLASSE comes, we're bringing all technologies to the absolute state of the art,
that's e-machines, batteries, the entire digital realm, the board network, driver assistance
systems, control units. So all of this, of course is fantastic. And for example, the control unit is
basically leapfrogging a generation.
Now, without giving you the exact numbers you can imagine just on the development side, what
we need here in order to have all domains across the board reworked and updated basically
simultaneously, while taking into account that you're not just going into the models of the NEUE
KLASSE, but they will be available to the entire product portfolio. And then, of course, on top of
all of this, the NEUE KLASSE was optimized as a product, and therefore, of course has also or is
also providing efficient production for all their products. And that's why we've decided to have
the NEUE KLASSE starting at Debrecen. And that's what we're currently earmarking the
production capacity that we need for the NEUE KLASSE. And of course also for the new batteries
that we need for the NEUE KLASSE, that will also have to be established close to the plant. And if
you do the math right, if you add all of this up, we're speaking of a significant share, but we
cannot give you the absolute numbers, of course.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Fantastic, thank you very much. These were the questions. This was the BMW Annual Conference.And maybe, just one quick note, at 12:30 our second Q&A round will start. This will be only quote-
unquote with `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board and `Walter Mertl, Chief Financial Officer. This will be our analyst call and investor call. That's
where my colleague Ritu Chandy will be the moderator.
And ladies and gentlemen, with that, thank you very much for your attention. It was great to have
you here. And of course, we also saw most of you, that was also fantastic. So with that being said,
nothing but the best. And see you soon at BMW. Goodbye.