Y 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to our Annual Conference. 2025 will be a
milestone year for the BMW Group in many respects, as we set the course today for our success
in the decades to come. Despite volatile global conditions, we remain firmly committed to growth
in the current financial year. And at the same time, we are bringing our largest future-focused
project, the NEUE KLASSE, to the roads. We have a clear plan. We remain sharply focused on
innovation and sustainable growth. In 2025, we expect sales figures to rise once again. And at the
same time, capital expenditure will decrease as planned. This will enable us to increase our free
cash flow.
And there are four reasons for our confidence. First, our strategy is robust and gives us a clear
path forward. We are setting the pace in key areas. Our technology open approach remains
successful and is gaining ever more attraction. Policymakers and competitors are pivoting in our
direction, which we continue to pursue systematically.
Second, the BMW Group is one of our industry's few true global players. Our extensive global
footprint creates opportunities. It makes us resilient, and it provides the flexibility we need to
respond effectively to external influences.
And third, with BMW, MINI, Rolls Royce, and BMW Motorrad, we have four strong brands, and all
of them are incredibly popular around the globe. Each has its own distinct identity and delivers
emotionally compelling products for different target groups.
And fourth, our NEUE KLASSE, no other manufacturer has a project as ambitious and
groundbreaking as ours about to enter production. I will come to this in the second part of mypresentation today.
Let's now start with the first topic, our strategic direction. Our technology open approach is
market orientated. It allows us to fully leverage the available potential across all markets and
regions. And we make no distinctions whether we are talking about combustion engines, plug-in
hybrids, all electric vehicles, or from 2028 onwards, a hydrogen-powered car. We consistently
implement design principles, innovation, and the latest technologies in all our vehicles. No one
masters this technological diversity better than we do. Numerous national and international
accolades confirm this. Our approach is also gaining increasing recognition in political circles and
even our competitors are pivoting towards our strategy. We have proven that technological
openness, growth, and CO2 reductions are very much compatible.
Let's take a look at 2024. We met our adjusted targets for the year. We delivered more than 2.45
million vehicles and achieved an EBIT margin of 6.3% in the automotive segment. Our vehicles
with highly efficient combustion engines remain in strong demand worldwide. At the same time,
battery electric vehicles continue to be our main growth driver. Several other manufacturers,
including some that only produce electric cars, saw a decline in sales. But we achieved growth
with our all-electric vehicles even in challenging market conditions.
In 2024, BEV sales once again climbed significantly year-on-year, increasing more than 13%. Fully
electric vehicles accounted for over 17% of total sales last year, and including plug-in hybrids,
nearly one in four vehicles sold was electrified. We are targeting further growth in e-mobility in
2025. We will hit two major milestones this year. We will reach the total of more than 3 million
electric vehicles and over 1.5 million BEVs sold since the launch of the BMW i3 and i8. Our
customers can choose among 15 BEVs across all our brands. One example is the new edition of
the BMW iX. The recently presented model update boasts an impressive electric range of over
700 kilometers in the WLTP cycle with significantly more drive power. That is BMW efficient
dynamics.
Our combination of electrified vehicles and highly efficient combustion engines also have a
positive impact on our climate footprint. In 2024, the BMW Group once again outperformed its
European CO2 fleet target by more than 30 grams. Based on our internal calculations, our fleet
emissions fell below 100 grams per kilometer in the WLTP cycle for the first time. We will continue
to ensure that our customers always have access to the latest technology across all drivetrains.
And the key to achieving this lies in our production network's high level of flexibility.
And that brings me to my second point. Our global footprint, the BMW Group is a true global
player. Very few automotive manufacturers have such a comprehensive presence across all
relevant economic regions as we do, be it in sales, research and development, production, or
supplier network. And this combination gives us a strategic advantage that sets us apart from the
competition in increasingly fragmented world.
We remain committed to expanding our local-for-local approach. We are constantly improving our
access to different market regions and strengthening our resilience, especially along our supply
chains. One example of this is our high-voltage battery assembly plants in the three major sales
regions, Europe, the Americas, and China. In total, five new assembly facilities for the next
generation of high-voltage batteries are being built near our production sites worldwide,
complete with a local supplier network. In this way, we are already creating the necessary
conditions today for successful growth in the future.
We are gradually adapting our production network to rising sales of electric vehicles. And late this
year, our new plant in Debrecen, Hungary, will become our first facility to exclusively produce all-electric vehicles. Our main plant in Munich will follow in 2027.
Our production follows the market and our product range aligns with demand. We build roughly
the same number of vehicles in our three key market regions of Europe, the United States, and
China as we sell there. This balanced distribution is another key differentiator for the BMW Group.
At the same time, Germany and the United States serve as key export hubs for us. In 2024, we
manufactured over 1 million vehicles at our plants in Germany. This represents about a quarter of
the country's total car production.
56% of these vehicles are then exported outside the European Union. I think this is an impressive
proof of the BMW Group's significant contribution to industrial value creation in Germany. In the
United States, one out of every two vehicles from our plant in Spartanburg, South Carolina, is
exported. Last year, we achieved an export value of over $10 billion. This once again makes the
BMW Group the largest automotive exporter in the United States by value. We benefit from an
integrated global economy, and that is why we continue to advocate for open markets and free
trade.
Moving on to my third point, the performance of our brands. The success of the BMW Group is
built on the global appeal and resonance of our four brands. At the same time, we know how to
fulfill the specific needs and preferences of our customers in different markets with our products.
Last year, our core BMW brand leveraged its strength to the full. In three out of four regions,
BMW grew sales and gained market share. This has enabled BMW to maintain its number one
position in the global premium segment.
BMW performed particularly well in Europe. Italy, Spain, France, and the United Kingdom led the
way, with all reporting double-digit growth rates. With a 6% increase, the brand significantly
outperformed the overall European market, which only grew by just over 1%.
In the United States market, we achieved record sales for the second consecutive year. And here,
too, the strength of our market-driven approach to drive trains is delivering its results. Thanks to
our steadily growing BEV portfolio, we sold more than 50,000 electric vehicles in the United
States for the first time. And with this momentum, we are optimistic about the year ahead as we
celebrate 50 years of BMW North America.
In our markets outside the main sales regions, we also posted growth in a declining environment
overall. In this region, we led the premium segment in total for the first time ever. And the main
growth drivers here included the South Korean, Australian, and Indian markets. China remains a
key market for the BMW Group. In 2024, we sold more than a quarter of all our vehicles there.
The market is highly dynamic and characterized by increased competitive pressure.
In this environment, BMW maintained nonetheless its position as number one in its segment with
a market share of 3%. This put us within our target range. In 2024, we delivered over 100,000
BEVs to customers in China for the very first time. This makes China our biggest single market for
electric vehicles, even though our sales performance there was damped last year by persistently
low consumer sentiment. The high-margin vehicles built by BMW M once again played an
important role in our market success in 2024. For the 13th consecutive year, M sales increased.
Nearly 1 in 10 BMWs sold carried the letter M. Demand for the sportiest BMW models has
continued to grow, especially in China.
2025 is the first year with a complete new MINI family available, and we will exploit this potential
further. There are a total of five unique models now to choose from, three of them BEVs. The
fully electric MINI models, with the MINI Cooper electric leading the way, are being particularly wellreceived with an increase of 24% year-on-year sales MINI BEVs also saw highly dynamic growth
last year. Nearly one in four MINIs is now powered by an electric heart.
In the ultra-luxury segment, Rolls-Royce continued to set the benchmark. At more than 5,700
units, Rolls-Royce sales remained high, and most notably, the all-electric Spectre exceeded
expectations in its first full year of sales. Every third Rolls-Royce sold now is fully electric.
BMW Motorrad also impressed in 2024, achieving a new all-time sales high of over 210,000 units.
BMW Motorrad remains the undisputed number one in the global premium motorcycle segment.
Ladies and gentlemen, all of this shows that the BMW Group is well positioned across all brands,
drive technologies, and segments to continue on its growth path. With our global approach, we
have the right answers to challenges worldwide. This has often enabled us to offset fluctuations
in demand in individual markets.
And now it's time for `Walter Mertl, Member of the Board of Management, Finance to present the Group financial statements for 2024 and look
ahead to our goals for 2025.
`Walter Mertl, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Thank you, Oliver. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. As Oliver emphasized, we continue to
follow our course and implement our long-term strategy. At the same time, we are focused on
our operational business to consistently deliver on what we say. The BMW Group proved this
once again in Q4 2024. We successfully reduced inventory impacted by the integrated braking
system or IBS. And we achieved a sequential improvement in retail sales and profit versus Q3.
For the full year, we achieved our revised guidance in all parameters. As anticipated, we reached
peak levels of R&D and capital expenditure in 2024, particularly to prepare for models of the
NEUE KLASSE. Starting this year, both the R&D and CapEx ratios will decrease meaningfully as we
start production of the NEUE KLASSE and lay the foundation for the long-term success of our
company with over 40 new and updated models by 2027. Through our global positioning and the
flexibility of our operations, we can adapt to the geopolitical landscape and short-term market
dynamics, proving our resilience.
Let's take a look at the financial figures for the full year. 2024 was a year of two halves. While the
first half year was in line with our original planning, sales performance in the second half of the
year was impacted by delivery stops in connection with IBS as well as the persistent subdued
demand in China. As expected, Q4 marked an improvement on the Q3 result. Group revenues
totaled EUR142.4 billion. The moderate decrease compared to 2023 was mainly driven by the
decline in sales volume and intense price competition in the Chinese market.
Earning before tax at Group level amounted to EUR11 billion, significantly under 2023, but as
expected in our adjusted guidance. This resulted in a Group EBITDA margin of 7.7% for the year.
If you look at the key financial results of the individual segments, Automotive delivered an EBIT of
EUR7.89 billion and EBIT margin of 6.3%. Motorrad hit an EBIT of EUR198 million, representing a
margin of 6.1%. Financial Services saw an EBT of EUR2.54 billion and a return on equity of 15.1%.
And finally, other entities generated EUR837 million in EBT while elimination amounted to a
negative EUR146 million.
So, let's take a look at the Automotive segment in detail. For the full year, BMW Group delivered
2.45 million BMW, MINI, and Rolls-Royce vehicles to customers worldwide. This represents a slight
decrease of 4% from the previous year, in line with our adjusted guidance. Market dynamics inChina remain weak, which impacted sales performance. However, the BMW brand achieved
growth in every other major region.
In Europe, order intake in Q4 improved month-by-month. In the US, we experienced a strong
recovery from IBS in Q4 with growth quarter-over-quarter of just over 50% and year-over-year of
8.9%. Worldwide, BMW Group sales performance in Q4 saw sequential improvement over Q3.
Global deliveries grew by nearly a third quarter-on-quarter, including double-digit growth coming
from the mid and upper segment together. All-electric vehicles remained a key growth driver for
us. BEV deliveries totaled over 426,000 units for the year, significantly above 2023 by 13.5%.
Overall, BEVs therefore made up 17.4% of total sales. Our plug-in hybrid vehicles also remained
very popular, with over 166,000 units sold in 2024. Electrified vehicles, meaning all-electric
vehicles and plug-in hybrids, made up nearly a quarter of total sales.
Revenue in the Automotive segment amounted to nearly EUR125 billion, a decrease of 5.6% from
2023. Earnings before interest and taxes reached EUR7.9 billion. This resulted in an EBIT margin of
6.3%, which was within our adjusted guidance corridor of 6% to 7% for the full year. Excluding the
EUR1.3 billion depreciation resulting from the purchase price allocation of BBA, the Automotive
EBIT margin came in at 7.4% for the year.
Looking to the operating result in detail. Compared to 2023, EBIT for full year 2024 saw a tailwind
of EUR1 billion from the net balance of currency and raw material positions. Year-on-year, the net
effect of volume, model mix, and pricing weighed on Automotive EBIT. The headwind resulted
partly from the volume decrease, particularly in China. Pricing headwinds, including the effects of
a highly competitive Chinese market and dealer compensation in China, amounted to more than
half of the overall decrease of EUR4.4 billion. The headwind of EUR1.4 billion from other cost
changes was driven by inflation in material costs and supply chain support.
The effect from warranty expenses was a tailwind year-on-year. Overall, lower additions to
warranty provisions for specific topics were necessary in every quarter throughout 2024
compared to the previous year. An exception was Q3 due to the impact of IBS. For the full year
2024, the P&L impact of quality issues trended in a positive direction year-on-year, as planned.
Our R&D activities and investments focused on our ongoing electrification and digitalization
strategy across the entire portfolio. As anticipated, R&D and capital expenditure reached peak
levels in 2024, both in absolute terms and in ratio. Group expenditure for research and
development for the full year reached EUR9.1 billion compared to EUR7.8 billion in 2023. The R&D
ratio, according to the German commercial code, was 6.4%, 1.4 percentage points more than in
2023.
Group capital expenditure totaled EUR9.1 billion and increased from EUR8.8 billion in 2023. This
resulted in a CapEx ratio of 6.4% compared to 5.7% in 2023. As we begin to roll out models of
the NEUE KLASSE, we will see a decline in R&D and CapEx. This means in both absolute and
relative terms, back towards our strategic corridors of between 4% to 5% for R&D and less than
5% for CapEx by 2027 at the latest.
Turning to free cash flow, as you know, we steer this on an annual basis. Starting with EBT,
delivering a full year result of EUR7.5 billion. Working capital contributed positively with EUR200
million to free cash flow. Whilst inventory levels had risen due to sales stops related to IBS in Q3,
we managed to successfully reduce stock by EUR5 billion in Q4. As a result, year-end inventory
reached nearly the same level as it was at the beginning of the year.For the full year, the net effect from capital expenditure and depreciation reduced free cash flow
by EUR3.3 billion. The development of provisions reduced free cash flow by EUR700 million. The
position other reflects several positive effects, including interest received. In line with our
adjusted guidance, free cash flow reached EUR4.9 billion in 2024. This is even after we invested
EUR18.2 billion, EUR9.1 billion in CapEx, and another EUR9.1 billion in R&D, paving the way for our
future and demonstrating our financial strength. This strength is underscored by our Automotive
net financial assets, which benefited from the strong development of free cash flow in the fourth
quarter. At year end, the Automotive NFA came in at almost EUR46 billion, which is around the
same level as the start of the year.
Moving on to the Financial Services segment. New business development in the segment
remained robust throughout the year. A total of almost 1.7 million new financing and leasing
contracts were concluded, a solid year-on-year increase of nearly 10%. Overall, new business
volume even increased significantly by 12.5% to EUR64.5 billion due to higher average financing
volume per vehicle. Penetration rates for lease and loan offerings rose by 4.4 percentage points,
reaching 42.6%. Without China, the penetration rate was over 50%, with growth in particular in
the US and the UK.
Segment earnings before tax amounted to EUR2.54 million and were therefore significantly lower
than the previous year, and this was mainly due to higher credit and residual value risk costs than
in 2023, but well within our expectations. We continue to see gains from the sale of off-lease
vehicles, yet at lower levels due to market dynamics. The credit loss ratio of 0.26% across the
entire credit portfolio was well within our expectations and below industry levels. Return on equity
for the full year reached 15.1%, within our adjusted guidance range of 15% to 18%.
Ladies and gentlemen, in our BMW Group report, you will note that we have voluntarily adopted
the full European Sustainability Reporting Standards for the first time as the framework for
reporting all sustainability-related disclosures in our combined non-financial statement. The BMW
Group only reports on sustainability topics that have been assessed as material according to
ESRS. However, this does not mean that topics which are assessed as not material are necessarily
less important.
We view sustainability holistically and as a competitive advantage. That is why we disclose our
sustainability performance to our investors and customers. You will note that the implementation
of ESRS requirements have contributed over 100 additional pages to our report. Due to the
company-specific materiality assessment, comparability between companies remains limited,
even within the same industry. Indeed, it can be questioned how much value the additional scope
and limited comparability offered to stakeholders. Accordingly, we welcome the proposed
regulatory changes in the draft of the so-called Omnibus package and look forward to the draft
updates and reduced scope of the ESRS.
Ultimately, we want added value for our stakeholders, meaning relevant and concise information.
It's not just about reporting and compliance. One important element of our stakeholder
orientation is our shareholder return strategy, which the BMW Group remains committed to. The
Board of Management and the Supervisory Board will propose a dividend of EUR4.30 per share
of common stock and EUR4.32 per share of preferred stock to the Annual General Meeting. This
results in a total dividend payout of EUR2.7 billion.
The proposed dividend for 2024 represents a payout ratio of 36.7%. This is within our long-term
strategic target range of 30% to 40% and notably higher than the payout ratio in 2023. On
January 2, we began the final tranche of our ongoing second share buyback program, which
should be completed by latest April 30. This will conclude the second program with EUR2 billionmore than half a year earlier than initially planned. At this point in time, we will have reduced a
total of 47 million shares in circulation since the start of the share buyback authorization in 2022.
This corresponds to over 7% reduction in share capital. At the upcoming AGM, the Board of
Management of BMW AG plans to propose an agenda item seeking a new five-year authorization
to acquire treasury shares amounting to up to 10% of share capital.
You will have noted that we have made a step change in our approach since 2021. Starting in
2022, we added share buybacks as an additional instrument alongside dividend payments. We
have also increasingly used the range of dividend payout corridor, and we increased the share of
automotive free cash flow distributed to the shareholders from the previous year's levels to
almost 100% this year.
So, let's move to the outlook for 2025. Looking to the market development, due to stabilizing
inflation and declining interest rates in many countries, we expect to see a rise in demand. So
how will the BMW Group's sales performance develop this year? Given the robust economic
situation, we anticipate a solid market development in the US. In Europe, we do expect growth
driven by electrified vehicles. The market dynamics in China, however, will remain challenging. For
the full year, revenues per vehicle in the Automotive segment are expected to be in the same
range as 2024.
Our guidance reflects the current status of our planning, including all the tariffs increases in force
as of March 12, 2025. So what do we expect for our key performance indicators in 2025? Let me
focus on selected guidance parameters. In the Automotive segment, we are forecasting a slight
increase in deliveries of BMW, MINI, and Rolls-Royce vehicles. In terms of profitability, the total
impact of the tariff increases in place as of March 12 amounts to approximately 1 percentage point
on the auto EBIT margin, and as a result, the EBIT margin is now expected between 5% to 7%.
Consequently, return on capital employed in the Automotive segment should be within a range
of 9% to 13%.
In the Financial Services segment, we anticipate a return on equity of 13% to 16%. The Group's
pre-tax profit is expected to remain at the previous year's level. Starting January 1, 2025, we have
adjusted the outlook range for Group EBT guidance and the existing bandwidth was just too
narrow to reflect the underlying movements in the segments. For details, please refer to the
glossary of the BMW Group report.
The full outlook for 2025 for all key performance indicators is also available in the BMW Group
Report. For the full year 2025, we expect a free cash flow in the Automotive segment of over
EUR5 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, the BMW Group remains fully focused on achieving our short-
term results without compromising our long-term strategic objectives. We remain committed to
our long-term target corridor of 8% to 10% EBIT margin in the Automotive segment. To that end,
we are constantly enhancing our operational business to ensure we achieve our strategic
priorities and optimize our returns. So, after the peak in 2024, we not only expect to see a
turnaround in R&D expenditure and CapEx in 2025, but also a turnaround in operational cost. And
here I mean a cost decrease in nominal terms, covering the effects of inflation. This will become
visible over the course of the year.
At the BMW Group, strong brands and emotional products have long built the foundation of our
success as the technological boost from the NEUE KLASSE. Across the entire portfolio, we look
forward to seeing the benefits from our investments start hitting the road later this year.
`Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `Ladies and gentlemen, growth and innovation. These are two of the main topics we will be
focusing on this year. At the same time, we stand on the threshold of a new era. Late this year,
we will launch our NEUE KLASSE, a project that is unprecedented in both form and significance in
the history of the BMW Group. With the NEUE KLASSE, we will be turning the mobility of the future
into reality. Driving dynamics, drivetrain, battery technology, operating concept, digitalization,
including AI, we have refined each of these aspects and in the case of design, even skipped a
generation. In this way, we are redefining not only the BMW brand but also the future of individual
mobility.
Standing here next to me is the BMW vision NEUE KLASSE X, the serious version of this vehicle will
kick off the NEUE KLASSE. Production will ramp up at our new plant in Debrecen late this year and
after that the rollout will continue in rapid succession, including a sporty sedan at the core of the
BMW brand in 2026. We are deliberately starting out in high-volume segments. We want our
innovations to have a broad impact, not just in niche segments.
Between now and 2027, we will release more than 40 new or updated BMW models onto the
market, from electric to plug-in hybrid to vehicles with combustion engines. Each of them will have
the DNA of the NEUE KLASSE. The NEUE KLASSE is BMW, and BMW is the NEUE KLASSE. The
NEUE KLASSE is more than just a single vehicle. It marks the beginning of a completely new
generation and introduces our technology boosters for the entire brand. Regardless of the drive
technology, all future BMW models will benefit from the technologies of the NEUE KLASSE and, of
course, also from the new design language.
Allow me to share a few examples of our groundbreaking advances in technology. With a BMW
Panoramic iDrive, we are reimagining our typical BMW driver orientation. The all-new BMW
Panoramic vision is the centerpiece, and this newly developed head-up display projects contents
across the full width of the windscreen. Seamless integration of various display and operating
elements enables a completely new level of intuitive interaction.
From the launch of the very first model of the NEUE KLASSE, all future BMW models will come
with BMW Panoramic iDrive. The sixth generation of our BMW eDrive technology will make e-
mobility even more appealing to our customers. The new BMW round cells promise 20% higher
energy density, 30% faster charging, and at least 30% more range, in certain models even more
and within just 10 minutes, enough energy for another 300 kilometers can be recharged.
For the first time, the Gen 6 high-voltage batteries also feature the latest 800-volt technology
and enable bidirectional charging and compared to the current fifth generation, we have reduced
the cost of the new eDrive system by 40% to 50% on a comparable electric range basis. The
electronics architecture has also been completely newly redesigned. Going forward, its four high-
performance computers will control key customer functionalities, for example, driving dynamics,
automated driving, and infotainment. These superbrains deliver more than 20 times the in-vehicle
computing power than current systems. This makes our models future-proof for software and
functional updates as well as new AI features.
We've also greatly simplified the electrical system, dividing it into four zones with intelligent
control. 600 meters less wiring, a 30% reduction in weight, and a 20% increase in energy
efficiency are just some of the few improvements we will achieve with this. And, of course, we are
also harnessing technical opportunities to take driving dynamics to a whole new level.
The BMW Vision Driving Experience showcases the potential of the technologies introduced in
the NEUE KLASSE. We are pushing driving dynamics to its physical limits. This highly emotional
driving machine will thrill more than just BMW fans. The VDX is the most powerful developmentprototype BMW has ever built, and we are using it to test our Heart of Joy, one of the four super
brains in the NEUE KLASSE.
We developed the software for the driving dynamics control system entirely in-house. This will be
used in all future electric BMW models, setting completely new standards for dynamic
performance and efficiency at the same time. It is hard to put it into words exactly how it feels
behind the wheel. You simply have to experience it.
(Video Presentation)
Well, I guess you can't fake that kind of enthusiasm. Our board of management already had the
chance to drive the serious version of the NEUE KLASSE. And let me tell you, we were all equally
excited about the driving experience, but not just in terms of pushing the physical limits. Most
importantly, we were deeply impressed by the added value our technologies create for our
customers in everyday situations. This is truly the next level of sheer driving pleasure.
Ladies and gentlemen, we first announced the NEUE KLASSE at our annual conference back in
2021. You remember, today, just four years later, we are entering the final stretch. Standing next
to me is one of the prototype vehicles we have been producing in Debrecen since late last year.
What is still hidden under camouflage foil here will be unveiled at the IAA Mobility in Munich in
early September. There, we will present the production model that will be available to our
customers next year.
I can already reveal one key detail to you today. This BMW will be released onto the market as
the BMW iX3. This is how we continue the success story of the first all-electric BMW X model that
has won over BMW fans worldwide since 2020. Testing of the new BMW iX3 is in full swing.
(Video Presentation) These impressions show that the next BMW iX3 is a typical X model and a
BMW through and through. As I'm sure you saw at the end of the film, the final phase of
development for the sporty sedan, the second NEUE KLASSE vehicle, is also progressing rapidly.
Ladies and gentlemen, what has always set the BMW Group apart is that we keep our sights set
on operational performance in the here and now. At the same time, we lay the foundation for our
long-term future success. We will continue to consistently pursue our BMW path with foresight,
customer focus, self-confidence, and in the knowledge of our strength. We are ready more than
ever.
Thank you very much.
`Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
So, ladies and gentlemen, now it is your turn. At 9 am, we will start with our first Q&A session for
journalists, which will be held in German. An English translation will be offered through the
streaming site, and all members of the board of management will be available for your questions.
The second Q&A for investors and analysts in English will begin at 11:00 am. For this session,
`Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management and `Walter Mertl, Member of the Board of Management, Finance will take your questions.
Now, we are looking forward to having you in our Q&A sessions shortly. Feel free to video call so
that we can see you here in the room. We would appreciate if you already start dialing in. We will
now get the studio ready and see you again at 9 am. Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, welcome back. I would now like to introduce to you the
members of our Board of Management. And I will start on my right, `Milan Nedeljkovic, Member of the Board of Management, Production, Production.
Next to him, `Ilka Horstmeier, Ilka Horstmeier, People and Real Estate. Then `Walter Mertl, Member of the Board of Management, Finance, responsible for Finance.To my left, our chairman, `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management. Directly next to him, `Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management, Development, Member of the Board of
Management for Development. Then we have `Jochen Goller, Member of the Board of Management, Customer, Brands, Sales, responsible for Customer, Brands
and Sales. And next to him, `Joachim Post, Member of the Board of Management, Purchasing and Supplier Network, Purchasing and Supplier Network.
We will, of course, hear your questions here in the room. Of course, we're also happy to have you
join us via video broadcast, please use the Raise Hand feature if you have a question. Please also
note that your video is going to be visible on the big screen behind us until your question has
been successfully answered. Once again, this year, we have participants from all over the world
joining us today, so please do understand if there are some small technical delays, possibly.
Please also note that the Q&A is going to be taking place in German. Of course, we offer a
simultaneous interpretation into English, so you're also welcome to ask your questions in English.
Our Board Members will then answer in German, and again, you will receive the simultaneous
interpretation of the answer. Now that's it with my introduction. However, before we jump into the
first question, I would like to hand over to Mr. Zipse as he would like to comment on the changes
in the board of management which we announced yesterday.
Oliver, over to you.
`Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The announced change that we had approved by the
Supervisory Board yesterday is something that, of course, `Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management, Development is affected by, and I would
like to thank him very much. It was an excellent process and a very trusting process, so I would like
to thank him very much for that.
`Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management, Development and his entire development team for over four years now have worked on the NEUE
KLASSE very diligently. And, of course, the series production is now ready for showtime. And
already today, we know that this is a quantum leap in BMW's technical development. Such an
extensive program that impacts all technology clusters is something that that today's competition
doesn't have. Now, the car is fully developed. That is why, of course, the timing of this change for
you, dear Frank, is quite perfect. And I'm really looking forward to the remaining weeks with you
on the board. And, of course, I'm really looking forward to the collaboration with `Joachim Post, Member of the Board of Management, Purchasing and Supplier Network as
your successor, and of course also with Nicolai Martin as the new Board Member for Purchasing.
But thank you again, `Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management, Development.
`Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you, Oliver. Frank.
`Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management, Development `
Thank you very much, Max. Now, just a quick comment on my side. I've been in the automotive
business for 35 years, 14 of which here at BMW. And I believe I can say that it was always a
privilege and a joy to take on these positions of responsibility because I was fortunate enough to
take my passion for cars, my passion for technology, my passion for innovation, and really live it.
And I can also tell you that the absolute pinnacle of my professional career is the NEUE KLASSE.
And then at the same time, it is also BMW's biggest project ever. Now, immediately after I joined
the board in 2020, we decided together the way that we're sitting up here to tackle the NEUE
KLASSE and with that, of course, develop a completely new and groundbreaking toolkit. And with
that gen -- a range something that is going to impact a whole new model generation, fully new
technologies, a completely new aesthetic, and that for the entire product portfolio.Now, of course, we started with a blank sheet of paper. And I can tell you today that this future
project, the NEUE KLASSE, is in its home stretch. And again, this impacts BMW's entire future
journey. The pre-series vehicles are finalizing the testing. All in all, we did 1.5 million testing
kilometers, and in just a few months we're going to unveil the series version of the NEUE KLASSE
to the global public.
With that, of course, we connect to the fact that now is the right time to clarify my succession.
Now, as we always do this at BMW, we want to set the right tracks for BMW 2030 early. And that's
why I mentioned this to the Supervisory and the Board of Management to clarify my succession
early on. And we've had this final answer since yesterday. And I'm very happy to have my
esteemed colleague `Joachim Post, Member of the Board of Management, Purchasing and Supplier Network, a real connoisseur of the e-division, and have him be my
successor in my position.
Questions And Answers
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much, `Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management, Development. Right. And this will bring us to the Q&A session. The first
question is from `Christina Amann, Journalist, Reuters from Reuters. Ms. Amann, over to you.
Q - `Christina Amann, Journalist, Reuters
Good morning, Mr. Schoeberl. Good morning, Mr. Zipse. Good morning, Mr. Mertl. I have a few
questions. In your forecast, you mentioned that the tariffs are included with 1%, but only the tariffs
that are in effect until two days ago. Now, of course, there's also a few other tariffs that are
looming on the horizon, especially, of course, tariffs between the EU and the United States. Now,
on the one hand, what would be the impact? What would be problematic? Higher tariffs in the US
for EU imports or the other way around? And can you already give us a rough idea of what it
could mean for BMW if these tariffs materialize the way that they are currently saying, 25% for
European cars?
The second thing, the IBS break topic was a big topic in the second half of last year. Is this topic
fully finished, or is there going to be an impact in the ongoing year?
And the third question is on the China business. What are the impacts there? It didn't really go
super well. When are you seeing any potential improvement? Thank you very much.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Amann, when it comes to tariffs, I would like to break this answer up. First, Mr. Zipse could deliver
a general comment on tariffs, and then Mr. Mertl. Oliver, please.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Good morning, Ms. Amann. Maybe just generically on tariffs. Free trade is the essence of a global
business model. In today's interconnected world, especially of course on the technological side of
things, just think of the long supply chains for raw materials, the world is inextricably linked with
one another, even though the final products may or may not be produced locally. So tariffs, tariff
discussions, trade wars harm everyone. Now we do hope that soon everyone will notice that
there's no winners in such a situation. Now, we have taken a rather conservative approach and
created these provisions amounting to around about EUR1 billion. So, again, it's rather
conservative. But we also assume that all the tariffs that we have today won't remain until the very
end of the year.A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much, Oliver. Now, the second part on tariffs. `Walter Mertl, Member of the Board of Management, Finance. And again, IBS is going
to be taken care by Mr. Post. And then China, `Jochen Goller, Member of the Board of Management, Customer, Brands, Sales. Walter?
A - `Walter Mertl, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Yes, we dealt intensively with your question on the tariffs and the changing landscape. You know
according to our forecast that we have included everything as of March 12, that's the best that we
can do. This is, of course, applicable. Of course, no one knows how long these tariffs will be
taking place or will be in effect and how they will change to the positive or negative. And the 1
percentage point EBIT compared to the previous year would suggest that the tariffs stay in place
until the end of the year.
Ms. Amann, you also asked about potential additional tariff increases. Now let me just -- let me
say the following. If instead of 2.5 percentage points, all of a sudden, we have 10 percentage
points as import tariffs as of today, in effect, as of today, we would probably speak of another
roughly 0.5 percentage point if this were to stick around until the end of the year. But again, we
don't speculate about these tariffs. We keep a keen eye on it, we evaluate them. We have
mitigation measures, and I think that's exactly how we should be doing it. But you have the
forecast, including the 1% and that's all the information we have at the moment.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Right. Moving on to the brake system topic, whether it's fully finished or whether there's any
other impacts, `Joachim Post, Member of the Board of Management, Purchasing and Supplier Network.
A - `Joachim Post, Member of the Board of Management, Purchasing and Supplier Network `
Ms. Amann, thank you very much for your question. Together with the supplier, BMW has taken
effective hardware and software measures, which have been made available for quite a while for
all the customer vehicles impacted. The technical action is carried out with the respective
authorities according to our plan in the individual markets. Regarding the impact in 2025, I can tell
you that, at the moment, we don't have any delivery stops because of the brakes, and therefore,
we can also operate our sales and trade in retail operation properly.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Next question was on the China business and the impact of that in 2025, I would like to ask
`Jochen Goller, Member of the Board of Management, Customer, Brands, Sales to answer that.
A - `Jochen Goller, Member of the Board of Management, Customer, Brands, Sales `
Good morning, Ms. Amann. Thank you for your question. The advantages, of course, of a globally
acting company that we can balance these regional volatilities. We grew a lot in Europe. We also
really proved ourselves in America and rest of world. And therefore we're able to compensate
for several topics. I think in China, I don't really need to explain the market environment. It's about
consumer confidence, it's about structural topics. But we remain optimistic. We continue to invest
in China.
We have expanded our R&D footprint, and we are currently working on several measures with
the team, including restructuring of our dealership network there. And we're going to be
launching 10 new models in China, including the ramp up of our X3 long wheelbase, which is, ofwe'll absolutely be able to stabilize the China business and then, looking at the NEUE KLASSE,
actually get it back to a growth path.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much, Ms. Amann. The next question is from `Markus Fasse, Journalist, Handelsblatt, Handelsblatt.
Q - `Markus Fasse, Journalist, Handelsblatt
Good morning. I would like to continue talking about China because you are impressively stable in
all of the markets. However, in China, you're just as under pressure as the competition. And that's
why I would like to take a closer look at that. What has changed on a structural level? You're
speaking of structural changes and also muted demand. One doesn't primarily have anything to
do with the other, correct? So maybe you can give us an idea of the potential structural changes.
And why do Western brands, and you as well, struggle so much with the Chinese competition?
Maybe you can take us on that journey as well.
And also, what are your answers to that challenge? You're speaking of the restructuring of the
dealership network. Are you closing locations? What are you doing? What was the plan? And will
the NEUE KLASSE be enough as a platform in China? Or would you possibly also have to consider
other pathways? Speaking of Audi, they are collaborating with a Chinese partner. Is that an option
that you would also consider or would have to consider even. And then when will we see growth
in our sales or in your sales in China?
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much, Mr. Fasse. I think this could be a long presentation on China by Jochen
Goller. So we'll start with `Jochen Goller, Member of the Board of Management, Customer, Brands, Sales and then maybe `Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management, Development.
A - `Jochen Goller, Member of the Board of Management, Customer, Brands, Sales `
Right. Like Mr. Schoeberl said, I could have a rather long presentation, but I'll try to focus on the
core topics. For one, the fact that in China the Chinese manufacturers are growing is nothing
unusual. If you look at Europe and America, of course, even in those markets, the local and
regional manufacturers are dominating those respective markets. So the growth of the Chinese
manufacturers is nothing surprising to us.
On the flip side, it's a market with 25 million units sold. And we also mustn't forget that in China
we have a market share of 3%. Everybody's always looking at the relative sales that have gone
down, but it is by far our largest market, and we also have 3%. We are the number one in the
premium segment. So I think you have to put it in perspective and see it in relative terms,
structurally.
What do I see with this? Of course, we see the consolidation of a dealership network, which is
good, by the way, and it also has nothing to do with the BMW brand. It's just a general thing,
number one. Number two, of course, the market is -- in China is also responding to the new
energy vehicle, so the xEV battery electric regs, and also plug-in hybrids. And therefore, we are
very optimistic that both with the cars that we are now launching on the market as well as with the
NEUE KLASSE, we are going to hit that nail on the head and really tap into these market
segments. And we assume that this year, together with the Chinese team, we are going to be
able to consolidate our performance.
And like I said, this year, we're going to be introducing 10 new models in 2026 and 2027. All in all,Chinese market. And that's why we are very optimistic that on the one hand we can rely on our
strong performance in the ICE market, which you mustn't forget. So we're expecting that we can
continue this and expand our position in NEV, or xEVs as we call it in Europe. And then that will
bring us back into a growth trajectory as well.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Right. There was another question on the dealership sites. Jochen?
A - `Jochen Goller, Member of the Board of Management, Customer, Brands, Sales `
Right. Our network strategies and the dealership strategies, we're not discussing those in public,
of course. I think there's a healthy consolidation, all in all, on the dealership side across the
industry. And I think this would lead to the fact that we have stronger groups being created in the
midterm, and I think it's going to be good for the industry.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much, Jochen. Then we heard something on the Neue Klasse as a platform or
potential other pathways for our technology. `Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management, Development.
A - `Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management, Development `
Right. Thank you very much for your question. I would have answered the question in a way that
the Neue Klasse represents a technological quantum leap across the board. It's about the
drivetrain, the digital architecture, driver assistance systems. And that's why we also don't believe
it is necessary to look for an OEM partnership because we believe that we are fully competitive
with what we will offer in China.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much, Mr. Fasse from Handelsblatt. And the next question comes by Wilfried Eckl-
Dorna by .
Q - `Wilfried Eckl-Dorna, Analyst,  `
Good morning, everybody. I've got two brief questions. On the one hand, again, about tariffs.
Now, in Mexico, in your factory, you do not comply with the USMCA requirements, which means
you've got to pay higher tariffs already out of Mexico. Now, my question is, do you have any ideas
to cushion off these tariff effect, which are related to USMCA, which means to obtain or achieve
that USMCA compliance and how much would that cost?
And the second question which I have is about the China business and also your sales
expectations. Many OEMs and several competitors of yours also think about reducing their
workforce, especially in China, where the market is not doing so well. Is this also an option for
BMW, which you're thinking about so to kind of shrink or even close factories?
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much, Mr. Eckl-Dorna. Now, Mexico and USMCA that's something for Mr.
Nedeljkovic, our Head of Production.
A - `Milan Nedeljkovic, Member of the Board of Management, Production `Thank you very much, Mr. Eckl-Dorna, for that question. Now, as you know, our global value add is
distributed across the global regions according to the markets and their sizes. So we've got a
fairly strong footprint also in the American market and our plant in Mexico, of course, ships
vehicles through, yes, but also to other markets. And within our production network, we've got a
high level of flexibility and the ability to exchange volumes and also change the mix. And that's
why we now will also use our production network to mitigate potential tariffs, which are going to --
which we are going to face in order to try to compensate for them as much as we can. Now,
regarding USMCA, looking forward, we also see an increasing potential for localization, which we
are going to analyze very thoroughly and then decide what we want to do.
Now, the second question of -- your question, Mr. Eckl-Dorna, was to reduce the workforce or
reduce the size of the factories. And maybe that's a combination of Mr. Horsemeister and Mr.
Nedelkovic. Well, first of all, thank you very much for this important question, Mr. Eckl-Dorna, let
me give you nevertheless somewhat more general answer, because that's so important in these
days. Now, for everything that we are facing in the future, we need a highly motivated team that
is willing to work hard and that we need to find a good balance in our HR policy between being an
attractive employer on the one hand where BMW is really one of the leading companies. And of
course, we also need strong performance of the employees and we need a resilience in our
personnel structures.
And here the question is, do we have the right employees at the right place, at the right time,
with the right skills? And I can tell you in the last couple of years, we qualified and retrained a
large number of our staff. You know that we invest more than EUR100 million in training and
reskilling our employees. And therefore, we feel well prepared for the task we are facing this
year. And that's why this year our workforce level will be on the same level as in the previous year
according to our expectations. And then last year, together with our negotiating partner in
collective agreements, we reached an agreement on the benefits -- with the fringe benefits
which we pay in addition to the elective agreement.
We compared this to our peers and made some adjustments. Profit sharing, jubilee bonus
announced for Christmas bonus were modified to a certain extent then and these changes will
become effective -- fully effective this year. And then, of course, what's most important, last but
not least as well is flexibility and the ability to respond quickly. And the genetic code of our
production network already includes flexibility and ability to respond quickly. And that also
manifests itself in a large number of working time models and also working time accounts, which
we use intensely if there are changes in the production volume.
And of course, we also use flexible staff, for example, to deal with specific peaks, for example,
seasonal peaks. So we feel well prepared to be able to respond to these changes.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Milan, you want to add anything to the factory structure in China?
A - `Milan Nedeljkovic, Member of the Board of Management, Production `
Mr. Eckl-Dorna, Ms. Horstmeier already indicated very clearly that our key strategy is based upon a
flexible production network. And flexibility means technological flexibility, but also flexibility in
terms of capacity. And that's why we also have flexibility modules in terms of workforce at all of
our locations, which allow us to breathe in accordance with the volume of demand. And that's why
no workforce restructuring plans have been developed for China. Of course, we do somewhat
shift the workforce between individual factories depending on their capacity utilization. And we'veA - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Then we've got the next question by `Daniel Zwick, Analyst, Welt from Die Welt.
Q - `Daniel Zwick, Analyst, Welt `
Hello and good morning from Berlin. Hope you can hear me.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Yes, we can hear you, Mr. Zwick. Go ahead. And we can also see you by the way.
Q - `Daniel Zwick, Analyst, Welt `
Hello. I've got questions about the political environment in Germany and in the EU. On the one
hand, on the EU level, now it seems that for the CO2 targets this year, there will be a longer
period of transition, which is good for your competitors, but not even really necessary for you. So
what's your view on this and which expectations do you have regarding the ban on ICEs 2035,
which is going to be reviewed now? So what would be your expectation on this on the level of the
European Union?
And then secondly in Berlin now, a new German government is being formed and we do have
some first indications from their negotiations that there's going to be a better bonus again and
that the commuter bonus is going to increase as well. Do you think that's going into the right
direction?
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
I'd like to ask our CEO, `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management, to answer both questions.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Well, good morning, Mr. Zwick. You're quite right. There's an intense discussion in Brussels about
the CO2 regulation in 35, 30 and 35. Now, one thing must be very clear. The introduction phase
for the CO2 target achievement that has been extended by 2027 does not mean that it's going
to be easier. It's like a banking system. If you don't achieve it in the first year, you can compensate
for the next two years. But all in all, you still have to achieve that overall target. And that's why we
at BMW are quite confident no matter what happens, whether it's going to be changed or not,
we will be able to achieve it. Nevertheless, it is not in our interest to see an influence on markets
stemming from regulations, which would then result in a reg race where in the 11th hour then
some electric vehicles are pushed into the market. So that's why we are very much in favor of this
transitional agreement. But that's not going to make it easier for all parties involved.
And then your second question, what's going to happen in 2030 and 2035? Well, the easy
exercise would be '25 to '27, because that's only 25% stretch in CO2 target achievement in the
fleet. In 2030, it's already going to be 50%. And the markets in Europe, they are not that easy,
although at the moment we are growing with our best share in Europe. You know our position on
2035, namely that technology openness is the only means to make sure that sustainability, CO2
target achievement in markets, and prosperity to achieve all of this at the same time. And for that
reason, we are quite confident by now that the review that will now take place earlier namely in
2025, now we welcome that very much to get a path for 2030 and 2035, which takes
sustainability into account, but also make sure that the industry can operate in a sound
environment.If that does not happen, then we must expect this industry to be reduced by 50% in the next 10
years. Your next question is about BEV incentives and bonuses. Now, we are against that kind of
an incentive because once you've introduced it, you quickly have to think about how you can
remove it again. So that leads to a distortion in the market because by its sheer design, it has to
be removed at some point again and that's something we are not in favor of. Now, the commuter
bonus, which has a structural effect, now that however we feel moves into the right direction in
addition to the subsidies for the charging infrastructure.
Q - `Daniel Zwick, Analyst, Welt `
Thank you very much.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Now we've got Christoph Ruhmeyer [ph] from DPA with the next question.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Good morning. Now, I'd like to bring the focus back onto the local scenery. I apologize. Now, the
forecast that your workforce level is going to remain on the same level. Now does this also apply
to Germany? And in your forecast for the US, you're expecting a sound and robust economic
development. Now, they're the first experts, however, who say that the back and forth that is
currently happening there might also kind of erode consumer confidence and massively impact
economic development. How high is that risk in your view?
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much, Mr. Ruhmeyer. Well, that's not just local. I mean, the German market is for
us just as important as all the others in the world. So first workforce forecast for Germany that's a
question for `Ilka Horstmeier, Ilka Horstmeier and then secondly, US Robust development that's for `Jochen Goller, Member of the Board of Management, Customer, Brands, Sales.
A - `Ilka Horstmeier, Ilka Horstmeier `
Now, the simple answer is yes, this also applies to Germany. But let me once again emphasize at
this point that within BMW AG and especially in Germany, we have consistently started
restructuring our workforce. We also reskilled people and we bank very much on training in the
future as well. And this year once again 12,000 apprentices will start their apprenticeship with
BMW on September 1. And that's a very important pillar, which we invest in. And especially here in
Munich where major modification is progressing. And here we need qualified and highly
motivated employees in order to face exactly these challenges.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thanks, Ilka. And now the question on the US Mr. Zipse has been to the US recently and we had a
good impression of the US, but `Jochen Goller, Member of the Board of Management, Customer, Brands, Sales can certainly elaborate on this a bit further.
A - `Jochen Goller, Member of the Board of Management, Customer, Brands, Sales `
Yes, happy to do so. Now, first of all, the US business, we performed very well there also last year
and this shows that our model policy is well received there. You know that our biggest plant
worldwide is in Spartanburg with a large footprint and our standing in that market is extremely
good, which we also see in our sales numbers. We grew in terms of sales last year. We had a
good start into the year and we now will ramp up the new X3. Yes, of course, we also read the
newspapers, but I can tell you order intake, dealer confidence, all of these are very positivecriteria and that's why we expect a robust demand. And with our model portfolio, of course, we
want to benefit from this in an above average manner.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
All right. Thank you very much. The next question is by an English colleague from Wall Street
Journal, `Stephen Wilmot, Analyst, Wall Street Journal. Stephen, please.
Q - `Stephen Wilmot, Analyst, Wall Street Journal
Hello there. I just wanted to get a couple of clarifications relating to some of your comments on
tariffs. Firstly, you've already spoken a little about the possibility for USMCA compliance. I think
your board member for production said there was a potential for localization that you were
looking into. I just wanted to understand exactly what you're referring to. Is that the localization of
drive trains to meet local content requirement or further localization of final assembly? Can you
just clarify that?
Secondly, when you talk about the 1 percentage point hit to your automotive operating margin
from the tariffs in place as of this week, are you assuming that the 25% tariffs on Mexican
production continue beyond this month? Are you assuming that, that lasts the whole of the year,
for example, even though the arrangements are likely to change in April? I just wanted to
understand how that kind of guidance is formulated.
And thirdly, a more general question. The 3 series which is obviously made in Mexico among
other places, it was historically a really key product for you in the US and remains a key product
for you globally. It's diminished in popularity in recent years. Is that because of the SUV trend in
the US or is there something else going on? Perhaps you could just speak about the 3 series as a
kind of icon, I guess, in the US and globally.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thanks, Stephen. Now, just for the sequence, USMCA that's for `Milan Nedeljkovic, Member of the Board of Management, Production. And then we'll
talk about tariffs once again that's a question for Mr. Mertl. And the third part of your question was
about the 3 series, Mexico, that's for `Jochen Goller, Member of the Board of Management, Customer, Brands, Sales. So Milan first, please.
A - `Milan Nedeljkovic, Member of the Board of Management, Production `
Thank you very much, Mr. Wilmot, for your question, please. I'm sorry if I gave you an answer that
wasn't very clear. Now looking ahead, even in Northern America, we are driving electrification.
With the electrification, of course, it's also about taking battery cells high voltage components
and other components and localizing them in the Northern American room. These potentials are
of course getting us closer to any potential USMCA regulatory elements. If that is enough or if any
additional steps would be necessary, we'll see in the future.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much, Milan. Walter?
A - `Walter Mertl, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Hello. I would like to point you to Page 261 in our forecast report. Yes, we assume that as it says
on the forecast that until the end of the year, all tariffs as of this week will be in place. However,
we also wrote that it could change at any given moment. The percentage point that you
mentioned, the change of the 1 percentage point assumes that anything that was in place as ofMarch 12 will remain until the end of the year. If it changes that percentage point will also change.
Yes, this was Page 261 in the report. Page 261 of the report outlines this in more detail.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Excellent. And part three was the 3 series. It's a very meaningful and important product in the
United States. SUV trends and which role the three series plays in the United States. I would like
to ask `Jochen Goller, Member of the Board of Management, Customer, Brands, Sales to speak on this.
A - `Jochen Goller, Member of the Board of Management, Customer, Brands, Sales `
Right. So the 3 series is and will remain, of course, the core of our brand. And if you calculate the
3 series, of course, also the i4, which is basically also our flat BEV and the 3 series touring, we are
very happy with the performance. Of course, we do see sort of a trend from sedans to SUVs all
around the world that is. However, our 3 Series is really proving itself in the market. And Mr. Zipse
was also saying today that the first car of the Neue Klasse is going to be our iX3. And we also
showed you a flat concept car. So in the next 12 to 18 months, you can expect some surprises in
this segment.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much. That was `Stephen Wilmot, Analyst, Wall Street Journal from the Wall Street Journal. Next question is
from `Henning Hintze, Analyst, Manager Magazine, Manager Magazine.
Q - `Henning Hintze, Analyst, Manager Magazine
Right. Good morning. I have noticed that you are very much speaking about the reduction of
investment, R&D, capex. However, I haven't heard too much on growth plans because the
uncertainty is what it is. I would like to understand whether you see it in this way that BMW is
maybe facing some sort of a dry spell, that growth is a bit uncertain and that's why investments
and costs are being reduced as much as possible. And I would like to know specifically whether 3
million cars until 2030 if that's still the goal. And if I understand correctly, in BEV sales 17%. You're
a little bit behind what you said in Munich. I think `Walter Mertl, Member of the Board of Management, Finance said it in Munich. 20%, he said initially.
Maybe you can comment on this and then maybe another question to you, `Joachim Post, Member of the Board of Management, Purchasing and Supplier Network. We see
some sort of a technological development that has now finished also regarding the investment
cycle. So what is the technological task for your time in the board in the new position
development and how long will that last?
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Right. I would like to say one thing. Of course, we have a board member for development. This is
going to be his remit. He's going to answer that. What Mr. Post is going to do, he can answer later.
But we'll definitely start with the first parts. This was about investment, growth plans, et cetera.
And I would like to hand over the floor to Mr. Zipse.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `
Mr. Hintze, good morning. The decline of investment from this absolute peak doesn't mean that
we're facing a dry patch. It just means we are done with the investment, right? We finished it and
of course we spoke about the Neue Klasse which by the way we're very excited about and
nothing has changed in this regard. Why are we doing the Neue Klasse? It's because we would
like to grow, we want to grow around the globe. And if you look at the world, if you look at it in
more detail, if you look at the numbers and if you ignore the brake issue from last year which ofeverywhere in the world. And you can of course also see our very wide ranging product portfolio.
Five brand new minis, the new iX3 just coming on the market and all the other vehicles are
basically in the market.
The X1 very successfully, X3 by the way has ever increasing incoming orders. This is all pretty
much hitting the target. So the plan is not really changing. So again you have to kind of ignore the
brake issue. Now we spoke about China, we spoke about the challenges. I don't need to rehash
that. But it means that BMW is on a growth trajectory especially because of the fact that next year
we will have the Neue Klasse.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Right. That's that. That was growth and then the technological tasks for the future. And again I
would like to first call upon `Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management, Development.
A - `Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management, Development `
Thank you very much for your question. Technology leadership is something that is essential to
BMW's brand and our approach. If you look at what's coming our way what we want to do is of
course more efficient dynamics, more digital, more autonomous driving, more intelligence. And I
think that's also the easy summary of what the challenges are going to be for my successor. And
the technological development is only going to expedite, it's not going to slow down anytime
soon. So I think that is going to be a big chunk of the challenge.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Right. And then `Jochen Goller, Member of the Board of Management, Customer, Brands, Sales, because it was a short comment on Bev said sales that have gone
slightly down what the outlook is there. Jochen?
A - `Jochen Goller, Member of the Board of Management, Customer, Brands, Sales `
Sure. I would like to differentiate between an absolute and a relative performance. You're correct.
Absolute numbers, yes, we are below what we wanted to do. But relatively speaking, we actually
further increased our lead to the competition. We grew across all global regions. We have more
than 50,000 electric vehicles that we sold in the United States, far, far more than our
competition, over 100,000 electric vehicles in China. So yes, you are correct. Absolute numbers,
we wanted to achieve more. Relative numbers, I believe we dominated the market and that is
before the Neue Klasse. So I believe this was a really good performance and we're really looking
forward to the next two years and the great electric vehicles that are coming our way.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much. Henning Hinze from the Manager Magazine. We have another question
from an English colleague. This is from FT, Patricia Nielsen. Over to you.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Good morning, and thank you for taking questions. Another question on tariffs I'm afraid. I just
wanted to ask, could you please clarify when you talk about tariffs as up to 12 March? My
understanding is you're talking about US tariffs on steel and aluminum, early Mexico tariffs and EU
tariffs on imported electric vehicles from China. Is that correct? And could you guide on sort of
what is the most significant tariff here? My second question is also on forward guidance. You
mentioned that supply chain costs will be an issue this year. Can you give a bit more detail as towhat you mean? Is this mitigating impact of tariffs and what concrete steps are you taking? Thank
you very much.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Right, we will start with `Walter Mertl, Member of the Board of Management, Finance first and then `Joachim Post, Member of the Board of Management, Purchasing and Supplier Network.
A - `Walter Mertl, Member of the Board of Management, Finance `
Good morning, Ms. Nielsen. Now, up to and including March 12 means that we are taking into
account the tariffs for our import from China. This is a mid triple-digit million euro amount. We are
also taking into account the tariffs from Mexico to America. This is also a triple-digit million euro
amount. Aluminum is also affected by this. This amounts to a high double-digit million euro
amount. The same is the tariffs between China and the United States and between the United
States and China. So the other way around as well. This is also a low triple-digit million euro
amount.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Right. And the second part was on the cost of the supplier network and which impact the tariffs
would have here. `Joachim Post, Member of the Board of Management, Purchasing and Supplier Network?
A - `Joachim Post, Member of the Board of Management, Purchasing and Supplier Network `
Ms. Nielsen, thank you very much for your question. As you heard before, we are following a local
approach with our production across the different regions. We're following where the markets
are. The supply chain follows production into these markets. And therefore, of course, with our
local for local approach, which also applies to the supplier network, we generally have very good
preconditions to tackle these topics and mitigate such effects. Of course, we evaluate on an
individual basis what impacts the tariffs have. And we have the individual opportunity to take a
global supplier network and be flexible around the globe and in an individual case also optimize
cost and potentially even avoid tariffs where we can.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much. The next question is `Frank Volk, Analyst, Automobilwoche, Automobilwoche. Mr. Volk, are you with us?
We cannot see you. Ah, here you are. Yes, now we can hear you.
Q - `Frank Volk, Analyst, Automobilwoche `
Thank you very much. I have three questions. One of them is a bit longer dealing with the Neue
Klasse and two short follow-ups. Onto the Neue Klasse, how long was the development time for
the Neue Klasse? Can you tell us a bit more about the capex and R&D spend for Neue Klasse?
And would you say that the solutions you have now achieved, both on the technical side when it
comes to digitalization and efficiency and the general pace of development that you are now on
what I would like to call China speed. This is one of the topic -- one of the big topics, because, of
course, they have these very short development cycles. So are you on par with that? Are you on
eye level with China? And then the last very short question, the big topic in electromobility of
course is China. Why don't you start the Neue Klasse in China?
And then the two other questions, you didn't speak much on mini. Mr. Zipse, you mentioned that
there are big expectations with the BEV models coming into the market. Now you said that the
BEV production in Oxford is currently on pause. Why is that? And when will you continue? And
then in the report and this is my third question, in the report, it says that there are significantexpenses for the supply chain support. What's the situation there? Are you expecting potential
bankruptcies in the supplier network? Because of course the situation of the suppliers is relatively
critical across different areas at the moment. So are you expecting any closures, any defaults with
your core suppliers? And how are these needed supports going to develop this year or maybe
even next year?
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Right, thank you very much. I hope we can answer all of these questions that you just sent our
way. We're going to give it our best shot. First off, the big complex of the NEUE KLASSE. Of
course `Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management, Development is particularly prepared for that. How long was the development time, capex,
R&D? Is everything satisfying? Why not in China? And so on and so forth. So I would like to hand
all of this over to `Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management, Development. Frank, over to you.
A - `Frank Weber, Member of the Board of Management, Development `
Thank you very much. I will give my best to give you a short answer first. It took us almost two
times -- two years that we took out of the development process. And you have to always
consider that Neue Klasse is not car in the sense of the word. It is a complete technology toolkit,
if you will, that is going to be used for the entire BMW portfolio. So we're always focused on the
fact that we create solutions not of individual components and individual cars, but instead take
something that we can slot into the overall BMW system.
So I think the speed with which we created these truly groundbreaking toolkits are absolutely
impressive. And we said many, many times that the investment and the development
performance that was brought into the Neue Klasse are and were the biggest across BMW's
history, which is necessary because of course as you've mentioned, you can see that technology
governs your competitiveness. I am very optimistic, but I hope that you do understand if I don't
break down the numbers in detail. This could be a competitive issue.
Now, a few numbers though digital means four super brains, four super computers that are
largely developed and produced in-house, 20 times more performant than what we're using
today. And on efficiency I kept saying efficient dynamics is BMW's core domain. And with whatever
is coming this year, we will be able to withstand any comparison with our efficient dynamics. We're
happy to go toe to toe with any competitor and we are going to have more than 20% increased
efficiency compared to what we do today.
Last question that I would like to answer, what's happening in China? And you of course know
BMW well enough for that. We are not starting here and there. We're always starting globally. This
of course is on purpose and that's why China is not less important just because it's coming 12
weeks later. The Neue Klasse of course has a global SOP. The second part of your question was
Mini, a very important brand for us of course and I would like to break this down into two parts.
Number one, `Jochen Goller, Member of the Board of Management, Customer, Brands, Sales and `Milan Nedeljkovic, Member of the Board of Management, Production. Jochen, maybe you can give a general take.
And then of course production Oxford this would be going over to Milan.
A - `Milan Nedeljkovic, Member of the Board of Management, Production `
Good morning, Mr. Volk. On the Mini, now last year, we switched to new models for all of the MINI
models. We've completed that and in March, the convertible is going to be launched and then we
will have five outstanding models. And that's why we're very confident about MINI's growth this
year. The feedback that we are getting on the new products is excellent, including our electric
models. And that's why just from the point of view of sales and the brand, we expect that this
year and also in the years to come, the MINI will perform very well. And regarding Oxford, I'd liketo hand over to my colleague. Yes, production Oxford, BEV, Milan? Well, production follows the
markets and as you know, the new generation of ICE engines has just been launched in Oxford
and our plan is to take and localize the MINIs that we are manufacturing in China with a joint
venture. Now with the ramp-up of electric mobility being delayed, we of course are also
somewhat more slower with our investments in Oxford.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
And then was the last question about how to support the supply chain. Do you expect any
insolvencies of core suppliers? Mr. Post, please.
A - `Joachim Post, Member of the Board of Management, Purchasing and Supplier Network `
Now, as you know, numerous companies are facing a challenging environment in which they
operate and some companies do have a need for restructuring to improve their competitiveness
and their productive excellence. Now, we keep a close eye on our supplier supply chain and we
monitor their situations very closely. And we've got various tools allowing us to respond quickly if
that's necessary. And so far, we have not had any production stops and we believe that we can
mitigate such things beforehand through respective measures. But we'll continue to keep a close
eye on this to ensure that this remains so in the future.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
This brings us to the last question by Lutz Myer from Capital.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Well, thank you very much. I hope you can hear me.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Yes, we can hear you.
Q - Unidentified Participant
So thanks a lot. Once again, I've got two questions. The first one is about the CO2 limits. Now, Mr.
Goller said that the rat race will especially towards the end of the year will be somewhat slowed
down. Now, to what extent have you already seen pressure in the market from your European
competitors. And that new regulation that has been announced by Ms. Von der Leyen what would
this mean for your own BEV share taking especially into account that you had already been close
to complying with the requirements in the first place? And my second question is about battery
supply in Europe and I'm asking this also in the context of the Northvolt development. Now,
what's your view on this? Does Europe need its own battery production and supply? Has this
become more difficult? You never became involved in cell production yourself at all, but maybe
you're also interested in a diversity of suppliers in this segment. So to what extent should Europe
try to ensure that Europe has got its own independent cell production in the future as well?
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thanks, Mr. Meyer. Now I suggest that the first part question for Mr. Zipse and the second part for
Oliver Post.
A - `Oliver Zipse, Chairman of the Board of Management `Good morning, Mr. Meyer. Now back again to the CO2 fleet targets. Now, we would have
achieved them anyway in the years '25, '26 and also '27. So for us, it does not make a difference
and it's not that simple. It's not only a relief for '25, because if you don't make it in '25, you still
have to do it in '26 or '27. And it's not so easy to achieve that if structurally speaking in terms of
your architectures and your markets and in terms of your capacities if you're not prepared in that
regard. So it's not going to be that easy. But we are currently not very much worried about that.
However, I caution against subsidies distorting the markets that would be a very dangerous
undertaking. However, now we have also to look forward to 2030 and 2035 and we will fight for
technology openness. Why do we do so? Because the investment behavior of the European and
global supplier industry is already looking at 2030 and 2035. And there's one thing that must not
happen namely even before the regulation becomes effective, we must not shut down certain
technologies. That's why we are very much in favor of this early review.
Thank you. And the second part of your question was about battery supply and battery
production in Europe. Now, generally speaking in order to grow in E-mobility, Europe needs a local
well functioning battery supply chain. However, one has to acknowledge that the lead which
suppliers from China and South Korea have is quite substantial. And here I'm not talking about
developing battery cells, but I'm talking about a highly efficient production, which is able to
manufacture battery cells at a top quality and relatively low costs. So that's a challenge. And, of
course, that is something the strategy for e-mobility in Europe has to take into account because
that did not happen overnight. So, the proper environment for investments in Europe has to be
created in order to incentivize companies to localize such production facilities in Europe. This is
certainly much better than trying impose bans or tariffs. And therefore, Europe has to make sure
that it creates this kind of conducive environment.
A - `Maximilian Schoeberl, Director Corporate Affairs `
Thank you very much, Mr. `Joachim Post, Member of the Board of Management, Purchasing and Supplier Network. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, this brings us to
the end of our press conference. I'd like to thank you very much for your attention. Thank you for
having joined us and for having asking your questions. Stay tuned, and we will continue to work
hard at BMW. Best regards from Munich and servus.