MANAGEMENT ’ S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including but not limited to those discussed in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. (See “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.”) CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND POLICIES The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions in applying our accounting policies that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base these estimates and assumptions on historical experience, and evaluate them on an on-going basis to ensure that they remain reasonable under current conditions. Actual results could differ from those estimates. We discuss the development and selection of the critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors on a quarterly basis, and the Audit Committee has reviewed our related disclosure in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments and assumptions and which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include the following: Revenue Recognition. We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. We derive revenue from three sources—sales of systems, spare parts and services. In general, we recognize revenue for systems when the system has been installed, is operating according to predetermined specifications and is accepted by the customer. When we have demonstrated a history of successful installation and acceptance, we recognize revenue upon delivery and customer acceptance. Under certain circumstances, however, we recognize revenue prior to acceptance from the customer, as follows: • When the customer fab has previously accepted the same tool, with the same specifications, and when we can objectively demonstrate that the tool meets all of the required acceptance criteria. • When system sales to independent distributors have no installation requirement, contain no acceptance agreement, and 100% of the payment is due based upon shipment. • When the installation of the system is deemed perfunctory. • When the customer withholds acceptance due to issues unrelated to product performance, in which case revenue is recognized when the system is performing as intended and meets predetermined specifications. In circumstances in which we recognize revenue prior to installation, the portion of revenue associated with installation is deferred based on estimated fair value, and that revenue is recognized upon completion of the installation. In many instances, products are sold in stand-alone arrangements. Services are sold separately through renewals of annual maintenance contracts. We have multiple element revenue arrangements in cases where certain elements of a sales arrangement are not delivered and accepted in one reporting period. To determine the relative fair value of each element in a revenue arrangement, we allocate arrangement consideration based on the selling price hierarchy. For substantially all of the arrangements with multiple deliverables pertaining to products and services, we use vendor-specific objective evidence (“VSOE”) or third-party evidence (“TPE”) to allocate the selling price to each deliverable. We determine TPE based on historical prices charged for products and services when sold on a stand-alone basis. When we are unable to establish relative selling price using VSOE or TPE, we use estimated selling price (“ESP”) in our allocation of arrangement consideration. The objective of ESP is to determine the price at which we would transact a sale if the product or service were sold on a stand-alone basis. ESP could potentially be used for new or customized products. We regularly review relative selling prices and maintain internal controls over the establishment and updates of these estimates. In a multiple element revenue arrangement, we defer revenue recognition associated with the relative fair value of each undelivered element until that element is delivered to the customer. To be considered a separate element, the product or service in question must represent a separate unit of accounting, which means that such product or service must fulfill the following criteria: (a) the delivered item(s) has value to the customer on a stand-alone basis; and (b) if the arrangement includes a general right of return relative to the delivered item(s), delivery or performance of the undelivered item(s) is considered probable and substantially in our control. If the arrangement does not meet all the above criteria, the entire amount of the sales contract is deferred until all elements are accepted by the customer. 39 Table of Contents Trade-in rights are occasionally granted to customers to trade in tools in connection with subsequent purchases. We estimate the value of the trade-in right and reduce the revenue recognized on the initial sale. This amount is recognized at the earlier of the exercise of the trade-in right or the expiration of the trade-in right. Spare parts revenue is recognized when the product has been shipped, risk of loss has passed to the customer and collection of the resulting receivable is probable. Service and maintenance contract revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the maintenance contract. Revenue from services performed in the absence of a maintenance contract, including consulting and training revenue, is recognized when the related services are performed and collectibility is reasonably assured. We sell stand-alone software that is subject to software revenue recognition guidance. We periodically review selling prices to determine whether VSOE exists, and in situations where we are unable to establish VSOE for undelivered elements such as post-contract service, revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the service contract. We also defer the fair value of non-standard warranty bundled with equipment sales as unearned revenue. Non-standard warranty includes services incremental to the standard 40-hour per week coverage for 12 months. Non-standard warranty is recognized ratably as revenue when the applicable warranty term period commences. The deferred system profit balance equals the amount of deferred system revenue that was invoiced and due on shipment, less applicable product and warranty costs. Deferred system revenue represents the value of products that have been shipped and billed to customers which have not met our revenue recognition criteria. Deferred system profit does not include the profit associated with product shipments to certain customers in Japan, to whom title does not transfer until customer acceptance. Shipments to such customers in Japan are classified as inventory at cost until the time of acceptance. We enter into sales arrangements that may consist of multiple deliverables of our products and services where certain elements of the sales arrangement are not delivered and accepted in one reporting period. Judgment is required to properly identify the accounting units of the multiple deliverable transactions and to determine the manner in which revenue should be allocated among the accounting units. Additionally, judgment is required to interpret various commercial terms and determine when all criteria of revenue recognition have been met in order for revenue recognition to occur in the appropriate accounting period. While changes in the allocation of the estimated selling price between the accounting units will not affect the amount of total revenue recognized for a particular arrangement, any material changes in these allocations could impact the timing of revenue recognition, which could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations. Inventories. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (on a first-in, first-out basis) or market. Demonstration units are stated at their manufacturing cost and written down to their net realizable value. Our manufacturing overhead standards for product costs are calculated assuming full absorption of forecasted spending over projected volumes, adjusted for excess capacity. Abnormal inventory costs such as costs of idle facilities, excess freight and handling costs, and spoilage are recognized as current period charges. We write down product inventory based on forecasted demand and technological obsolescence and service spare parts inventory based on forecasted usage. These factors are impacted by market and economic conditions, technology changes, new product introductions and changes in strategic direction and require estimates that may include uncertain elements. Actual demand may differ from forecasted demand, and such differences may have a material effect on recorded inventory values. Warranty. We provide standard warranty coverage on our systems for 40 hours per week for 12 months, providing labor and parts necessary to repair the systems during the warranty period. We account for the estimated warranty cost as a charge to costs of revenues when revenue is recognized. The estimated warranty cost is based on historical product performance and field expenses. Utilizing actual service records, we calculate the average service hours and parts expense per system and apply the actual labor and overhead rates to determine the estimated warranty charge. We update these estimated charges on a regular basis. The actual product performance and/or field expense profiles may differ, and in those cases we adjust our warranty accruals accordingly. See Note 12, “Commitments and Contingencies” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. 40 Table of Contents Allowance for Doubtful Accounts. A majority of our trade receivables are derived from sales to large multinational semiconductor manufacturers throughout the world. In order to monitor potential credit losses, we perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition. An allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained for probable credit losses based upon our assessment of the expected collectibility of the accounts receivable. The allowance for doubtful accounts is reviewed on a quarterly basis to assess the adequacy of the allowance. We take into consideration (1) any circumstances of which we are aware of a customer’s inability to meet its financial obligations; and (2) our judgments as to prevailing economic conditions in the industry and their impact on our customers. If circumstances change, such that the financial conditions of our customers are adversely affected and they are unable to meet their financial obligations to us, we may need to record additional allowances, which would result in a reduction of our net income. Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation Plans. We account for stock-based awards granted to employees for services based on the fair value of those awards. The fair value of stock-based awards is measured at the grant date and is recognized as expense over the employee’s requisite service period. The fair value for restricted stock units granted without “dividend equivalent” rights is determined using the closing price of our common stock on the grant date for restricted stock units, adjusted to exclude the present value of dividends which are not accrued on the restricted stock units. The fair value for restricted stock units granted with “dividend equivalent” rights is determined using the closing price of our common stock on the grant date. The award holder is not entitled to receive payments under dividend equivalent rights unless the associated restricted stock unit award vests (i.e., the award holder is entitled to receive credits, payable in cash or shares of our common stock, equal to the cash dividends that would have been received on the shares of our common stock underlying the restricted stock units had the shares been issued and outstanding on the dividend record date, but such dividend equivalents are only paid subject to the recipient satisfying the vesting requirements of the underlying award). The fair value is determined using a Black-Scholes valuation model for purchase rights under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The Black-Scholes option-pricing model requires the input of assumptions, including the option’s expected term and the expected price volatility of the underlying stock. The expected stock price volatility assumption is based on the market-based historical implied volatility from traded options of our common stock. We have elected not to include the indirect tax effects of stock-based compensation deductions when calculating the windfall benefits and therefore recognize the full effect of these deductions in the income statement in the period in which the taxable event occurs. Accounting for Cash-Based Long-Term Incentive Compensation. Cash-based long-term incentive (“Cash LTI”) awards issued to employees under our Cash LTI program vest in four equal installments, with 25% of the aggregate amount of the Cash LTI award vesting on each yearly anniversary of the grant date over a four -year period. In order to receive payments under a Cash LTI award, participants must remain employed by us as of the applicable award vesting date. Compensation expense related to the Cash LTI awards is recognized over the vesting term, which is adjusted for the impact of estimated forfeitures. Contingencies and Litigation. We are subject to the possibility of losses from various contingencies. Considerable judgment is necessary to estimate the probability and amount of any loss from such contingencies. An accrual is made when it is probable that a liability has been incurred or an asset has been impaired and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. We accrue a liability and recognize as expense the estimated costs expected to be incurred over the next twelve months to defend or settle asserted and unasserted claims existing as of the balance sheet date. See Note 12, “Commitments and Contingencies” and Note 13, “Litigation and Other Legal Matters” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. Goodwill and Intangible Assets. We assess goodwill for impairment annually as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Long-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. See Note 5, “Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired in each business combination. We performed our annual qualitative assessment of the goodwill by reporting unit in our second quarter of fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 and concluded that there was no impairment. There have been no significant events or circumstances affecting the valuation of goodwill subsequent to our annual impairment test. The next annual evaluation of the goodwill by reporting unit will be performed in the second quarter of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2017 . If we were to encounter challenging economic conditions, such as a decline in our operating results, an unfavorable industry or macroeconomic environment, a substantial decline in our stock price, or any other adverse change in market conditions, we may be required to perform the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment analysis. In addition, if such conditions have the effect of changing one of the critical assumptions or estimates we use to calculate the value of our goodwill or intangible assets, we may be required to record goodwill and/or intangible asset impairment charges in future periods. It is not possible at this time to determine if any such future impairment charge would occur or, if it does, whether such charge would be material to our results of operations. 41 Table of Contents Income Taxes. We account for income taxes in accordance with the authoritative guidance, which requires that deferred tax assets and liabilities be recognized using enacted tax rates for the effect of temporary differences between the book and tax bases of recorded assets and liabilities. The guidance also requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. We have determined that a valuation allowance is necessary against a portion of the deferred tax assets, but we anticipate that our future taxable income will be sufficient to recover the remainder of our deferred tax assets. However, should there be a change in our ability to recover our deferred tax assets that are not subject to a valuation allowance, we could be required to record an additional valuation allowance against such deferred tax assets. This would result in an increase to our tax provision in the period in which we determine that the recovery is not probable. On a quarterly basis, we provide for income taxes based upon an estimated annual effective income tax rate. The effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings, tax regulations governing each region, availability of tax credits and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. We carefully monitor the changes in many factors and adjust our effective income tax rate on a timely basis. If actual results differ from these estimates, this could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. In accordance with the authoritative guidance on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, we recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on the two-step process. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained in audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We reevaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit and new audit activity. Any change in these factors could result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision. Valuation of Marketable Securities. Our investments in available-for-sale securities are reported at fair value. Unrealized gains related to increases in the fair value of investments and unrealized losses related to decreases in the fair value are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, as reported on our Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity. However, changes in the fair value of investments impact our net income only when such investments are sold or an impairment charge is recognized. Realized gains and losses on the sale of securities are determined by specific identification of the security’s cost basis. We periodically review our investment portfolio to determine if any investment is other-than-temporarily impaired due to changes in credit risk or other potential valuation concerns, which would require us to record an impairment charge in the period during which any such determination is made. In making this judgment, we evaluate, among other things, the duration of the investment, the extent to which the fair value of an investment is less than its cost, the credit rating and any changes in credit rating for the investment, default and loss rates of the underlying collateral, structure and credit enhancements to determine if a credit loss may exist. Our assessment that an investment is not other-than-temporarily impaired could change in the future due to new developments or changes in our strategies or assumptions related to any particular investment. Effects of Recent Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted In November 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards board (“FASB”) issued an accounting standard update for the presentation of deferred income taxes. Under this new guidance, deferred tax assets and liabilities should be classified as noncurrent in a classified balance sheet. We early adopted this accounting standard update on a prospective basis at the beginning of the fourth quarter of fiscal year ended 2016. Upon adoption, approximately $218 million in net current deferred tax assets were reclassified to noncurrent. No prior periods were retrospectively adjusted. 42 Table of Contents Updates Not Yet Effective In May 2014, the FASB issued an accounting standard update regarding revenue from customer contracts to transfer goods and services or non-financial assets unless the contracts are covered by other standards (for example, insurance or lease contracts). Under the new guidance, an entity should recognize revenue in connection with the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the entity expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In addition, the new standard requires that reporting companies disclose the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. In August 2015, the FASB issued an amendment to defer the effective date of the update by one year, with early adoption on the original effective date permitted. With this amendment, the updates are effective for us beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019, with early adoption permitted beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2018. Subsequent to this amendment, the FASB has issued additional clarifying implementation guidance. The new revenue standard may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of adoption. We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2015, the FASB issued an accounting standard update for customer’s cloud based fees. The guidance changes what a customer must consider in determining whether a cloud computing arrangement contains a software license. If the arrangement contains a software license, the customer would account for the fees related to the software license element in accordance with guidance related to internal use software; if the arrangement does not contain a software license, the customer would account for the arrangement as a service contract. The update is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2017. Early adoption is permitted as of the beginning of an interim or annual period. We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our consolidated financial statements. In July 2015, the FASB issued an accounting standard update for the subsequent measurement of inventory. The amended guidance requires entities to measure inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Net realizable value is the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation. The requirement would replace the current lower of cost or market evaluation and the accounting guidance is unchanged for inventory measured using last-in, first-out (“LIFO”) or the retail inventory method. The update is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2018 and should be applied prospectively with early adoption permitted as of the beginning of an interim or annual reporting period. We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our consolidated financial statements. In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that changes the accounting for financial instruments primarily related to equity investments (other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee), financial liabilities under the fair value option, and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments. The accounting standard update is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending 2019, and early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update which amends the existing accounting standards for leases. Consistent with current guidance, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification. Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize assets and liabilities for all leases with lease terms of more than 12 months. The update is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2020 using a modified retrospective transition method. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to simplify certain aspects of share-based payment awards to employees, including the accounting for income taxes, an option to recognize gross stock-based compensation expense with actual forfeitures recognized as they occur and statutory tax withholding requirements, as well as certain classifications in the statement of cash flows. The update is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2018, with early adoption permitted and all of the guidance must be adopted in the same period. We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our consolidated financial statements. In June 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that changes the accounting for recognizing impairments of financial assets. Under the update, credit losses for certain types of financial instruments will be estimated based on expected losses. The update also modifies the impairment models for available-for-sale debt securities and for purchased financial assets with credit deterioration since their origination. The update is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2021, with early adoption permitted starting in the first quarter of fiscal year ending 2020. We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our consolidated financial statements. 43 Table of Contents EXECUTIVE SUMMARY KLA-Tencor Corporation is a leading supplier of process control and yield management solutions for the semiconductor and related nanoelectronics industries. Our broad portfolio of inspection and metrology products, and related service, software and other offerings primarily supports integrated circuit (“IC” or “chip”) manufacturers throughout the entire semiconductor fabrication process, from research and development to final volume production. We provide leading-edge equipment, software and support that enable IC manufacturers to identify, resolve and manage significant advanced technology manufacturing process challenges and obtain higher finished product yields at lower overall cost. In addition to serving the semiconductor industry, we also provide a range of technology solutions to a number of other high technology industries, including the LED and data storage industries, as well as general materials research. Our products and services are used by the vast majority of bare wafer, IC, lithography reticle (“reticle” or “mask”) and disk manufacturers around the world. Our products, services and expertise are used by our customers to measure, detect, analyze and resolve critical product defects that arise in that environment in order to control nanometric level manufacturing processes. Our revenues are driven largely by our customers’ spending on capital equipment and related maintenance services necessary to support key transitions in their underlying product technologies, or to increase their production volumes in response to market demand. Our semiconductor customers generally operate in one or more of the three major semiconductor markets - memory, foundry and logic. All three of these markets are characterized by rapid technological changes and sudden shifts in end-user demand, which influence the level and pattern of our customers’ spending on our products and services. Although capital spending in all three semiconductor markets has historically been very cyclical, the demand for more advanced and lower cost chips used in a growing number of consumer electronics, communications, data processing, and industrial and automotive products has resulted over the long term in a favorable demand environment for our process control and yield management solutions, particularly in the foundry and logic markets, which have higher levels of process control adoption than the memory market. As we are a supplier to the global semiconductor and semiconductor-related industries, our customer base continues to become more highly concentrated over time, thereby increasing the potential impact of a sudden change in capital spending by a major customer on our revenues and profitability. As our customer base becomes increasingly more concentrated, large orders from a relatively limited number of customers account for a substantial portion of our sales, which potentially exposes us to more volatility for revenues and earnings. We are also subject to the cyclical capital spending that has historically characterized the semiconductor and semiconductor-related industries. The timing, length, intensity and volatility of the capacity-oriented capital spending cycles of our customers are unpredictable. The semiconductor industry has also been characterized by constant technological innovation. The growing use of increasingly sophisticated semiconductor devices in mobile consumer products has caused many of our customers to invest in additional semiconductor manufacturing capabilities and capacity. On the other hand, higher design costs for the most advanced ICs could economically constrain leading-edge manufacturing technology customers to focus their resources on only the large technologically advanced products and applications. We believe that, over the long term, our customers will continue to invest in advanced technologies and new materials to enable smaller design rules and higher density applications that fuel demand for process control equipment, although the growth for such equipment may be adversely impacted by higher design costs for advanced ICs, reuse of installed products, and delays in production ramps by our customers in response to higher costs and technical challenges at more advanced technology nodes. The demand for our products and our revenue levels are driven by our customers’ needs to solve the process challenges that they face as they adopt new technologies required to fabricate advanced ICs that are incorporated into sophisticated mobile devices. The timing for our customers in ordering and taking delivery of process control and yield management equipment is also determined by our customers’ requirements to meet the next generation production ramp schedules, and the timing for capacity expansion to meet end customer demand. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016, we experienced strong demand for our products as we released a new generation of inspection products and our foundry customers increased their level of investments in our process control tools. Our earnings will depend not only on our revenue levels, but also on the amount of research and development spending required to meet our customers’ technology roadmaps. We have maintained production volumes and capacity to meet anticipated customer requirements and remain at risk of incurring significant inventory-related and other restructuring charges if business conditions deteriorate. Over the past year, our customers have taken delivery of higher volumes of process control equipment than they did in the previous year. However, any delay or push out by our customers in taking delivery of process control and yield management equipment may cause earnings volatility, due to increases in the risk of inventory related charges as well as timing of revenue recognition due to expiration of credits or volume discounts, which, if not used by a stipulated time frame, will expire. 44 Table of Contents Proposed Merger with Lam Research On October 20, 2015, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization (the “Merger Agreement”) with Lam Research Corporation (“Lam Research”), under which KLA-Tencor will ultimately become a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Lam Research . The Merger has been unanimously approved by the boards of directors of both companies. The consummation of the Merger is conditioned on the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including domestic and foreign regulatory approvals and performance in all material respects by each party of its obligations under the Merger Agreement. On February 19, 2016, the Merger Agreement was approved by KLA-Tencor’s stockholders and Lam Research’s stockholders approved the issuance of Lam Research’s common stock in the Merger. Refer also to Note 1 “Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Item 1A, “Risk Factors.” For additional details on the transaction, refer to the copy of the Merger Agreement attached as an Exhibit to the Form 8-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on October 21, 2015. The following table sets forth some of our key consolidated financial information for each of our last three fiscal years: Year ended June 30, (Dollar amounts in thousands) 2016 2015 2014 Total revenues $ 2,984,493 $ 2,814,049 $ 2,929,408 Costs of revenues $ 1,163,391 $ 1,215,229 $ 1,232,962 Gross margin percentage 61 % 57 % 58 % Net income $ 704,422 $ 366,158 $ 582,755 Diluted net income per share $ 4.49 $ 2.24 $ 3.47 Total revenues during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 increased by 6% compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015. Our year over year revenue growth reflected increases from sales of both our inspection and metrology products as our customers continue to invest in process control and services. Increased revenues during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 were also driven by the introduction of our new generation of inspection products as well strong demand from our foundry customers and an increase in the number of post-warranty systems installed at our customers’ sites over this time period for our service revenues. Total revenues during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 decreased by 4% compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 . Revenue decreases from sales of both our inspection and metrology products for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 reflected our customers’ decline in capital spending for process control equipment, due to shifts in the timing of the new technology ramps and capacity-related expansion plans. Revenues and Gross Margin Year ended June 30, (Dollar amounts in thousands) 2016 2015 2014 FY16 vs. FY15 FY15 vs. FY14 Revenues: Product $ 2,250,260 $ 2,125,396 $ 2,286,437 $ 124,864 6 % $ (161,041 ) (7 )% Service 734,233 688,653 642,971 45,580 7 % 45,682 7 % Total revenues $ 2,984,493 $ 2,814,049 $ 2,929,408 $ 170,444 6 % $ (115,359 ) (4 )% Costs of revenues $ 1,163,391 $ 1,215,229 $ 1,232,962 $ (51,838 ) (4 )% $ (17,733 ) (1 )% Gross margin percentage 61 % 57 % 58 % 4 % (1 )% Product revenues Our business is affected by the concentration of our customer base and our customers’ capital equipment procurement schedules as a result of their investment plans. Our product revenues in any particular period are significantly impacted by the amount of new orders that we receive during that period and, depending upon the duration of manufacturing and installation cycles, in the preceding period. 45 Table of Contents Product revenues increased by 6% in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 , primarily due to growth in revenues from our customers in China, Taiwan and Japan, partially offset by lower revenues from our customers in North America, Korea, Rest of Asia and Europe & Israel. The year over year increase in our product revenues were primarily driven by strong demand for our inspection and metrology products, the introduction of our new generation of inspection products and the expansion of semiconductor investments in Asia, particularly in China and Taiwan from our foundry customers. Product revenues decreased by 7% in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 , primarily as a result of lower revenues from our customers in Taiwan, China and the rest of Asia, Europe and Israel, partially offset by higher revenues from our customers in North America, Korea and Japan. The decline in revenues was impacted by the timing of development and new technology ramps of our customers as well as the lower shipments of our products, particularly to our foundry customers in Taiwan, due to timing of capacity-related expansion plans. Service revenues Service revenues are generated from maintenance contracts, as well as billable time and material service calls made to our customers after the expiration of the warranty period. The amount of our service revenues is typically a function of the number of post-warranty systems installed at our customers’ sites and the utilization of those systems, but it is also impacted by other factors, such as our rate of service contract renewals, the types of systems being serviced and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Service revenues increased sequentially over the fiscal years ended June 30, 2014 , 2015 and 2016 , primarily as a result of an increase over time in the number of post-warranty systems installed at our customers’ sites over that time period. Revenues - Top Customers The following customers each accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues for the indicated periods: Year ended June 30, 2016 2015 2014 Micron Technology, Inc. Intel Corporation Intel Corporation Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited Revenues by region Revenues by region for the periods indicated were as follows: Year ended June 30, (Dollar amounts in thousands) 2016 2015 2014 Taiwan $ 894,557 30 % $ 691,482 25 % $ 741,470 25 % North America 521,335 18 % 815,914 29 % 705,159 24 % Japan 444,216 15 % 426,963 15 % 334,653 11 % China 430,074 14 % 162,669 6 % 260,089 9 % Korea 367,905 12 % 405,320 14 % 371,139 13 % Europe & Israel 167,936 6 % 194,670 7 % 306,779 11 % Rest of Asia 158,470 5 % 117,031 4 % 210,119 7 % Total $ 2,984,493 100 % $ 2,814,049 100 % $ 2,929,408 100 % A significant portion of our revenues continues to be generated in Asia, where a substantial portion of the world’s semiconductor manufacturing capacity is located, and we expect that trend to continue. 46 Table of Contents Gross margin Our gross margin fluctuates with revenue levels and product mix and is affected by variations in costs related to manufacturing and servicing our products, including our ability to scale our operations efficiently and effectively in response to prevailing business conditions. The following table summarizes the major factors that contributed to the changes in gross margin percentage: Gross Margin Percentage Fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 57.9 % Revenue volume of products and services (1.1 )% Mix of products and services sold 0.3 % Manufacturing labor, overhead and efficiencies (0.6 )% Other service and manufacturing costs 0.3 % Fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 56.8 % Revenue volume of products and services 0.4 % Mix of products and services sold 2.6 % Manufacturing labor, overhead and efficiencies 0.7 % Other service and manufacturing costs 0.5 % Fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 61.0 % Changes in gross margin percentage driven by revenue volume of products and services reflect our ability to leverage existing infrastructure to generate higher revenues. It also includes the effect of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, average customer pricing and customer revenue deferrals associated with volume purchase agreements. Changes in gross margin percentage from mix of products and services sold reflect the impact of changes in the composition within product and service offerings. Changes in gross margin percentage from manufacturing labor, overhead and efficiencies reflect our ability to manage costs and drive productivity as we scale our manufacturing activity to respond to customer requirements; this includes the impact of capacity utilization, use of overtime and variability of cost structure. Changes in gross margin percentage from other service and manufacturing costs include the impact of customer support costs, including the efficiencies with which we deliver services to our customers, and the effectiveness with which we manage our production plans and inventory risk. Our gross margin increased to 61.0% during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 from 56.8% during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 , primarily due to a favorable mix of products and services sold, an increase in manufacturing efficiencies driven by lower warranty costs as well as a decrease in severance-related expenses, and higher revenue volume of products and service. Our gross margin decreased to 56.8% during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 from 57.9% during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 , primarily due to lower volume of products and services, as well as a reduction in manufacturing efficiencies driven by lower manufacturing output and severance-related expenses, a substantial amount of which is related to our global workforce reduction plan that we announced in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015, refer to Note 14, “Restructuring Charges” for additional details. The above decreases were partially offset by a favorable mix of products and services sold and efficiencies derived from other service and manufacturing costs. Research and Development (“R&D”) Year ended June 30, (Dollar amounts in thousands) 2016 2015 2014 FY16 vs. FY15 FY15 vs. FY14 R&D expenses $ 481,258 $ 530,616 $ 539,469 $ (49,358 ) (9 )% $ (8,853 ) (2 )% R&D expenses as a percentage of total revenues 16 % 19 % 18 % (3 )% 1 % R&D expenses may fluctuate with product development phases and project timing as well as our focused R&D efforts that are aligned with our overall business strategy. As technological innovation is essential to our success, we may incur significant costs associated with R&D projects, including compensation for engineering talent, engineering material costs, and other expenses. 47 Table of Contents R&D expenses during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 were lower compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 , primarily due to a decrease in employee related expenses, including severance-related expenses of $33.9 million as a result of the reduced headcount from our global workforce reduction that we initiated during the three months ended June 30, 2015 , partially offset by an increase in variable compensation of $10.6 million. Additionally, there was a decrease in engineering materials and supplies expenses of $21.0 million and an increase in the benefit to R&D expense from external funding of $5.4 million. R&D expenses during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 were lower compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 , primarily due to a decrease in engineering materials and consulting costs of $19.8 million associated with the completion of major platform developments, a decrease in depreciation expense of $2.1 million and a decrease in travel expenses of $1.2 million. This was partially offset by an increase in employee-related expenses of $10.6 million mainly as a result of our severance-related expenses, a substantial amount of which is related to our global workforce reduction plan that we announced in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015, refer to Note 14, “Restructuring Charges” for additional details. In addition, the decrease was partially offset by a $6.3 million reduction in external funding used to offset the cost of R&D activities. Our future operating results will depend significantly on our ability to produce products and provide services that have a competitive advantage in our marketplace. To do this, we believe that we must continue to make substantial and focused investments in our research and development. We remain committed to product development in new and emerging technologies as we address the yield challenges our customers face at future technology nodes. Selling, General and Administrative (“SG&A”) Year ended June 30, (Dollar amounts in thousands) 2016 2015 2014 FY16 vs. FY15 FY15 vs. FY14 SG&A expenses $ 379,399 $ 406,864 $ 384,907 $ (27,465 ) (7 )% $ 21,957 6 % SG&A expenses as a percentage of total revenues 13 % 14 % 13 % (1 )% 1 % SG&A expenses during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 were lower compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 , primarily due to a decrease in employee-related expenses, including severance-related expenses, of $28.0 million as a result of the reduced headcount from our global workforce reduction that we initiated during the three months ended June 30, 2015 partially offset by an increase in variable compensation of $16.4 million, a decrease in cost of support for sales evaluation of $8.6 million, a decrease in contributions to support our corporate social responsibility program of $7.0 million and a decrease in travel-related expenses of $4.7 million. The decreases above were partially offset by an increase in our merger-related expenses of $15.6 million pertaining to the pending Merger with Lam Research, principally for financial advisory services including the fairness opinion fees, employee-related expenses and legal fees during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 . SG&A expenses during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 were higher compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 , primarily due to an increase in employee-related expenses of $8.3 million mainly as a result of severance-related expenses, a substantial amount of which is related to our global workforce reduction plan that we announced in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 (refer to Note 14, “Restructuring Charges” for additional details), an increase in cost of support for sales evaluation of $6.5 million, an increase in certain expenses of $2.5 million as a result of our one-time leveraged recapitalization expense that was completed in the three months ended December 31, 2014, a payment related to a contractual settlement for $2.0 million, an increase due to the impairment charge recorded for certain long-lived assets of $1.7 million and an increase in legal fees of $1.6 million. In addition, during the three months ended December 31, 2013, SG&A expenses were favorably impacted by our receipt of $1.1 million in proceeds from a class action settlement, as well as our recovery of $1.1 million in receivables that had previously been classified as a bad debt expense during the three months ended December 31, 2013, both of which resulted in a decrease of our SG&A expense for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014. The increases described above were partially offset by a decrease in travel related expenses of $4.3 million and a decrease in marketing-related expenses of $1.9 million. 48 Table of Contents Restructuring Charges During the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended 2015, we announced a plan to reduce our global employee workforce to streamline our organization and business processes in response to changing customer requirements in its industry. The goals of this reduction were to enable continued innovation, direct our resources toward its best opportunities and lower our ongoing expense run rate. We substantially completed our global workforce reduction during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 and recorded an $8.9 million net restructuring charge, of which $3.6 million was recorded to costs of revenues, $1.6 million to research and development expense and $3.7 million to selling, general and administrative expense. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 , we recorded a $31.6 million net restructuring charge, of which $8.0 million was recorded to costs of revenues, $11.1 million to research and development expense and $12.5 million to selling, general and administrative expense. Refer to Note 14, “Restructuring Charges” for additional details. The following table shows the activity primarily related to accrual for severance and benefits for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 : Year ended June 30, (In thousands) 2016 2015 Beginning balance $ 24,887 $ 2,329 Restructuring costs 8,926 31,569 Adjustments (142 ) 1,177 Cash payments (33,084 ) (10,188 ) Ending balance $ 587 $ 24,887 The remaining accrual for severance and benefits as of June 30, 2016 is expected to be paid out by the end of our quarter ending December 31, 2016. Interest Expense and Other Expense (Income), Net Year ended June 30, (Dollar amounts in thousands) 2016 2015 2014 Interest expense $ 122,887 $ 106,009 $ 53,812 Other expense (income), net $ (20,634 ) $ (10,469 ) $ (16,203 ) Interest expense as a percentage of total revenues 4 % 4 % 2 % Other expense (income), net as a percentage of total revenues 1 % — % 1 % The increase in interest expense during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 was primarily attributable to the $2.50 billion aggregate principal amount of senior, unsecured long-term notes (collectively referred to as “Senior Notes”), the $750.0 million unsecured prepayable term loans and the $500.0 million unfunded revolving credit facility which were executed during the three months ended December 31, 2014 and which were not outstanding for the entire fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 . In addition, the $750.0 million of 2018 Senior Notes were redeemed during the three months ended December 31, 2014 . The increase in interest expense during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 was primarily attributable to the issuance of $2.50 billion aggregate principal amount of senior, unsecured long-term notes and entry into the $750.0 million unsecured prepayable term loan facility during the three months ended December 31, 2014 , as compared to $750.0 million of 2018 Senior Notes for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 . Other expense (income), net is comprised primarily of realized gains or losses on sales of marketable securities, gains or losses from revaluations of certain foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities as well as foreign currency contracts, impairments associated with equity investments in privately-held companies, interest related accruals (such as interest and penalty accruals related to our tax obligations) and interest income earned on our investment and cash portfolio. The increase in other expense (income), net during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 was primarily due to reduction of interest and penalty accruals related to uncertain tax positions of $5.5 million and an increase of $4.5 million for gain on the sale of equity investments in privately-held companies net of impairment charges. 49 Table of Contents The decrease in other expense (income), net during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 was primarily attributable to a net decline of $4.7 million in gains from the sale of equity investments in privately-held companies, a $1.1 million decrease in interest income from our investment portfolio as a result of our decision to liquidate certain marketable securities and a $1.1 million increase in net foreign currency losses resulting from the volatility of the foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, which was partially offset by a decrease in an impairment charge of $1.0 million related to an equity investment in a privately-held company that was deemed to be other-than-temporary impairment and an increase of $0.9 million of realized gains from the investment portfolio liquidation. Loss on extinguishment of debt and other, net For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 , loss on extinguishment of debt and other, net, reflected a pre-tax net loss of $131.7 million associated with the redemption of our $750.0 million of 2018 Senior Notes during the three months ended December 31, 2014 . Included in the loss on extinguishment of debt and other, net is the $1.2 million gain on the non-designated forward contract that was entered into by us in anticipation of the redemption of the 2018 Senior Notes, which were redeemed during the three months ended December 31, 2014 . Refer to “Note 6, Debt” and “Note 15, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” for further details. We had no loss on extinguishment of debt and other, net, in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2016 and 2014 . Provision for Income Taxes The following table provides details of income taxes: Year ended June 30, (Dollar amounts in thousands) 2016 2015 2014 Income before income taxes $ 858,192 $ 434,131 $ 734,461 Provision for income taxes $ 153,770 $ 67,973 $ 151,706 Effective tax rate 17.9 % 15.7 % 20.7 % The provision for income taxes differs from the statutory U.S. federal rate primarily due to foreign income with lower tax rates, tax credits, and other domestic incentives. Tax expense as a percentage of income during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 was 17.9% compared to 15.7% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 . Tax expense as a percentage of income increased primarily due to an increase in the percentage of income earned in the U.S. compared to income earned outside the U.S. in jurisdictions with lower tax rates. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015, the loss on extinguishment of debt decreased income earned in the U.S. Tax expense as a percentage of income during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 was 15.7% compared to 20.7% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 . Tax expense as a percentage of income decreased primarily due to an increase in our research and development credits, an increase in the domestic manufacturing deduction as a percentage of income, and a decrease in the percentage of income earned in the U.S. as a result of the loss on extinguishment of debt compared to income earned outside the U.S. in jurisdictions with lower tax rates. Our future effective income tax rate depends on various factors, such as tax legislation, the geographic composition of our pre-tax income, the amount of our pre-tax income as business activities fluctuate, non-deductible expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions, research and development credits as a percentage of aggregate pre-tax income, the domestic manufacturing deduction, non-taxable or non-deductible increases or decreases in the assets held within our Executive Deferred Savings Plan, the tax effects of employee stock activity and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. In the normal course of business, we are subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income or other taxes against us. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. 50 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, (Dollar amounts in thousands) 2016 2015 2014 Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,108,488 $ 838,025 $ 630,861 Marketable securities 1,382,806 1,549,086 2,521,776 Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 2,491,294 $ 2,387,111 $ 3,152,637 Percentage of total assets 50 % 49 % 57 % Year ended June 30, (In thousands) 2016 2015 2014 Cash flows: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 759,696 $ 605,906 $ 778,886 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 144,687 918,221 (676,109 ) Net cash used in financing activities (636,702 ) (1,302,972 ) (458,887 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 2,782 (13,991 ) 1,581 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 270,463 $ 207,164 $ (354,529 ) Cash and Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities: As of June 30, 2016 , our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $2.49 billion , which is an increase of $104.2 million from June 30, 2015 . The increase is primarily attributable to our cash generated from operations and our net proceeds from investing activities, partially offset by the payment of regular quarterly cash dividends and a special cash dividend with respect to fully vested restricted stock units with dividend equivalent rights aggregating to $346.3 million , payment for stock repurchases of $181.7 million and payment of term loans of $135.0 million . As of June 30, 2016 , $1.73 billion of our $2.49 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were held by our foreign subsidiaries and branch offices. We currently intend to indefinitely reinvest $1.57 billion of the cash held by our foreign subsidiaries and branch offices. If, however, a portion of these funds were to be repatriated to the United States, we would be required to accrue and pay U.S. and foreign taxes of approximately 30%-50% of the funds repatriated. The amount of taxes due will depend on the amount and manner of the repatriation, as well as the location from which the funds are repatriated. We have accrued (but have not paid) U.S. taxes on the remaining cash of $157.3 million of the $1.73 billion held by our foreign subsidiaries and branch offices. As such, these funds can be returned to the U.S. without accruing any additional U.S. tax expense. Cash Dividends and Special Cash Dividend: The total amount of regular quarterly cash dividends paid during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 was $324.5 million , 324.8 million and $298.9 million , respectively. The increase in the amount of regular quarterly cash dividends paid during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 reflected the increase in the level of our regular quarterly cash dividend from $0.50 to $0.52 per share that was instituted during the three months ended September 30, 2015. The amount of accrued dividends payable for regular quarterly cash dividends on unvested restricted stock units with dividend equivalent rights was $2.7 million and $0.9 million as of June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We did not have accrued dividends payable as of June 30, 2014 . These amounts will be paid upon vesting of the underlying unvested restricted stock units as described in Note 7, “Equity and Long-term Incentive Compensation Plans.” 51 Table of Contents On November 19, 2014, we declared a special cash dividend of $16.50 per share on our outstanding common stock which was paid on December 9, 2014 to our stockholders of record as of the close of business on December 1, 2014. Additionally, in connection with the special cash dividend, our Board of Directors and our Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors approved a proportionate and equitable adjustment to outstanding equity awards (restricted stock units and stock options) under the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2004 Plan”), as required by the 2004 Plan, subject to the vesting requirements of the underlying awards. As the adjustment was required by the 2004 Plan, the adjustment to the outstanding awards did not result in any incremental compensation expense due to modification of such awards, under the authoritative guidance. The declaration and payment of the special cash dividend was part of our leveraged recapitalization transaction under which the special cash dividend was financed through a combination of existing cash and proceeds from the debt financing disclosed in Note 6, “Debt” that was completed during the three months ended December 31, 2014 . The total amount of the special cash dividend accrued by the Company during the three months ended December 31, 2014 was approximately $2.76 billion , substantially all of which was paid out during the three months ended December 31, 2014 , except for the aggregate special cash dividend of $43.0 million that was accrued for the unvested restricted stock units. As of June 30, 2016 and 2015 , we have $16.9 million and $41.1 million , respectively, of accrued dividends payable for the special cash dividend with respect to outstanding unvested restricted stock units, which will be paid when such underlying unvested restricted stock units vest as described in detail in Note 7, “Equity and Long-term Incentive Compensation Plans.” We paid a special cash dividend with respect to vested restricted stock units during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 of $21.8 million and $1.8 million , respectively. We did not declare any special cash dividend in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2016 and 2014 . Other than the special cash dividend declared during the three months ended December 31, 2014 , we historically have not declared any special cash dividends. Stock Repurchases: The shares repurchased under our stock repurchase program have reduced our basic and diluted weighted-average shares outstanding. The stock repurchase program is intended, in part, to offset shares issued in connection with the purchases under our ESPP program and the vesting of employee restricted stock units. In connection with entering into the Merger Agreement with Lam Research, we suspended further repurchases under our repurchase program effective October 21, 2015. Fiscal Year 2016 Compared to Fiscal Year 2015 Cash Flows from Operating Activities: We have historically financed our liquidity requirements through cash generated from operations. Net cash provided by operating activities during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 increased compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 , from $605.9 million to $759.7 million primarily as a result of the following key factors: • An increase in collections of approximately $294.0 million mostly due to higher shipments during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 ; • A decrease in payroll and employee-related payments of approximately $34.0 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 ; partially offset by • An increase in vendor payments of approximately $65.0 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 mainly due to higher inventory purchases compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 ; • A net increase of realized foreign exchange hedge losses of approximately $48.0 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 , mainly due to the substantial foreign exchange fluctuations in Japanese Yen during these periods; • An increase in debt interest payments of approximately $27.0 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 due to higher average outstanding debt balances compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 ; • An increase in income tax and other tax payments net of tax refunds of approximately $22.0 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 ; and • An increase in cash LTI payments of approximately $13.0 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 . Cash Flows from Investing Activities: Net cash provided by investing activities during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 decreased to $144.7 million compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 from net cash provided in investing activities of $918.2 million , primarily as a result of our strategic decision to liquidate certain marketable securities in our investment portfolio to fund our working capital requirements during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 , partially offset by approximately $14.0 million lower capital expenditures during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 , as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 . 52 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities: Net cash used in financing activities during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 decreased compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 , from $1.30 billion to $636.7 million , primarily as a result of the following key factors: • A decrease in payment of dividends to stockholders of $2.70 billion, primarily from the payment of special cash dividend during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 ; • A decrease in repayment of debt of approximately $781.0 million mainly as a result of the redemption of the 2018 Senior Notes during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 ; • A decrease in common stock repurchases of $421.0 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 . In connection with entering into the Merger Agreement, we suspended further repurchases under our repurchase program effective October 21, 2015; partially offset by • Net proceeds of $3.22 billion from the issuance of Senior Notes and the term loans during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 . Fiscal Year 2015 Compared to Fiscal Year 2014 Cash Flows from Operating Activities: Net cash provided by operating activities during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 decreased compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 , from $778.9 million to $605.9 million primarily as a result of the following key factors: • A decrease of cash collections by approximately $270.0 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 , • An increase of debt-related interest payments of approximately $40.0 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 , • An increase in payments of approximately $15.0 million upon vesting of cash-based long-term incentive (“Cash LTI”) awards during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 under our Cash LTI employee compensation plan, compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 , • An increase in payroll payments of approximately $15.0 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 , partially offset by • A decrease in accounts payable payments of approximately $143.0 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 , and • A decrease in income tax and other tax payments net of tax refunds of approximately $30.0 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 . Cash Flows from Investing Activities: Net cash provided by investing activities during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 increased to $918.2 million compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 from net cash used in investing activities of $676.1 million , primarily as a result of an increase in the proceeds from sale of available-for-sale and trading securities, net of sales and maturities, of approximately $964.0 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 , compared to the purchases of available-for-sale and trading securities, net of sales and maturities, of approximately $593.0 million during fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 . In addition, we acquired a privately-held company for a total purchase consideration of $18.0 million in cash during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014. Cash Flows from Financing Activities: Net cash used in financing activities during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 increased compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014, from $458.9 million to $1.30 billion, primarily as a result of the following key factors: • An increase in dividend payments of $2.74 billion during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014, reflecting the payments for the special cash dividend during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 and an increase in our quarterly dividend payout amount from $0.45 to $0.50 per share that was instituted during the three months ended September 30, 2014, • Payments for redemption of the 2018 Senior Notes and payments for the term loans, including prepayment for the principal amount for the term loans, aggregating to $916.0 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015, whereas no such payments were made during the fiscal year ended June 20, 2014, • An increase in common stock repurchases of $362.0 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 and 53 Table of Contents • A decrease in proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $65.0 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014, partially offset by • Net proceeds of $3.22 billion from issuance of Senior Notes and the term loans during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015. Senior Notes: In November 2014, we issued $2.50 billion aggregate principal amount of senior, unsecured long-term notes (collectively referred to as “Senior Notes”). We issued the Senior Notes as part of the leveraged recapitalization plan under which the proceeds from the Senior Notes in conjunction with the proceeds from the term loans (described below) and cash on hand were used (x) to fund a special cash dividend of $16.50 per share, aggregating to approximately $2.76 billion , (y) to redeem $750.0 million of 2018 Senior Notes, including associated redemption premiums, accrued interest and other fees and expenses and (z) for other general corporate purposes, including repurchases of shares pursuant to our stock repurchase program. The interest rate specified for each series of the Senior Notes will be subject to adjustments from time to time if Moody’s Investor Service, Inc. (“Moody’s”) or Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (“S&P”) or, under certain circumstances, a substitute rating agency selected by us as a replacement for Moody’s or S&P, as the case may be (a “Substitute Rating Agency”), downgrades (or subsequently upgrades) its rating assigned to the respective series of Senior Notes such that the adjusted rating is below investment grade. If the adjusted rating of any series of Senior Notes from Moody’s (or, if applicable, any Substitute Rating Agency) is decreased to Ba1, Ba2, Ba3 or B1 or below, the stated interest rate on such series of Senior Notes as noted above will increase by 25 bps, 50 bps, 75 bps or 100 bps, respectively (“bps” refers to Basis Points and 1% is equal to 100 bps). If the rating of any series of Senior Notes from S&P (or, if applicable, any Substitute Rating Agency) with respect to such series of Senior Notes is decreased to BB+, BB, BB- or B+ or below, the stated interest rate on such series of Senior Notes as noted above will increase by 25 bps, 50 bps, 75 bps or 100 bps, respectively. The interest rates on any series of Senior Notes will permanently cease to be subject to any adjustment (notwithstanding any subsequent decrease in the ratings by any of Moody’s, S&P and, if applicable, any Substitute Rating Agency) if such series of Senior Notes becomes rated “Baa1” (or its equivalent) or higher by Moody’s (or, if applicable, any Substitute Rating Agency) and “BBB+” (or its equivalent) or higher by S&P (or, if applicable, any Substitute Rating Agency), or one of those ratings if rated by only one of Moody’s, S&P and, if applicable, any Substitute Rating Agency, in each case with a stable or positive outlook. In October 2014, we entered into a series of forward contracts to lock the 10-year treasury rate (“benchmark rate”) on a portion of the Senior Notes with a notional amount of $1.00 billion in aggregate. For additional details, refer to Note 15, “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.” The original discount on the Senior Notes amounted to $4.0 million and is being amortized over the life of the debt. Interest is payable semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 of each year. The debt indenture (the “Indenture”) includes covenants that limit our ability to grant liens on its facilities and enter into sale and leaseback transactions, subject to certain allowances under which certain sale and leaseback transactions are not restricted. As of June 30, 2016 , we were in compliance with all of the covenants under the Indenture associated with the Senior Notes. Credit Facility (Term Loans and Unfunded Revolving Credit Facility): In November 2014, we entered into $750.0 million of five-year senior unsecured prepayable term loans and a $500.0 million unfunded revolving credit facility (collectively, the “Credit Facility”) under the Credit Agreement. The interest under the Credit Facility will be payable on the borrowed amounts at the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus a spread, which is currently 125 bps, and this spread is subject to adjustment in conjunction with our credit rating downgrades or upgrades by Moody’s and S&P. The spread ranges from 100 bps to 175 bps based on the Company’s then effective credit rating. We are also obligated to pay an annual commitment fee of 15 bps on the daily undrawn balance of the revolving credit facility, which is also subject to an adjustment in conjunction with our credit rating downgrades or upgrades. The annual commitment fee ranges from 10 bps to 25 bps on the daily undrawn balance of the revolving credit facility, depending upon the then effective credit rating. Principal payments with respect to the term loans will be made on the last day of each calendar quarter and any unpaid principal balance of the term loans, including accrued interest, shall be payable on November 14, 2019 (the “Maturity Date”). We may prepay the term loans and unfunded revolving credit facility at any time without a prepayment penalty. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 , we made term loan principal payments of $135.0 million . 54 Table of Contents Future principal payments for the term loans (without giving effect to $117.5 million of principal prepayments made as of June 30, 2016 that shall be applied to the future scheduled quarterly payments) as of June 30, 2016 , are as follows: Fiscal Quarters Ending Quarterly Payment (in thousands) September 30, 2016 through December 31, 2016 $ 9,375 March 31, 2017 through December 31, 2017 $ 14,063 March 31, 2018 through September 30, 2019 $ 18,750 December 31, 2019 $ 487,500 The Credit Facility requires us to maintain an interest expense coverage ratio as described in the Credit Agreement, on a quarterly basis, covering the trailing four consecutive fiscal quarters of no less than 3.50 to 1.00. In addition, we are required to maintain the maximum leverage ratio as described in the Credit Agreement, on a quarterly basis, covering the trailing four consecutive fiscal quarters for the fiscal quarters as described below. Fiscal Quarters Ending Maximum Leverage Ratio June 30, 2016 through September 30, 2016 3.75:1.00 December 31, 2016 and March 31, 2017 3.50:1.00 Thereafter 3.00:1.00 We were in compliance with the financial covenants under the Credit Agreement as of June 30, 2016 (the interest expense coverage ratio was 9.12 to 1.00 and the leverage ratio was 2.75 to 1.00) and had no outstanding borrowings under the unfunded revolving credit facility. Considering our current liquidity position, short-term financial forecasts and ability to prepay the term loans, if necessary, we expect to continue to be in compliance with our financial covenants at the end of our first quarter of fiscal year ending June 30, 2017. Debt Redemption: In December 2014, we redeemed the $750.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2018 Senior Notes. The redemption resulted in a pre-tax net loss on extinguishment of debt of $131.7 million for the three months ended December 31, 2014 , after an offset of a $1.2 million of gain upon the termination of the non-designated forward contract described below. In addition, in November 2014, we entered into a non-designated forward contract to lock the treasury rate to be used for determining the redemption amount as part of our plan to redeem the existing 2018 Senior Notes. The notional amount of the non-designated forward contract was $750.0 million . For additional details, refer to Note 15, “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.” Merger-related Commitment and Fees: We have an agreement with a financial advisor in relation to the pending Merger with Lam Research. We agreed to pay a fee of approximately $58.0 million, $0.1 million of which was paid upon the execution of the engagement letter and $5.0 million of which was paid upon delivery of the fairness opinion, and the remaining portion of which will be paid upon, and subject to, consummation of the Merger (provided that the final actual fee will be, in part, based on an average of the closing prices of Lam Research common stock over ten trading days approaching the closing of the Merger). During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 , $5.1 million of the above fees were recorded in selling, general and administrative line of the consolidated statements of operations. In addition, the Merger Agreement contains certain termination rights for us and further provides that we may be required to pay a termination fee of $290.0 million to Lam Research under certain circumstances. 55 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following is a schedule summarizing our significant obligations to make future payments under contractual obligations as of June 30, 2016 : Fiscal year ending June 30, (In thousands) Total 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 and thereafter Others Debt obligations (1) $ 3,076,250 $ — $ 250,000 $ 70,000 $ 756,250 $ — $ 2,000,000 $ — Interest payment associated with all debt obligations (2) 946,076 119,053 116,084 112,650 100,976 92,875 404,438 — Purchase commitments (3) 292,937 290,576 2,100 97 — 164 — — Income taxes payable (4) 54,030 — — — — — — 54,030 Operating leases 17,058 8,026 5,006 2,363 1,613 25 25 — Cash long-term incentive program (5) 121,447 47,942 37,085 24,908 11,512 — — — Pension obligations (6) 22,086 1,301 1,487 1,536 1,452 1,664 14,646 — Executive Deferred Savings Plan (7) 162,289 — — — — — — 162,289 Other (8) 43,406 8,917 30,520 3,576 393 — — — Total contractual cash obligations $ 4,735,579 $ 475,815 $ 442,282 $ 215,130 $ 872,196 $ 94,728 $ 2,419,109 $ 216,319 __________________ (1) In November 2014, we issued $750.0 million aggregate principal amount of term loans due in fiscal year 2020 (outstanding balance of $576.3 million as of June 30, 2016) and $2.50 billion aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes due from fiscal year 2018 to fiscal year 2035. During our fiscal year ended June 30, 2016, we made term loan principal payments of $135.0 million . (2) The interest payments associated with the Senior Notes obligations included in the table above are based on the principal amount multiplied by the applicable coupon rate for each series of Senior Notes. Our future interest payments are subject to change if our then effective credit rating is below investment grade as discussed above. The interest payments under the term loans are payable on the borrowed amounts at the LIBOR plus 125 bps. As of June 30, 2016 , we utilized the existing interest rates to project our estimated term loans interest payments for the next five years. The interest payment under the revolving credit facility for the undrawn balance is payable at 15 bps as a commitment fee based on the daily undrawn balance and we utilized the existing rate for the projected interest payments included in the table above. Our future interest payments for the term loans and the revolving credit facility are subject to change due to future fluctuations in the LIBOR rates as well as any upgrades or downgrades to our then effective credit rating. (3) Represents an estimate of significant commitments to purchase inventory from our suppliers as well as an estimate of significant purchase commitments associated with other goods and services in the ordinary course of business. Our liability under these purchase commitments is generally restricted to a forecasted time-horizon as mutually agreed upon between the parties. This forecasted time-horizon can vary among different suppliers. Actual expenditures will vary based upon the volume of the transactions and length of contractual service provided. In addition, the amounts paid under these arrangements may be less in the event the arrangements are renegotiated or canceled. Certain agreements provide for potential cancellation penalties. (4) Represents the estimated income tax payable obligation related to uncertain tax positions as well as related accrued interest. We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years due to uncertainties in the timing of tax audit outcomes. (5) Represents the amount committed under our cash long-term incentive program. The expected payment after estimated forfeitures is approximately $97.9 million . (6) Represents an estimate of expected benefit payments up to fiscal year 2026 that was actuarially determined and excludes the minimum cash required to contribute to the plan. As of June 30, 2016 , our defined pension plans do not have material required minimum cash contribution obligations. 56 Table of Contents (7) Represents the amount committed under our non-qualified executive deferred compensation plan. We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years due to the uncertainties in the timing around participant’s separation and any potential changes that participants may decide to make to the previous distribution elections. (8) Includes $23.8 million of employee-related retention commitments which are estimated to be paid over the stipulated period in connection with the pending Merger with Lam Research as well as the amount committed for accrued dividends payable of $19.6 million , substantially all of which are for the special cash dividend for the unvested restricted stock units as of the dividend record date as well as restricted stock units granted with dividend equivalent rights. For additional details, refer to Note 7, “Equity and Long-term Incentive Compensation Plans”. Starting in fiscal year ended June 30, 2013, we adopted a cash-based long-term incentive (“Cash LTI”) program for many of our employees as part of our employee compensation program. Cash LTI awards issued to employees under the Cash Long-Term Incentive Plan (“Cash LTI Plan”) generally vest in four equal installments, with 25% of the aggregate amount of the Cash LTI award vesting on each yearly anniversary of the grant date over a four-year period. In order to receive payments under the Cash LTI Plan, participants must remain employed by us as of the applicable award vesting date. We have agreements with financial institutions to sell certain of our trade receivables and promissory notes from customers without recourse. In addition, we periodically sell certain letters of credit (“LCs”), without recourse, received from customers in payment for goods. The following table shows total receivables sold under factoring agreements and proceeds from sales of LCs for the indicated periods: Year ended June 30, (In thousands) 2016 2015 2014 Receivables sold under factoring agreements $ 205,790 $ 137,285 $ 116,292 Proceeds from sales of LCs $ 21,904 $ 6,920 $ 8,323 Factoring and LC fees for the sale of certain trade receivables were recorded in other expense (income), net and were not material for the periods presented. We maintain guarantee arrangements available through various financial institutions for up to $22.1 million , of which $18.7 million had been issued as of June 30, 2016 , primarily to fund guarantees to customs authorities for value-added tax (“VAT”) and other operating requirements of our subsidiaries in Europe and Asia. We maintain certain open inventory purchase commitments with our suppliers to ensure a smooth and continuous supply for key components. Our liability under these purchase commitments is generally restricted to a forecasted time-horizon as mutually agreed upon between the parties. This forecasted time-horizon can vary among different suppliers. Our open inventory purchase commitments were approximately $292.9 million as of June 30, 2016 and are primarily due within the next 12 months. Actual expenditures will vary based upon the volume of the transactions and length of contractual service provided. In addition, the amounts paid under these arrangements may be less in the event that the arrangements are renegotiated or canceled. Certain agreements provide for potential cancellation penalties. We provide standard warranty coverage on our systems for 40 hours per week for 12 months, providing labor and parts necessary to repair the systems during the warranty period. We account for the estimated warranty cost as a charge to costs of revenues when revenue is recognized. The estimated warranty cost is based on historical product performance and field expenses. The actual product performance and/or field expense profiles may differ, and in those cases we adjust our warranty accruals accordingly. The difference between the estimated and actual warranty costs tends to be larger for new product introductions as there is limited historical product performance to estimate warranty expense; our warranty charge estimates for more mature products with longer product performance histories tend to be more stable. Non-standard warranty coverage generally includes services incremental to the standard 40-hours per week coverage for 12 months. See Note 12, “Commitments and Contingencies” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. 57 Table of Contents Working Capital: Working capital was $2.87 billion as of June 30, 2016 , which was a decrease of $37.2 million compared to our working capital as of June 30, 2015 . As of June 30, 2016 , our principal sources of liquidity consisted of $2.49 billion of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Our liquidity is affected by many factors, some of which are based on the normal ongoing operations of the business, and others of which relate to the uncertainties of global and regional economies and the semiconductor and the semiconductor equipment industries. Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of these factors, we believe that cash generated from operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash and cash equivalents balances and our $500 million unfunded revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements associated with working capital needs, capital expenditures, dividends, stock repurchases and other contractual obligations, including repayment of outstanding debt, for at least the next 12 months. Our credit ratings and outlooks as of June 30, 2016 are summarized below: Rating Agency Rating Outlook Fitch BBB- Stable Moody’s Baa2 Stable Standard & Poor’s BBB Stable Factors that can affect our credit ratings include changes in our operating performance, the economic environment, conditions in the semiconductor and semiconductor equipment industries, our financial position and changes in our business strategy. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Under our foreign currency risk management strategy, we utilize derivative instruments to protect our earnings and cash flows from unanticipated fluctuations in earnings and cash flows caused by volatility in currency exchange rates. This financial exposure is monitored and managed as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects that the volatility of these markets may have on our operating results. We continue our policy of hedging our current and forecasted foreign currency exposures with hedging instruments having tenors of up to 18 months (see Note 15, “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details). Our outstanding hedge contracts, with maximum remaining maturities of approximately seven months and 16 months as of June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, were as follows: As of June 30, (In thousands) 2016 2015 Cash flow hedge contracts Purchase $ 7,591 $ 32,775 Sell $ 91,793 $ 88,800 Other foreign currency hedge contracts Purchase $ 122,275 $ 64,012 Sell $ 115,087 $ 123,091 58 Table of Contents In October 2014, in anticipation of the issuance of the Senior Notes, we entered into a series of forward contracts (“Rate Lock Agreements”) to lock the benchmark rate on a portion of the Senior Notes. The objective of the Rate Lock Agreements was to hedge the risk associated with the variability in interest rates due to the changes in the benchmark rate leading up to the closing of the intended financing, on the notional amount being hedged. The Rate Lock Agreements had a notional amount of $1.00 billion in aggregate which matured in the second quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 . We designated each of the Rate Lock Agreements as a qualifying hedging instrument and accounted for as a cash flow hedge, under which the effective portion of the gain or loss on the close out of the Rate Lock Agreements was initially recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as a reduction of total stockholders’ equity and subsequently amortized into earnings as a component of interest expense over the term of the underlying debt. The ineffective portion, if any, was recognized in earnings immediately. The Rate Lock Agreements were terminated on the date of pricing of the $1.25 billion of 4.650% Senior Notes due in 2024 and we recorded the fair value of $7.5 million as a gain within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as of December 31, 2014 . For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, we recognized $0.8 million and $0.5 million , respectively, for the amortization of the gain recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), which amount reduced the interest expense. As of June 30, 2016, the unamortized portion of the fair value of the forward contracts for the rate lock agreements was $6.3 million . The cash proceeds of $7.5 million from the settlement of the Rate Lock Agreements were included in the cash flows from operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 because the designated hedged item was classified as interest expense in the cash flows from operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows. In addition, in November 2014, we entered into a non-designated forward contract to lock the treasury rate used to determine the redemption amount of the 2018 Senior Notes that occurred during the three months ended December 31, 2014 . The objective of the forward contract was to hedge the risk associated with the variability of the redemption amount due to changes in interest rates through the redemption of the existing 2018 Senior Notes. The forward contract had a notional amount of $750.0 million . The forward contract was terminated in December 2014 and the resulting fair value of $1.2 million was included in the loss on extinguishment of debt and other, net line in the consolidated statements of operations, partially offsetting the loss on redemption of the debt during the three months ended December 31, 2014 . The cash proceeds from the forward contract were included in the cash flows from financing activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 , partially offsetting the cash outflows for the redemption of the 2018 Senior Notes. Indemnification Obligations. Subject to certain limitations, we are obligated to indemnify our current and former directors, officers and employees with respect to certain litigation matters and investigations that arise in connection with their service to us. These obligations arise under the terms of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, applicable contracts, and Delaware and California law. The obligation to indemnify generally means that we are required to pay or reimburse the individuals’ reasonable legal expenses and possibly damages and other liabilities incurred in connection with these matters. For example, we have paid or reimbursed legal expenses incurred in connection with the investigation of our historical stock option practices and the related litigation and government inquiries by a number of our current and former directors, officers and employees. Although the maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under the indemnification obligations generally described in this paragraph is theoretically unlimited, we believe the fair value of this liability, to the extent estimable, is appropriately considered within the reserve we have established for currently pending legal proceedings. We are a party to a variety of agreements pursuant to which we may be obligated to indemnify the other party with respect to certain matters. Typically, these obligations arise in connection with contracts and license agreements or the sale of assets, under which we customarily agree to hold the other party harmless against losses arising from, or provide customers with other remedies to protect against, bodily injury or damage to personal property caused by our products, non-compliance with our product performance specifications, infringement of third-party intellectual property rights used in our products and a breach of warranties, representations and covenants related to matters such as title to assets sold, validity of certain intellectual property rights, non-infringement of third-party rights, and certain income tax-related matters. In each of these circumstances, payment by us is typically subject to the other party making a claim to and cooperating with us pursuant to the procedures specified in the particular contract. This usually allows us to challenge the other party’s claims or, in case of breach of intellectual property representations or covenants, to control the defense or settlement of any third-party claims brought against the other party. Further, our obligations under these agreements may be limited in terms of amounts, activity (typically at our option to replace or correct the products or terminate the agreement with a refund to the other party), and duration. In some instances, we may have recourse against third parties and/or insurance covering certain payments made by us. 59 Table of Contents In addition, we may in limited circumstances enter into agreements that contain customer-specific commitments on pricing, tool reliability, spare parts stocking levels, service response time and other commitments. Furthermore, we may give these customers limited audit or inspection rights to enable them to confirm that we are complying with these commitments. If a customer elects to exercise its audit or inspection rights, we may be required to expend significant resources to support the audit or inspection, as well as to defend or settle any dispute with a customer that could potentially arise out of such audit or inspection. To date, we have made no accruals in our consolidated financial statements for this contingency. While we have not in the past incurred significant expenses for resolving disputes regarding these types of commitments, we cannot make any assurance that we will not incur any such liabilities in the future. It is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments under these or similar agreements due to the conditional nature of our obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by us under these agreements have not had a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 60 Table of Contents