Q4 2017 Earnings Call

Operator
Good morning. My name is Jaime, and I'll be your conference facilitator. At this time, I would like
to welcome everyone to the Aptiv Q4 2017 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed
on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-
and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call over to Elena Rosman, Vice President of Investor Relations at
Aptiv. Elena, you may now begin your conference.
`Elena D. Rosman, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you. Good morning, Jamie, and thank you for everyone for joining Aptiv's fourth quarter
2017 earnings conference call.
To follow along with today's presentation, our slides can be found at ir.aptive.com. And consistent
with prior calls, today's review of our actual and forecasted financials exclude restructuring and
other special items, and will address the continuing operations of Aptiv. The reconciliation
between GAAP and non-GAAP measures is included in the back of today's presentation and the
press release.
And in addition, the appendix also includes a number of supplemental tables which provide the
historical financials for Aptiv.
Please see slide two for a disclosure on forward-looking statements, which reflects Aptiv's
current view of future financial performance, which may be materially different from our actual
performance for reasons that we cite in our Form 10-K and other SEC filings.Joining us today will be Kevin Clark, Aptiv's President and CEO; and Joe Massaro, CFO and
Senior Vice President. As seen on slide three, Kevin will provide a strategic update for the
business, and then Joe will cover the financial results and our outlook for 2018 in more detail.
With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Kevin Clark.
`Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Great. Thank you, Elena. Good morning everyone, thanks for joining us. This is our first quarterly
earnings call at Aptiv, and I'm excited to report a very strong finish to 2017. Highlights for the year
included: we exceeded our financial commitments; 2017 revenue, operating profit and earnings
per share all finished above the guidance we provided at our Investor Day.
We completed the spin-off of Delphi Technologies ahead of schedule, and received strong
customer endorsement of our more focused portfolio of advanced technologies, reflected by
the record bookings of $19.3 billion. We made significant progress positioning the company for
the future through the acquisitions of Movimento and nuTonomy, organic and inorganic
investments, and the expansion of our automated driving pilots around the globe.
In summary, our 2017 performance reflected very strong execution by the entire team. We'll dive
a little deeper on a number of the key milestones on slide four. 2017 marked another year
successfully executing our strategy. We continue to strengthen our operating capabilities, which
translated into accelerated revenue and earnings growth, and exceeding our commitments to
shareholders.
Sales increased 5%, that's four points over market; operating income increased 7%, excluding
investments in mobility and services. We acquired Movimento and nuTonomy, and made organic
investments in our mobility and services businesses that strengthened our competitive position.
In addition, minority investments in otonomo, Valens, Leddar Tech and Innoviz enhance our
technology portfolio, and help to unlock new commercial opportunities. This past year's success
is in large part the result of the strong foundation that we built, with leadership positions in fast-
growing technology areas, including active safety, where bookings totaled $3.7 billion, that's 2.5
times greater than 2016 bookings of $1.4 billion, supporting greater than 40% forecasted revenue
growth in the years to come.
2017 active safety revenues actually increased 66% to $600 million. Infotainment and user
experience bookings totaled $1.5 billion, reflecting the timing of lumpy customer awards, and
revenues increased 15%, reaching $1.6 billion. Our strong backlog of infotainment and user
experience awards, totaling over $6.5 billion over the last three years, gives us confidence that
the pace of revenue growth will continue at roughly 50% over the next several years. High
voltage electrification bookings increased 12%, totaling $1.4 billion, and 2017 revenues increased
50% to roughly $300 million, and are expected to nearly double in 2018 to over $550 million.
In summary, our strong 2017 operating and financial performance gives us further confidence in
our outlook for 2018 and beyond. The core competencies that are necessary to succeed today
are the building blocks required to solve mobility's toughest challenges in the future. And we
believe we have all the necessary competencies.
Turning to slide five. As I mentioned, Aptiv has been built on a strong foundation of consistently
delivering automotive grade advanced technologies. As vehicles increasingly become a software-
defined platform, we've adapted our portfolio of technologies and capabilities to meet the
demand for more complex software development and systems integration expertise. And as aresult, Aptiv is uniquely positioned to provide the end-to-end solutions required to
commercializing mobility.
We have over 6,000 engineers focused on software development, shipping over 40 billion lines
of code daily, increasing to over 150 billion lines of code in 2020. Vehicles need more computing
power than ever before to enable advanced vehicle features, including increased levels of active
safety and connectivity. And this increased need for high-speed computing platforms sits right in
our sweet spot, allowing Aptiv to leverage its signal and power solutions that enable more
connected vehicle content.
Managing complexity and optimizing vehicle architecture to increase efficiency and maximize
performance is where we integrate systems and we enable new mobility. And lastly, vehicle
connectivity and data are driving a significant change in the automotive industry. And Aptiv's
solutions combine edge computing, over the year analytics, cyber security and a data
marketplace to fully integrate a vehicle into the ecosystem, unlocking the cost reduction
opportunities and new revenue models for both our customers and for Aptiv.
All this requires tremendous execution capabilities, and this is where we excel. Aptiv is uniquely
positioned as a bridge, connecting our customers to more advanced technologies. Coupled with
our systems integration expertise, we're making the future of mobility real.
Turning to the next slide, just as we rebranded the company under Aptiv, a name that represents
our knowledge, adaptiveness and drive, we've chosen new segment names that better reflect
our capabilities and the role each has to play in the future of mobility. These new segment names
do not change the overall operating or financial composition of the segments themselves.
Starting with Advanced Safety and User Experience on the left, formerly Electronics & Safety, we
sometimes refer to the technologies and solutions in this segment as the brain of the vehicle.
We're focusing our deep systems expertise in software and central compute platforms to deliver
advanced safety, user experience and automated driving systems, enabling more connected
content in the vehicle.
This segment includes our active safety, infotainment and user experience, body and security,
and connected services product lines. Going forward, the Mobility and Services Group, which is
being led by Glen De Vos, includes our automating driving software businesses, Ottomatika and
nuTonomy, as well as our data services businesses, Control-Tec and Movimento.
Moving to the right side of the chart, the Signal and Power Solutions, formerly Electrical and
Electronic Architecture, we sometimes refer to the technologies and solutions in this segment as
the nervous system of the vehicle. These segment solutions reflect the increasing significance of
next-gen architectures, requiring high-speed data and high-power electrical distribution to enable
the necessary technologies for the future of mobility.
This segment continues to include our Electrical Distribution business, along with our Engineered
Components business, which includes connectors and cable management products, and has
approximately $1 billion of non-automotive-related revenues. Again, no change in the composition
at the segment level. However, as Aptiv is evolved, the rebranding of our segments more
accurately reflect the role each plays in solving mobility's toughest challenges.
Moving to slide seven. We've amassed some of the most experienced engineering talent in the
world, and as a result, we sit at the forefront of new opportunities to enable and monetize future
mobility.Starting with automated driving, as we look forward, we have a significant opportunity to
monetize our system and technology capabilities, providing mobility players with an advanced
Level 4, Level 5 system like those who are currently operating in every major region of the world.
The development work we're doing with several customers in smart cities will result in more then
150 cars on the road by the end of this year, accumulating almost 2 million miles of experience.
And the work we're doing today on Level 4 and Level 5 systems for mobility providers is being
leveraged in the Level 2 and Level 3 solutions for our traditional OEM customers. And that fact
reflected in the $3.7 billion of active safety bookings last year.
Further, we've made significant progress in the connected services market with our acquisitions
of Control-Tec and Movimento. And by deploying connectivity solutions at all our relevant
products by 2020, we see significant data monetization opportunities ahead as the capabilities
get the right data, effectively analyze it, and translate that data into valuable information for our
customers increases.
Joe will cover in more detail how we're funding a portion of these investments for ongoing
productivity gains in our base business. And as I mentioned, our advanced technology
development work continues to drive new conquest wins today as we help solve some of our
customers' biggest challenges.
Turning to slide eight. In 2017, Aptiv booked a record $19.3 billion in new business awards,
reflecting $7 billion of bookings in the fourth quarter. And you can see on the right side of the
chart, we had significant wins in each business and region, including a conquest infotainment
award with a Chinese multinational customer; a conquest active safety award with an OEM
alliance, another example of a high volume customer award enhancing our overall market
position; a high-voltage mobile charger award from a leading North American electric vehicle
manufacturer; and an architectural award for BYD's high-volume SUV platform in China. Together,
these wins reinforce Aptiv's leadership position in enabling next-generation vehicle features and
functionality, and is further evidenced by our strategic wins with BMW in the quarter, highlighted
on slide nine.
Building on our strategic relationship, as well as the automated driving partnership formed last
year, the teams have been working closely to enhance BMW's functionality, leveraging Aptiv's
leading portfolio of advanced safety and user experience technologies. As a result, BMW
selected our next-gen radar and high-end vision sensor suite, powered by our ADAS multi-
domain controller, the most advanced centralized supercompute platform in production. In
addition, we were selected to provide our patented multilayer display technology, which we
acquired with the PureDepth acquisition just two years ago, becoming the industry's first high-
definition, reconfigurable 3D display in production, transforming the overall in-vehicle experience.
These technologies were all on display at CES, and as evidenced here, are in high demand.
Moving to slide 10. This was our absolute best year at CES yet. As the only company offering
automated rides on the streets of Las Vegas to the general public, we conducted over 400 rides,
leveraging the Lyft Mobility on Demand network, marking our first real-life application of
technology that we've been demonstrating at CES for several years. Feedback was
overwhelmingly positive as we operated 99% of the time in autonomous mode, while the
general public rated the experience a near perfect score.
Customer and government interest reflected a meaningful shift in tone and pace of technology
deployment. Conversations with customers underscored the importance of an integrated and an
optimized approach to vehicle architecture, consistent with what I talked about earlier. These
same conversations reinforce the increasing importance of the fully connected user experience ina more automated vehicle, underscoring the fact that in addition to the development of the
automated driving software stack, that an integrated and optimized architecture, and enhanced
user experience are critical to the successful commercialization of Level 4 and Level 5 automated
vehicles. And we've positioned Aptiv as the only end-to-end system provider of the integrated
brain and nervous system.
So with that, I'll now turn it over to Joe to walk through the financials and our outlook for 2018,
before summarizing at the end and opening it up for Q&A. Joe?
`Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Great. Thanks, Kevin. Morning, everyone. Starting with a recap of the full year financials on slide 11.
Results were ahead of the guidance we provided at Investor Day. With revenue of $12.9 billion, up
5%, with less than 1% market growth, we delivered on our commitment of mid-single-digit growth
above market.
Operating income was $1.6 billion with operating margins of 12.4%, consistent with what we
shared with you at our September Investor Day, when you take into account the lower flow-
through from a stronger euro in the quarter. Earnings per share of $4.64 were up over 10%, and
operating cash flow of $1.1 billion, which included the $310 million unsecured credit resettlement
and approximately $80 million of spin-related costs. Excluding these items, operating cash flow
grew faster than operating income, primarily driven by improvements in working capital.
Turning to slide 12. The fourth quarter was incredibly busy as we successfully executed the spin of
the Powertrain segment, had near record launch activity in new bookings, and delivered ahead of
expectations on revenue and operating income. Aptiv revenues of $3.4 billion, up 4%, were
above our implied outlook as favorable FX and stronger growth in Europe and China more than
offset North American passenger car weakness, which was down 17% in the quarter. And
underlying global vehicle production was up 0.5%, slightly better than expected. We had good
volume growth year-over-year driven by double-digit gains at Advanced Safety and User
Experience despite the unusually strong fourth quarter in China in 2016.
Slide 13 walks our operating income and EPS performance in the quarter, adjusted for the sale of
Mechatronics. Again, these numbers reflect the continuing operations of Aptiv following the spin,
and are better than we anticipated back in September, when we provided the standalone pro
forma financials.
Operating income was $450 million, up 3% as revenue growth and operational performance
more than offset unfavorable price and the impact of higher mobility investment spending, which
we had indicated would ramp over the course of the year. Earnings per share were $1.28, and
reflect an $0.11 headwind year-over-year on tax as last year's rate reflected the tax benefit of
restructuring actions in the prior-year quarter. Neutralized for tax, earnings per share growth
would have been in line with operating income.
Let's move into the segments. Advanced Safety and User Experience revenues grew 19% in the
quarter, consistent with the full year, driven by active safety growth of 69%, reflecting continued
new launches and increased penetration. Infotainment and user experience revenues were up
8% in the quarter, even while lapping strong prior-year revenue growth and launch activity. Both
active safety and infotainment are expected to continue their strong pace of double-digit growth
in 2018.
Operating margins expanded 290 basis points in the quarter, excluding the impact of our mobility
investments, driven by strong volume growth and the lapping of last year's warrantee item.Including these mobility investments, margins were down 20 basis points versus Q4 2016. Our
planned increase in mobility investments totaled approximately $30 million in the quarter and $50
million for the year.
Going forward, we will provide this level of detail to better reflect the improving margin profile of
the underlying business, showing performance both with and without the impact of these
investments. And as a reminder, we remain on track with our plan to spend approximately $140
million in mobility and services in 2018, including the addition of nuTonomy and consistent with
what we guided late last year. In summary, the Advanced Safety and User Experience segment is
well positioned for continued strong growth and operating leverage in 2018 and beyond.
Turning to Signal and Power Solutions on the next slide. Revenues were down 1% in the quarter
and roughly flat for the year, driven by the decrease in North American passenger car production,
which, as I mentioned, was 17% in the quarter, 14% down for the year, consistent with our outlook.
It's important to note, the slowdown in North American passenger car sales, including last year's
cancellation by FCA of several passenger car platforms, primarily impacted our Signal and Power
Solutions segment.
Operating margins were down 70 basis points in the quarter as strong operational performance
was offset by last year's exceptionally strong fourth quarter performance in China. Full year
margins were up 10 basis points, a testament to how our operating model supports margin
expansion even in the face of lower North American pass car volumes and the unfavorable year-
over-year China comps.
Heading into 2018, we expect mid-single-digit revenue growth, driven by new launches and high-
voltage sales growth, yielding stronger operating performance and higher margins.
Slide 16, turning to our expectations for 2018. No change from what we shared at our investor
conference in September. For the year, we expect revenues to be up 5% to 6%, with production
expected to be flat to up 1%, in line with our financial framework of mid-single-digit growth over
market. From a segment perspective, we expect approximately 10% growth in Advanced Safety
and User Experience, and mid-single-digit growth in Signal and Power Solutions.
Operating margins are expected to be in the range of 12.6% to 12.8%, up 20 basis points to 40
basis points, while also investing an incremental $80 million in mobility as we remain relentless on
operating performance and improving our cost structure. Excluding mobility investments, both
segments will expand margins in 2018. This is expected to result in earnings per share in the
range of $5 to $5.20 per share, up 10% at the midpoint, with share count flat year-over-year. And
operating cash flow is expected to be at approximately $1.6 billion, up double-digits over 2017
when normalized for the unsecured credit resettlement. CapEx will be roughly $750 million for the
year.
For the first quarter, revenues are expected to be up 3% at the midpoint or four points above
market on production declines of roughly 1%. We expect 70 basis points to 90 basis points of
operating margin expansion in the first quarter, reflecting improved operating performance, as
well as having lapped higher warrantee expense last year. And EPS is expected in the range of
$1.17 to $1.22, up 10% at the midpoint despite a headwind from a more normalized tax rate of 15%
to 16%.
Turning to the next slide. As always, our team remains laser-focused on improving our cost
structure, both as a means to fund incremental growth investments, and continue our strong track
record of margin expansion and earnings growth. What we've shown here in the left is a walkback in September, with stronger operating performance despite the margin dilutive impact of a
stronger euro.
Moving to the middle, you see the margin walk for 2018, with 20 basis points to 40 basis points
expansion, consistent with our long-term outlook, and benefits from productivity initiatives and
operating performance are partially offset by our mobility investments.
Finally, moving to the right, we expect 100 basis points of margin expansion between 2017 and
2020, and the stranded costs will be substantially eliminated by the end of 2019. And the
adoption of key growth technologies drives faster growth and greater operating margin
expansion out to 2022, leveraging the benefits of our industry-leading footprint, lower corporate
overheads, and a more efficient operation overall.
Turning to the next slide, our business model is enabling us to convert more income to cash. And
as cash flow compounds double-digits, there is no shortage of attractive deployment
opportunities. I want to reiterate, Aptiv will continue to have a disciplined and well-balanced
approach to capital allocation, similar to what you saw from Delphi. We are focused on reinvesting
in our business, both organically and inorganically, while maintaining our investment-grade rating.
Paying a competitive dividend, on M&A, we remain focused on accretive bolts-on similar to
HellermannTyton, which provided attractive end market diversification and technology
acquisitions focused on our Mobility and Services Group, where we have the opportunity to
significantly accelerate the commercialization of new technologies.
In both cases, the pipeline remains full, and we hope to share more with you over the course of
the year. And to the extent we have excess cash, we will be opportunistic in returning it to
shareholders. In summary, we believe effective capital deployment is a major differentiator for
Aptiv, and an important part of our overall investment thesis.
I'd like to turn the call back to Kevin for his closing remarks.
`Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, Joe. We'll wrap up on slide 19. 2017 was another outstanding year. We exceeded our
financial commitments, and executed the spin-off of our Powertrain segment flawlessly and
ahead of schedule, all while enhancing our portfolio of advanced technologies with the
acquisitions of Movimento and nuTonomy, and investments in Valens, otonomo, Innoviz and
Leddar Tech; all which will serve to enhance our competitive position as the demand for ADAS
and automated mobility solutions ramps up.
Looking ahead to 2018, as Joe just mentioned, our outlook includes mid-single-digit revenue
growth above market, reflecting the strength of our technology portfolio and execution
capabilities, and margin expansion, in line with the long-term framework we provided back in
September, with 20 basis points to 40 basis points expansion while continuing to invest for future
growth; all which results in double-digit earnings and cash flow growth, and the ability to sustain
long-term shareholder value creation through efficient and disciplined capital deployment.
So, with that, we'll open up the lines for questions, operator. Thank you.
Q&A
Operator
Our first question comes from the line of Brian Johnson with Barclays. Your line is open.Q - `Brian A. Johnson, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Yeah. Good morning.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Good morning, Brian.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Hey, Brian.
Q - `Brian A. Johnson, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Just a couple of questions. First, in what we used to call EEA and updated to Signal, can you
maybe – and talk about the new bookings and also just a revenue outlook, talk about the different
trends within which one might call traditional wiring harness and connector business, where you
had maybe a new launch, but the platforms aren't radically different, versus some of the more
advanced data-intensive. And in particular, is the core traditional wiring harness business, are you
booking less there when you got like the price or the commodity pass-throughs or other
commercial terms?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, Brian. It's Kevin. I'll start and that then Joe will follow up. So a couple trends that relates to
Electrical Architecture. As it relates to the transition to what we sometimes refer to as a more
sophisticated or smarter architecture, obviously, more business booked, more business being
done with the traditional automotive OEs that have a, let's call it, a higher component of
technology in their overall portfolio. So, who are pushing at the furthest ends of ADAS today, so
whether it be advanced Level 2, approaching Level 3, advanced infotainment or user experience
systems, and increased vehicle connectivity. Most of that activity, quite frankly, is in Europe.
Second and along similar lines, but consistently happening both in the North American market and
the European market, and beginning in the Asian market, is more KSK harnesses, which are
customized harnesses, which are effectively built to match the VIN number and the specific
outfitting of the vehicle, which is a much more complex architecture and an even more complex
supply chain, as you can imagine.
The third piece, I would say, there are a few of the, what I would call, the newer OEs that we've
been deeply engaged and more active as it relates to clean sheet of paper architecture. And
discussions about how we optimize that and how you bring that into production sooner rather
than later.
And then lastly, apologize for rambling, there are a number of other OEs that, I think, is
approaching close to double-digit, where we're spending time talking about that clean sheet re-
architecture of the vehicle, but doing it over a longer period of time, a lengthier period of time.
So, Joe, you should...
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, Brian, within that business...
Q - `Brian A. Johnson, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `Thank you.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
...I think a couple things to note with that business. One, we obviously, and we've talked a lot
about it this year, I think the business did a really good job of weathering the North American pass
car downturn while expanding margins.
We see that flipping next year, so that business returns to probably mid-single-digit growth.
Within there, we also continue to see strong growth in HellermannTyton, both on their industrial
business, as well as their auto, we'd expect them to continue with double-digits.
They've been between 10% or 11% growth per year since we bought them, and we see that
continuing. So, really, I think the story of next year is really just lapsing that passenger car volume
in North America, and you'll see it return to mid-single digits.
Q - `Brian A. Johnson, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Okay. Second question is more kind of longer-term strategic. Looks like great progress, at least
around the ADAS and kind of advanced electronic side with BMW. Can you maybe help us,
especially in light of all the acquisitions you've put in to your effort, kind of where the Intel-
Mobileye partnership you have is, how it relates to what you're doing with autonomy, and what
we saw in automatic and what we saw in Vegas, and then BMW's own joint venture with Intel-
Mobileye, where, of course, Fiat Chrysler has become one of their partners? So, like just are
those kind of moving on parallel tracks, separate but related, sort of the same thing or how
should we think about that?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
There's obviously a lot of activity in and around autonomous driving. So let me start with, we
continue to progress with our partners Mobileye and Intel in the development of the CSLP
platform that will be commercially available in 2019. So, let's start with that.
Where we are having discussions with other OEs, whether it's their interest in the CSLP platform
or it's their interest in doing some portions of that activity on their own, like the BMW partnership,
we're doing all we can, as you can imagine, from a financial standpoint, not to re-create, but to
reuse the technology and the capabilities that we've established. I can't get into specifics at this
point in time.
So, some OEs want more of that, some want less of that. I think there's a direct correlation
between their level of internal technical capabilities, what they've had historically, and how
strategic they view that automated driving stack to be.
Q - `Brian A. Johnson, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Okay. Thanks.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Chris McNally, Analyst, Evercore ISI with Evercore ISI. Your line is open.
Q - `Chris McNally, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Good morning, team, and congrats on a successful spin. Just two follow-up questions forLyft was a big positive. And you mentioned 2019 is a commercial test deployment in a city. That
seems pretty significant given that Aptiv will add a lot more automotive great experience to what
nuTonomy could do by themselves. Could you just elaborate and give a little bit more details?
How many vehicles? Is this highway travel? Will Lyft be contributing significant R&D? Anything that
you can add around some of that – the details around the 2019 program.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. Well, listen, the 2019 program relates to Aptiv. And we're in discussions with multiple
players in the mobility-on-demand space, as well as cities, with respect to deploying vehicles at
Level 4 levels, initially in late 2018, early 2019. By the end of this year, we'll have roughly 150
vehicles-plus on the road. I think I mentioned traveling roughly 2 million miles during the year. And
we'll be doing that through multiple partnerships, whether they be mobility-on-demand players or
they be direct agreements with cities.
Now, one thing it's important, I think, to underscore, and you've heard Joe and myself say this
several time, we're not in the fleet management business. We're not a mobility provider. So it's
our objective to partner with others who are. At the same time, it's really important to advance
the technology and, quite frankly, to monetize the capabilities to get as many vehicles out on the
road as we can nearer-term, whether those are vehicles we're paying for or partners paying for,
to enhance our capabilities and prove out the capabilities.
Q - `Chris McNally, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
That's great. And just a quick follow-up to Brian's question on the production car side. I think
previously, when you first sort of launched CSLP, you mentioned that if an OEM wants to sign up
to the program in somewhat of a turn-key solution, it would aid them in getting to market with an
L4 type car and maybe L3, as I think you talk about 2019 as the first year. Is it fair to say that some
of those discussions have happened, you just can't really announce formal awards? I just think,
because the investment community sort of was prepped for some sort of big award
announcements over the last year, and that just may not be the case, it may be discussions that
are going behind the scenes. I just wanted to get a little bit more color on the award process.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Sure. So, several of those conversations have happened and are happening. As you can imagine,
from an OE standpoint, there's a strategic aspect to this. There's a risk aspect to this. There's a
product portfolio aspect to this. Then, in reality, it's pretty complex, and there's a business model
aspect. So, we continue to be engaged with a number of OEs about both the entire CSLP
platform, as well as portions of the CSLP platform. We've always said, we are about giving our
customers what they want. And the benefit of having the platform is for those who don't have the
capabilities and want to move more quickly, we can provide a more full turnkey solution.
On the flipside, for those that want a portion, having the ability or the understanding of the full
systems allows us to enhance the parts. So, actually, that's one.
I think the second thing, Chris, I'd underscore, one of the things that we've concluded, and it's for
obvious reasons, that you're going to see the acceleration of autonomous driving with the
mobility-on-demand players, quite frankly, sooner than you're going to see it with the traditional
OEs, and that's purely economic. The cost of an automated driving system is, today, relatively
expensive, and the economics are justified by the mobility players to the extent they can either
get the driver out of the car or they can have the driver doing things other than just transporting
passengers or goods.A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, Chris, it's Joe. The one other thing I'd add and we've talked about this before, particularly
on the OE side, as the conversations have evolved, the other thing which we think is very positive
from our perspective is they're now becoming discussions around how to move from active
safety, Level 2 into Level 3, into Level 4. So they're becoming sort of technology roadmap
discussions, which given by 2020, we'll have over 20 or just about 20 active safety customers
providing Level 2, and have the capabilities to do Level 3 and level 4, we certainly think sort of the
technology continuum discussions are going to accrue to our benefit as well.
Q - `Chris McNally, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
That's great. And it allows for a sticky customer as well. Appreciate the color, guys.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from `David Leiker, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. with Baird. Your line is open.
Q - `David Leiker, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. `
Hey. Good morning, everyone.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Good morning, David.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Morning, David.
Q - `David Leiker, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. `
I just want to follow up on the conversation you were just having. As you look at – once upon a
time, there was a view of you go from Level 1 to 2 to 3 to 4 to 5, and then all of a sudden,
everybody jumped to Level 4 and 5, and now, it seems that Level 3 is becoming more prominent.
How internally do you manage that technology roadmap? Are those separate businesses? Are
they parallel past this – how do you manage that?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
The answer is a little bit of both. So our approach is the Level 4, Level 5 is actually separate, that
sits in that Mobility Group with Glen De Vos, and with our autonomous driving team from
Ottomatika and NuTonomy. And they're focused on really Level 4, Level 5 solutions. That's where
all their focus is. However, we have a system set up where they're able to effectively share their
advancements in algorithm and technologies with our traditional ADAS business that resides in
our Advanced Safety and User Experience segment today, that is having discussions withtraditional OE customers, principally around Level 2, Level 3, and some around Level 4. But
they're separate organizations with the ability to share technology.
And the reason they're separate is, one, to make sure that we are focused on advancing that
Level 4, Level 5 capabilities. And then, two, as I mentioned, David, the mobility-on-demand
players today are moving much faster. And we want to make sure that we have an organization
that's effectively focusing on delivering that technology to that customer group.
Q - `David Leiker, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. `
Yeah. That's two different customer bases there. As we look out – I don't know that 2020 is a
timeframe, but if you – what would be your guess in 2025 of that mix for you in terms of revenue
contribution between the Level 3, 3-plus like the ADAS, safety types, incremental approach
versus the mobility-on-demand Level 4, 5?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, David, what we're seeing – so we've been out with – our target is $1 billion in revenue
related to automated driving/mobility, right, the services that come around automated driving.
That number is $1 billion. The way we see it plotting out right now, it's about 50-50. So 50% of
that coming from Level 3 as we migrate our Level 2 plus business into Level 3 opportunities with
OEs, and then targeting $500 million of revenue coming out of mobility-on-demand group.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
And then active safety underneath that, Level 1, 2.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Active safety by then will be well north of $2 billion, probably close to $2.5 billion-plus of business.
Q - `David Leiker, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. `
And that's just Level 1 and 2 or does that include 3?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
That's just Levels up 1 and 2, that's the existing business.
Q - `David Leiker, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. `
Okay. And then, just one small item here. As we look at user experience on the infotainment side,
strong bookings there, strong performance there. If you look at what bookings are being done
today within that space, what do you think your market share is in that today versus what it is
relative to the business that's being delivered today?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
What's our market share today relative to what it will be in the future?
A - `Elena D. Rosman, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Bookings...
Q - `David Leiker, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. `No, no. What it is currently, your credit revenue base, your share there versus the share on what
your bookings are.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. David, that's a hard one. Part of the challenge for that space is you've got some of the
captives in there with low-end audio. I think if you racked it all up and included low-end audio,
we're a top probably seven. I think as you start to focus on the really relevant technologies and
where this is going, low-end audio displays going away. We think the mid systems are going to
push their way down. We clearly see ourselves moving in organically into a top-five position over
the next couple years.
I mean, this MLD booking for us, it's hundreds of millions of dollars of bookings from an
acquisition we did in 2016 for $50 million. The technology is just phenomenal.
Q - `David Leiker, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. `
Okay.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
So again, it's a little bit how you're racking up that market, but if you put the audio in there, we're
probably further down. But where we want to play, clearly, targeting a top-five to top-three
position.
Q - `David Leiker, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. `
Okay, great. Thank you very much. Take care.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC with RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Thanks. Good morning, everyone.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Morning, Joe.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
First question, just a little bit more sort of on 2018. So the 20 bps to 40 bps of margin expansion,
in line with what you talked about previously, but it does show a big sequential improvement from
the first quarter guide. So, I think some of that is the subsiding of the stranded cost, but I was
wondering if you could talk about any of the other sort of puts and takes through the years, and
maybe what your commodity outlook is as well.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `Yeah. So there's – Joe, we've got stranded costs; we're going to lap some warranty in Q1, so
that's going to help the Q1 number. But our mission here is to get stranded costs out for all
intents and purposes by the end of 2019. So, it's a fairly deliberate march. We're starting the year
with about a $90 million, as we talked about in September, about $80 million to $90 million of
stranded costs to get out of the system. So that's where a lot of that comes from. However, we
continue to do a really good job on the manufacturing in the material performance side as it
relates to continued savings.
And as we've talked about, one of the benefits we're getting here are these product lines
coming to scale. Things like active safety getting to $600 million of revenue and it's going to
continue to grow at 40%. That adds efficiencies into the manufacturing plants, adds efficiencies
into the material buy. Very similar with high voltage electrification. We've got that business
growing in $300 million of revenue; it's going to grow well above 50% next year. We've already
booked about $1.4 billion this year. So very strong bookings to revenues. So those product lines
coming to scale help while we continue to bang away at our overall cost footprint, if you will.
And again, doing this in light of investing and being able to fund those additional mobility
investments. Commodities are pretty straightforward. The 2018 guide adds no real significant
changes in there. Copper is the biggest one, but again, that's mostly pass-through. To the extent
we don't pass through copper, we hedge. So that plays around a bit with the topline, but doesn't
really impact performance.
And then I think from a currency perspective, the thing we're obviously watching, the guide has
got a 1.15 euro in there, which was about our average for 2017. Obviously, that looks conservative
relative to where we are today, but that's been bouncing around a bit, so we'll continue to watch
that. But at this point, with where the business is post-spin, the really only focus commodity is
copper. Mindful of resin pricing, but – from an oil perspective, but don't see any challenges there.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
That's helpful. And then just back on the autonomous discussion. You guys have talked about a
couple times now, some nontraditional customers potentially rising up. And you reiterated today
you don't want to be sort of the mobility provider; you want to work with them. But what does
that really look like from, I guess, from the actual vehicles perspective? Is it something like you
showed at CES where you're retrofitting vehicles or is it working with someone else to design
and build those vehicles?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Joe, it's effectively both. I think it's an optimized vehicle. It's both an optimized OE vehicle set up
for Level 4, Level 5 autonomous driving, and then it's a, what I'd call, a custom bespoke vehicle
that can transport more passengers and has a more fully integrated architecture – ADAS stack or
automated driving stack, as well as user experience capability. So, we're actually working on both.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Rod Lache, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. with Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `Good morning, everybody.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Good morning, Rod.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Hey, Rod.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
I'll ask a couple of things, one is, obviously, you ended 2017 with a very strong cash position, $1.6
billion, and you alluded to a pretty solid pipeline of M&A opportunities. Can you just remind us, at
a very high level, how should we be thinking about what your cash target is? So, if we are thinking
out a year or so, what are you kind of managing that down to between the various uses of cash?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Rod, to run the business, call it, $300 million to $400 million of cash, right? So clearly, the cash
balance is strong. As I mentioned in my prepared comments, capital allocation philosophy at Aptiv
hasn't changed. We are – we do have a good-looking deal funnel at the moment, there's a lot of
things on both the Signal and Power Solutions side that we're looking at, and I think – as well as on
the technology side. Those will really unfold over the next couple of quarters.
And again, I think there'll be transactions like HellermannTyton, bolt-on type transactions that both
deepen the capabilities of the Signal and Power Business within auto, but also look at some
adjacent market opportunities. Things like PureDepth, as we mentioned, that's going to complete
homerun as it relates to the bookings with BMW on that technology, so things like that.
And to the extent we get to the point where later in the year, those haven't materialized, the
target control timing, we understand the importance of returning cash to shareholders. The guide
only includes, at this point, keeping share count flat. So we'll – we won't allow creep, obviously, so
we'll be repurchasing to avoid creep. And anything incremental will really be based on, as we get
further through the year, what we see from – actually materializing from of a funnel perspective.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
So, just to clarify, you would think or suggest to us that we should be thinking you exit the year at
$300 million to $400 million, so you have the $1.6 billion plus the free cash flow that you generate
this year to deploy between M&A and share repurchases or – and that kind of thing? Is that
correct?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Yeah, listen, I think – I don't want to call a number that specific. The deals – the types of
transactions we look at take time, particularly on electric architecture space. We're looking at a lot
of what I'll call midsize bolt-ons, they're typically family-owned businesses. They take some time
to cultivate.
So, I wouldn't want to be on record and saying, we're going to have it all buttoned up by
12/31/2018. But as you think about Aptiv, capital deployment hasn't changed from Delphi. Long-
term, we need – on average, we need $300 million to $400 million of cash, and we're going to
work really hard to try to find smart uses for that cash.Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Okay. Thanks. And just switching gears. The shift from passenger car has actually been a tailwind
for the industry broadly, just given richer mix but a bit of a headwind for you, guys, just in part
because of the Fiat Chrysler situation. Can you give us a sense of what your North American
passenger car exposure is now kind of on a run-rate basis? And is that still something that you
would put in the risk bucket?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Listen, it was – FCA, we knew about going into the year, GM took a lot out of pass car, that was
really what we were working through during the year. That business continues to be or looks to
be about 65% SUV and truck in North America, about 35% pass car. As we book business, as we
bid on business, we're very mindful of what pass car platforms, if any, quite honestly, we want to
be on.
So we'd look to continue to pivot – that, certainly, there are some that distinguish themselves
from others, but it's certainly something we watch carefully and are managing through. I think
given what happened last year, at this point, do we have a big risk associated with it. Next year,
no, we really see ourselves lapping that. But it's something we'll continue to manage through,
and quite honestly, it's – again, that business, North American pass car probably took 30 basis
points to 40 basis points of margin out of Signal and Power Distribution in 2017. And the team was
on it, that business was able to expand margins 10 basis points even with that headwind. So
we're laser-focused on it, and we'll continue to manage the business to the extent it comes up
short. Kevin, I don't know if...
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
No, you covered it all, Joe.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Great. And just lastly, could you just talk to us about how you're thinking about conversion on
volume going forward as you're currently configured? The 21% that you did in the quarter, it's a
little bit lower than what the prior configuration was. And for the full year, how should we be
thinking about the cost items and savings items like performance and depreciation versus your
pro forma 2017?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Listen, I think – we used to always talk about volume flow at an 18% to 22% at Delphi
HoldCo. I think it's fair, as Aptiv, we're in the higher end of that range, so call it, 20% to 22%. As
we see volume flow, I think the one other comment I'll make is we're running this business for flat
to up slight production volumes. So when we see things like we did in China in Q4 2016, we'll flow
higher. And our goal is when we see things like North American pass car, is to be able to continue
to expand margins. But I – as a rule of thumb, I'd go to the higher end of the Delphi Holdco range
and call it 20% to 22%.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Okay. And performance and cost items like depreciation versus the pro forma, is the run rate that
we're observing here something that would be sustained into 2018?A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. To some extent, as we talked about, it's going to accelerate a bit just given we lapsed
some of the warranty and get the stranded costs out. And Elena can certainly take you through
the detail there, but I'd be focused – I think you got to be mindful just how you think through
stranded, and she can certainly take you through that.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Right. Okay, got it. Thank you.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah.
Operator
Your next question comes from `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch with Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Your line is open.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Good morning, guys.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Good morning, John.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
If I could – I just have a sort of slightly longer term question, and it's a little bit theoretical, but I
mean Glen and you guys have been talking about as we see more L4 and L5 autonomous drive
vehicles being developed, that you're going to need all new architecture. I'm just curious, if you
think it's sort of the brains and veins and everything that you guys supply to the automakers, what
sort of the magnitude of the increase in potential content per vehicle there could be? I mean, is it
kind of like a 50% number or is this the kind of thing where it could to be a factor of two times to
three times higher potential content for you, guys?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yes. I don't know if I've thought about it from a content – an exact number of content per vehicle
standpoint. I guess, the way we would look at it, and I think it's reflected in the longer term
guidance that Joe talked about at our Investor Day, is accelerated growth and growth over
market. And it's being driven by more software, more data, and solid growth within the vehicle
architecture space.
So, I don't have a content per vehicle factor number to give you. Maybe a way to think about it,
and not quite backing into it, but when you think about active safety and you think about our kind
of Level 4, Level 5, I think Joe and I and the team would tell you, we're seeing a factor change in
active safety revenues and active safety bookings.
So we think you'll continue, for the next several years, see a run rate from a bookings standpoint
that's in the range of, call it, $300 billion-plus, that's in the range that we booked this year in
active safety. We talked about infotainment, it's been a bit lumpy, so we're actually down year-
over-year on the infotainment bookings, but up on revenue. You'll see strong revenue growththere as well. And then I think the smart architecture, the vehicle architecture overlay, we'll see
how that plays out.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, John. If you go back to – and we'll have it revisited you with it offline, if you think about the
architecture business, our view between sort of now and, call it, 2030, is for every $3 of content
that goes into the architecture, we lose about $1 from optimization.
And that's – so we're not exactly on content per vehicle 10 years out. But as we look at the
trends, vehicle architecture has a positive mix that would be higher-end connection systems,
more complicated materials going in for the Level 3. Mass coming out is the one decrement.
And then to Kevin's point, we're going to see additional content from the higher end compute
platforms as well, the integrated content controllers, the multi-domain controllers. But that's – on
the architecture side itself, there is an optimization decrement, but we see the increase of the
different materials and technology far exceeding that, yeah.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
So every one of our major product lines or segments are growing over market, growing over
vehicle production.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. And then maybe just a follow-up to that. I mean, I understand you guys are incredibly
financially disciplined on margins and returns, and great stewards of shareholder capital, but
there is also sort of a view in the market right now for particularly future car technologies that
significant growth, regardless of exact profitability or returns, is being rewarded with high
multiples, whether it be in the private market, as you can see some early-stage companies or
some stuff even in the public markets.
Is there any potential that you might drift away from sort of that returning margin target to get
greater growth, which might reward you with a higher stock price, which might reduce your cost
of capital, and then sort of be somewhat of a – (58:06) circle? Because there's some
consternation in the market right now just in – a barbell of where you guys are valued and where
some slightly high flyers at higher multiples are valued right now.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Listen, I would tell you, there is zero possibility that happens. And that's for multiple reasons,
including experience, and seeing over the long term, companies who pursue growth for growth's
sake and what ultimately happens. I'd say the second and maybe more aligned – directly aligned
with shareholders near-term, from a management team standpoint, over or roughly half our
compensation is tied to expanding return on capital. So there is a direct correlation that affects
myself, my direct reports, their management team, and it's pushed on down, tied to our long-
term incentive plan that really drive the mindset, where it's about increasing and enhancing return
on capital.
And consistent with what Joe has mentioned earlier about us being maniacally focused on our
cost structure and our cash flow generation, all these programs, all these major programs, sized
strategic, we take a look at and we review with the management team before they bid on. And
we give them specific guardrails and guidelines with respect to where they can go. And thediscussion about return on capital, quite frankly, is one of the biggest discussions, and we spend
more time on that, quite frankly, than we even do on the margin expansion discussion, so.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
That's very good to hear. And maybe just one last real quick housekeeping, and I apologize if I
missed this, Joe. I mean, on raw mat headwinds for 2018 and what you're seeing in sort of the
relationship with the automakers on ability and the index pass-through, and all that kind of stuff
with – particularly around copper or other raws that you might be facing some inflation with?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. No change here, John. I mean, our copper is – the pass-throughs are contractual for copper.
So those, again, they – in fact, it can move revenue depending on how fast copper moves. There
are sometimes a little bit of a lag, call it, a quarter and a half to get the inventories for the system.
But beyond that, we're not anticipating any headwinds and have seen no contractual changes,
certainly. And then we're really bound to – again, we watch resin, but that's a distant derivative of
oil, so we were able to manage that, we think, fairly effectively. We've obviously got a big resin
buy, so we buy fairly efficiently. So not a lot of commodity headwinds or risk from anything we
see.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great. Thank you very much.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks.
Operator
Your next question comes from `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC with Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Thanks. At your safety bookings, looks like they significantly accelerated in the fourth quarter from
the $2 billion year-to-date at 3Q. Can you kind of talk about this state of the environment with
quoting activity and kind of what your percentage share of wins of businesses you're looking at
is?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. Listen, I don't have – this is Kevin. I don't have an exact percent share of wins. We tend to
be focused on the higher end – medium to high-end vision, radar and other solutions. Active
safety activity across the customer base, from an opportunity standpoint, has picked up as active
safety penetration rates have increased. I think, as Joe mentioned, a year or so ago, we were at
five customers, I think we're at 10 or more...
A - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
12 then.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `...yeah, in 2017. So we're seeing a significant ramp-up, both with existing customers, as well as
new customers. As I mentioned, I think you'll see a factor change in our bookings on the active
safety space on a going-forward basis. You're going to see a significant increase relative to our
historical average.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, David, our win rate – I mean, it's a little bit like my infotainment response to `David Leiker, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc.. It
depends on what you're scoring. We don't – low-end cameras, those types of things, we really
don't participate in. So if you're in there, the share would be lower. I mean, our teams have been
seeing 90% win rates in the work that we're going after. And we've had a, as you mentioned, a
very strong Q4 and see, I would call it, plus $3 billion booking levels in 2018 and 2019 as – we've
got line of sight to those at this point, so we're feeling very good about that active safety
business. And as I mentioned earlier, a lot of those conversations did bleed into Level 3 plus
autonomous driving.
Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Got it. And then as we think about what you've booked so far, almost $10 billion cumulatively, I
think, on our count, how much of that is more software-related revenue versus hardware?
Understanding it's a package together, but just trying to see how much embedded software
from Aptiv is in that new business bookings for active safety versus software that might come
from a Tier 2, Tier 3.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. It's hard, David. For active safety, I would – it's sort of Ragu, it's all in there. I would tell you,
our view is the software capabilities around things like sensor fusion and such are what's helping
us drive the business. But on the active safety side of the business, it truly is sort of firmware. It's
embedded in there, and it's in the price. So it'd be very hard to split out revenues.
Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Got it. But thinking about from a margin uplift perspective, is it – you're mentioning hardware
vision and multi-domain controllers. How much of those componentries has embedded software
that's coming from your software engineers versus a third party?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, listen, I mean, all of it had some of our software. What we incorporate from a customer or a
customer's third – another third party from a customer is platform dependent, but if you look at
(01:04:26), that's a lot of our software. Audi put some software in there, there's actually some
software from two other – (01:04:35) with someone else, I believe, the TT (01:04:36). So, it's
usually a mix, but in terms of – all of our products have some of our software on them. And we're
the integrator of the other software components. So we tend to be sitting on top and making
sure the software all works together within that control unit.
Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Understood. Thank you.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, David.Operator
Your next question comes from David Lim with Wells Fargo. Your line is open.
Q - `David H. Lim, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Hi, good morning, guys. Just quickly, on the backlog, it looks like where the win rate – it looks like
it declined a little bit for your EA or what you called the EA division in the past. I'm thinking maybe
it's something to do with passenger cars, but can you guys elaborate on that?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, I think year-to-year, David, you got to be – as we've said in the past, there's lumpiness as it
relates to bookings. So I wouldn't read a trend into year-over-year small changes. I'd also
underscore, last year, we had a couple very big bookings, including the GM T1XX program that
obviously had a positive effect in 2016 that didn't reoccur in 2017.
Q - `David H. Lim, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Got you. So, yeah, that's what I was thinking was episodic. And finally, can you give us some color
on the situation with NAFTA and how that would impact you? I know that there's a lot of moving
parts, but some additional color would be very helpful. Thank you.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. A lot of moving parts on NAFTA, David. So, I would tell you, less concerning and less
significant than, call it, border adjustment tax laws if you go six to nine months back. Right now, on
the – there's really two things we're watching on NAFTA. It's that sort of regional value content
and what they do with those percentages. They're talking about bumping it up to maybe as much
as 85%. That is in the ballpark of, what I'd call, additional duties of, call it, maybe $20 million a
year. So, we're watching that, but again, these are what I would call manageable amounts.
The other is the domestic content requirement, if they put one in. What does it mean? That's a
little bit hard to calculate at the moment because unlike the RBC, you can sort of adjust the
percentages and calculate the number. The domestic content is still wide open. I will tell you
though that to the extent which they're talking about, to the extent they include intellectual
property in the domestic content number, it should really not be a big deal for us because that
will allow us to count the value of the software and the sort of the intellectual property we put
into the products that are manufactured in Mexico.
So again, we're way off where we were from a impact of something like a border adjustment tax,
so this is manageable. And if NAFTA was to go poof tomorrow, it's probably nine – which it can,
six months. But if it was to leave, it would probably be, call it, on a full year basis, maybe up to
$100 million of additional duty we'd have to work through.
Q - `David H. Lim, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Got you. Thank you so much.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks.
OperatorYour next question comes from `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. with Citi. Your line is open.
Q - `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Hi, great. Thanks, good morning. So, I just want to go back to the...
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Morning.
Q - `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Good morning. Mobility-on-demand and Robo-Taxi discussions. So, understanding that you don't
want to be kind of a fleet manager or mobility provider. As we think about the race we're seeing
by different players to deploy these vehicles relatively quickly, to the extent that Aptiv's
technology enables one of your partners or customers to get into this race fairly quickly, for
example, like next year, when you planned on deploying, how should we think about the
economics to Aptiv ultimately in these businesses? Is it still limited to the content per vehicle or
could there be other software, other data-related revenue that would maybe be part of the
growth of that network?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, I think the answer to that is depending on the customer relationship or the nature of the
customer agreement, Itay. Our target would be for a customer to use both our AD stack, as well
as our mobility cloud, right, which allows both that customer as well as Aptiv to monetize data,
whether it's on-vehicle data or it's off-vehicle data, whether it's data used by the OE or fleet
manager to optimize fleet performance, or it's data basically bundled and sold to outside third
parties. So our objective would be to target each one of those. That would be the biggest
opportunity.
Q - `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Great. That's helpful. And then just quickly on the 2018 outlook, and I apologize if I missed this.
Joe, did you provide any kind of directional margin commentary for the segments themselves,
some of the puts and takes?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. No, we didn't give specific guidance. Both will be up, excluding that mobility investment in
the active safety and user experience business, and that spend will be about $140 million next
year.
Q - `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Okay, got it. Thanks so much.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities LLC with Guggenheim. Your line is open.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities LLC `
Hi. Good morning, everybody.A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Good morning, Emmanuel.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities LLC `
Just two quick follow-ups for me, the first one is on your bookings, and it's a follow-up to a
previous question. I'm looking at slide eight. Can you maybe just go over again how you think of
that metric and how it relates to future organic growth? I think under the old combined Delphi,
the old rule of thumb was, look, it's growing at a 10% CAGR, therefore, we have high confidence
we keep growing revenues at 5%. Like is it the same way to think about it at Aptiv?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yes. Yeah. Listen, these are programs with lifetime revenues. Programs typically start at Aptiv, call
it, two to three years out versus at Delphi with the Powertrain business, it would be three to four
years out. We would assume if you can consistently grow 10%, there's the possibility that there's
some leakage in those bookings or adjustments to FX or shifts in program, that it gives us
confidence that we can grow at roughly five points over market.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Emmanuel, the only thing I'd add to that is that's a CAGR over time, right? So I wouldn't
react to necessarily one year, we grow bookings 12%, the next year, we grow bookings 7%. That's
over – we did that analysis, you're right, a couple years ago, and that was over time. So it's not a –
this year, that changes over time. So, we're – and again, bookings are very lumpy for us. So it's a
good metric as a CAGR over – 10% is a good CAGR over a 5-year plus sort of period.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities LLC `
Understood. And then just one additional follow-up. You're expecting some pretty decent growth
acceleration in the, I guess, electrical business. Can you talk about the cadence of that in 2018?
Are we going to see it already straight in Q1?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. It will be lower in Q1 and ramping up throughout the year. I think it's actually Q1 flat to slightly
down, quite frankly, and then ramping up to the kind of mid-single-digit growth level for the full
year.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
(01:12:25) the way to think about is just – it's how we cover the pass car comp. And that
accelerated towards the back half of 2017, so that's sort of where you see the delta coming.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities LLC `
Great. Thanks for the color.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, Emmanuel.
OperatorYour next question comes from `Steven Fox, Analyst, Cross Research LLC with Cross Research. Your line is open.
Q - `Steven Fox, Analyst, Cross Research LLC `
Hi. Good morning. Just one question for me, please. Could you – it's good to hear that you're
staying disciplined to your profit targets that you laid out in the fall. One of the things that seems
to have changed in the last, I don't know, even just the last month or so, has been the ramp-up in
expectations for vehicle miles for – autonomous vehicle miles from limo and Uber that are going
to be driven this year. You guys are talking about $2 million on 150 vehicles by the end of the year.
Can you just talk about how you manage that profit expectation versus what seems to be sort of
the bigger entrées around getting autonomous vehicle data from road tests as we go through
2018 and into 2019?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. Listen, – yes. No, listen, that's a great question, it's a very fair question. We have a specific
business plan tied to our Mobility group, tied to our autonomous driving activity. And that ties to
the resources, whether it be people, vehicles and activities that we're willing to commit to. And
based on those dollars spent, there are key milestones that need to be delivered as it relates to
advancement in technology and customer interactions. So we are very, very focused on, as Joe
mentioned early, managing our cost structure, using as much of the internal funding as we can
through cost reductions to support investment in future growth opportunities. And then taking
those future growth opportunities where we can and apply those newer technologies to near-
term commercial opportunities like active safety. So it's just a very disciplined approach. We
manage it just like we manage any other business. We know we have financial commitments, we
have margin targets, we have a return on capital targets, and we operate to those.
Q - `Steven Fox, Analyst, Cross Research LLC `
So is there possibilities that, say, there was pressure on you to gather more data more quickly,
that you could reach some kind of financial partnerships or would it totally be related to Aptiv's
spend in the near term?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Listen, we're focused on how do we maximize return on capital and shareholder value. So to the
extent opportunities like that need financial funds, those are certainly things that we'd evaluate.
Q - `Steven Fox, Analyst, Cross Research LLC `
Fair enough. Thank you so much.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Colin Langan, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC with UBS. Your line is open.
Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Thanks for taking my question.A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Hey, Colin.
Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
I just have a couple quick ones. Any guidance on the $140 million in mobility investment post
2018? Is that a good run rate or does it continue to expand from there?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. It will expand – it won't expand at the percentage that it did between 2017 and 2018, but
we'd expect that to grow. But again, to Kevin's comment, it will grow within that financial
framework of the 20 basis points to 40 basis points margin expansion, so.
Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Got it. And then, just lastly, I know you've already indicated there's no change from the U.S. tax
reform to your tax rate. Is there any long-term impact? Does this help you at all? Would your rate
have gone up in the future or essentially, there's really no long-term impact either? Just trying to
think about if there actually would've been a help if that got through.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. There's always gives and takes in taxes. U.S. tax rate – lower U.S. tax rate's helpful, but
we're not – just given the way we're set up, we're not a big U.S. tax payer. So it just doesn't move
it significantly. And I think the way we're focused at the moment is how to make sure that 15% to
16% stays sustainable. And for us, we treat tax like we treat every other cost in the place. We're
trying to figure out how to manage it, and we think we got better uses for cash. So we're always
working it, so there's a lot of ins and outs there.
Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Okay. All right. Thanks for taking my question.
Operator
There are no further questions at this time. I will turn the call back over to the presenters for any
closing comments.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Okay. Well, listen, thank you, everybody, for your time. We greatly appreciate it, and have a great
day.
Operator
That concludes the Aptiv Q4 2017 earnings conference call. Thank you for joining. You may now
disconnect.