Q4 2018 Earnings Call

Operator
Good morning. My name is Amy, and I will be your conference facilitator today. At this time, I
would like to welcome everyone to the Aptiv Q4 2018 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have
been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will
be a question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call over to Elena Rosman, Vice President of Investor Relations. Elena,
you may begin your conference.
`Elena Doom Rosman, Vice President-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Amy. Good morning and thank you everyone for joining Aptiv's fourth quarter 2018
earnings conference call. To follow along with today's presentation, our slides can be found at
ir.aptiv.com. And consistent with prior calls, today's review of our actual and forecasted financials
exclude restructuring and other special items and will address the continuing operations of Aptiv.
The reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP measures for both our fourth quarter financials
as well as our outlook for the first quarter and full year 2019 are included in the back of today's
presentation and in the earnings press release.
Now, turning to slide 2 for a disclosure on forward-looking statements which reflects Aptiv's
current view of future financial performance which may be materially different from our actual
performance for reasons that we cite in our Form 10-K and other SEC filings.
Joining us today will be Kevin Clark, Aptiv's President and CEO; and Joe Massaro, CFO and
Senior Vice President. Kevin will provide a strategic update on the business and then Joe will
cover the financial results and our outlook for 2019 in more detail.
With that, I would like to turn the call over to Kevin Clark.`Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, Elena. Good morning everyone. I'm going to begin by providing an overview of the fourth
quarter and full year, highlight several of our key 2018 milestones, and provide some perspective
on how we're thinking about end markets for 2019. Joe will then take you through our 2018
financial results as well as a more detailed outlook for 2019.
I'm pleased to report a strong finish to 2018, a testament of Aptiv's ability to drive sustained
outperformance even in a more challenging end market. Revenue, operating profit, and earnings
per share all finished above the guidance we provided in October. For the full year, revenue of
$14.4 billion represents 10 points of growth over market, reinforcing the strength of our portfolio
of advanced technologies aligned to the safe, green and connected mega trends. The strength
of our technology portfolio also resulted in record new business awards totaling $22 billion for the
full year, exceeding our prior year record of $19.3 billion. Our 2018 financial performance also
validates the robustness of our business model that can deliver in any environment and is
positioned for solid through-cycle performance.
As we kick off the new year, we remain laser-focused on delivering value to our shareholders.
Given the current macro and geopolitical environment, we believe it's prudent to be balanced in
our 2019 planning assumptions which we'll cover in more detail shortly. However, we're confident
that the long-term fundamentals of our business remain intact and I've never been more
confident and excited about our future as Aptiv is perfectly positioned to capitalize on the trends
driving Auto 2.0 and deliver sustainable revenue and earnings growth while continuing to invest in
our future.
Turning to slide 4, building a strong sustainable business that makes the world more safe, green
and connected is a focus of our management team. We made significant progress executing on a
number of strategic fronts in 2018. First, we had very strong revenue growth over market and
record customer new business awards, giving us confidence in our revenue growth outlook and
reinforcing that we have the right software, compute, and systems integration capabilities
required to help our customers adopt higher levels of advanced safety, electrification and
connectivity.
Second, our record cash flow generation and disciplined capital deployment reinforced our
strategy for long-term shareholder value creation. We funded both organic and inorganic growth
initiatives, including additional capacity to support our strong backlog of active safety business
awards, investments to fund the further development of our automated driving capabilities,
smart vehicle architecture and connected services, and the acquisitions of KUM and Winchester
Interconnect, further establishing Aptiv as a market leader in engineered components.
In addition, we repurchased $0.5 billion of stock, over half of which was in the fourth quarter,
taking advantage of market disconnects over the course of the year. So in total, we returned over
$700 million to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
Moving to the far right of the slide, as always, we remain maniacal about our cost structure,
constantly working to improve the competitiveness of our business model and lower our
breakeven, increase the flexibility of our cost structure, and be in a position to fund the
incremental growth investments while delivering earnings and cash flow growth. While we've
been on this journey for some time, our focus on continuous improvement means we're never
finished. Our DNA is wired to naturally focus on delivering material and manufacturing efficiencies
and also reduce overhead costs. $50 million of overhead and training costs related to the
powertrain spinoff were actually eliminated during 2018.Further, our engineering resources are critical to executing on our pipeline of new business
awards. Our continued focus on maximizing engineering efficiency and effectiveness with agile
methodologies, reusable software platforms, and other tools allows us to expand our capabilities
in software, artificial intelligence, machine learning, and systems engineering faster than we've
grown engineering spend. In summary, our continuous improvement mindset is helping us
improve operational efficiency while allowing us to meaningfully invest in our future.
Turning to slide 5, you can see fourth quarter new business bookings totaled $6.5 billion, bringing
the 2018 total of $22 billion well above 2017's record of just over $19 billion. As I mentioned, these
bookings are the direct result of our widening competitive moat in several advanced
technologies across both Advanced Safety and User Experience and Signal and Power Solutions.
Beginning with active safety where we won $3.9 billion of new customer awards, topping last
year's record of $3.7 billion, these awards include multiple scaleable Level 2-plus programs
leveraging our unique satellite architecture, active safety domain controller, and perception
systems.
Infotainment and user experience customer awards totaled $2.8 billion driven in part by our
integrated cockpit controller solutions, reinforcing our leadership position in central compute.
Engineered components booked $6.5 billion of new customer awards, including $1 billion in high-
voltage connectors, bringing 2018 high-voltage electrification awards to $2 billion, double the
amount from the prior year. Our continued momentum in new business bookings validates our
ability to leverage the unique brain and nervous system, or the software and hardware
foundation, that we've created and that enables new features and functions while optimizing the
total system cost of the vehicle.
Turning to segment highlights and Advanced Safety and User Experience on slide 6, sales for the
fourth quarter were up 12%; that's 14 points over market. Continued strong consumer demand for
active safety and infotainment solutions drove revenue growth of 54% and 8%, respectively. As
the need for more complex software development and systems integration expertise increases,
our unique ability to offer highly functional optimized solutions has driven several of our 2018 new
business awards, including six new central compute awards in 2018 across multiple domains,
including active safety, infotainment as well as body, chassis, and propulsion, bringing our
collective total customer awards to 11.
The most recent example shown here is our conquest win with PSA for scaleable active safety,
leveraging our satellite architecture solution, which is being deployed across multiple vehicle
makes and models, and represents our seventh such award in active safety. Finally, operating
margins expanded 170 basis points for the year, excluding the impact of mobility investments,
demonstrating the benefits of our competitive positioning and our cost structure.
Turning to slide 7, our Signal and Power Solutions segment is focused on next-generation vehicle
architectures, including high-speed data and high-power electrical distribution, to enable
advanced technologies that will shape the future of mobility. For the quarter, sales increased 6% –
that's 9 points over market despite the weakening macros – driven by over 50% sales growth for
high-voltage electrification products and very solid double-digit growth for engineered
components. Underscoring our industry-leading position in vehicle architecture, we were recently
awarded the high-voltage electrical architecture on the Jeep Grand Cherokee. This high-value,
high-volume award validates the increasing need for optimized high-voltage architecture across a
full range of vehicle types.
In 2018, high-voltage electrification revenues approached $300 million. That's up over 60% year-
over-year, making it one of our fastest growing and most profitable product lines. Based on thevalue of our new business bookings, this product line should reach over $1 billion of revenues in
2022, representing a 40% compounded growth rate over that period.
In summary, given the breadth and depth of our portfolio in both segments, we are perfectly
positioned to benefit from the convergence of Auto 2.0 trends, and we are confident in our
ability to continue to grow revenues in excess of the underlying market.
Given the more challenging macro landscape heading into 2019, on slide 8 I'd like to provide
some context for the key assumptions that underpin our vehicle production outlook for the year.
As we look ahead to 2019, we expect to see continued softening of vehicle production around
the world. At a global level, we expect vehicle production to be down 2.5% for the full year and
down 4% in the first half.
From a regional perspective, I'll start with China, as I know it's top of mind for many of you. We
expect vehicle production to decline 11% in the first quarter and 8% for the full year. And while we
will continue to experience strong revenue growth over market in this region, driven by double-
digit growth in our key product areas including active safety, infotainment, and high-voltage
electrification, we're preparing for structurally lower industry volumes going forward. As a result,
we're being prudent from a cost structure perspective. We've reduced salary costs in this region
by almost 10%.
Turning to the other regions, we expect low-single digit production declines in North America and
Europe. However, similar to China, we also expect revenues to grow in excess of vehicle
production given our new launch cadence and market share gains. Finally, as Joe will outline in
more detail shortly, we expect our portfolio of safe, green and connected technologies and
balanced regional, customer, and platform mix to more than offset the industry macros
contributing to strong growth over market once again in 2019.
Before I turn it over to Joe to go through the numbers, I'd just like to highlight another great year
at CES. As we've done in the past, we provided automated rides on the streets of Las Vegas,
accumulating nearly 10,000 autonomous miles just during the week of CES alone. While a
number of our customers, our investors, and our partners took advantage of our vehicles to
transport them to destinations in and around the Strip, Downtown or to and from the airport, we
also supported our normal operations for the general public. And since its launch earlier last year,
we've conducted over 30,000 rides on the Lyft network, receiving a near-perfect 4.95 star rating
out of 5, underscoring the quality of the ride experience. Further, at our pavilion we gave
customers as well as investors a look at the advanced software and hardware architectures that
are enabling the safe, green and connected solutions our customers are demanding.
In total, we had over 100 customer meetings and hosted a number of senior executive customer
VIP visits which underscored the increasingly strategic role Aptiv plays in delivering fully integrated
and optimized vehicle architectures. Our technology display showcased our value-add across the
full vehicle stack, from perception sensors or perception systems to cloud, with unparalleled
strength in advanced safety, the in-cabin experience, data services, and autonomous solutions.
As complexity increases, our customers appreciate that getting the architecture right today is
critical to delivering the feature-rich, highly automated vehicles they need in the future. As a
result, we've positioned Aptiv as the only integrated provider of both the brain and the nervous
system of the vehicle, capable of conceiving, specifying, and delivering the advanced
architectures, making the future of mobility real.
So with that, I'll hand the call over to Joe to take us through the fourth quarter and full year results`Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Great. Thanks, Kevin, and good morning everyone. Starting with a recap of the fourth quarter
financials on slide 10, revenue, operating income, and earnings per share came in at the upper
end of the guidance we gave back in October. We saw strong sales growth in the quarter –
revenue of $3.6 billion, up 8% or 11 points above vehicle production – reflecting the continued
ramp of new program launches in both Advanced Safety and User Experience and Signal and
Power Solutions.
EBITDA and operating income of $600 million and $430 million reflected the benefits of strong
volume growth, partially offset by FX and commodity headwinds and investments in future
growth. Earnings per share were $1.34, up 5%, $0.13 above the midpoint of our guidance. The
combination of higher operating income and a slightly lower share count drove roughly half of the
EPS beat, while the lower than expected tax rate contributed $0.07 of upside in the quarter.
Lastly, operating cash flow was $750 million, reflecting earnings growth and favorable working
capital performance.
Turning to slide 11, the continued strong launch volume we've had over the past year drove
double-digit growth over market which helped to offset the decline in vehicle production,
unfavorable price, and the FX commodity headwinds. From a regional perspective, we saw strong
growth over market in all major regions of the world despite weakness in Europe and China
markets. North America sales were up 16 points over market, benefiting from multiple new
platform launches in both segments and the addition of Winchester Interconnect. Europe saw 8
points of growth over market driven by continued active safety and infotainment ramp-ups. And
China grew 9 points over market, partially offsetting lower than expected production volumes.
Slide 12 walks our operating income performance year-over-year. Operating income of $430
million was down 4%, up 3% when adjusted for FX and commodities. Tariffs in the quarter were
approximately $5 million. Our operational performance continues to fund investments in our key
growth areas, including high-voltage electrification, active safety, infotainment, and mobility.
Margins adjusted for FX and commodities were 12.5%, reflecting volume conversion on strong
sales growth offsetting unfavorable price and the impact of higher mobility investment spending.
Strong operating performance yielded higher earnings per share in the quarter as shown on the
walk on slide 13. Earnings per share of $1.34 was up 5% year-over-year including a $0.12 headwind
from FX and commodities in the quarter offset by strong volume conversion, operational
performance, favorable tax, and other income. For the year, our tax rate was 14.3%. 2019 is
estimated in the range of 14% to 15%. And we believe this range, an improvement from our prior
long-term guidance of 15% to 16%, is sustainable driven by our recent footprint and portfolio
actions.
Moving to the segments on the next slide, for the quarter Advanced Safety and User Experience
revenues grew 12% driven by new launch volumes and continued strong growth in active safety,
up 54%, and infotainment and user experience, up 8%. Operating income grew 10% before the
impact of higher mobility investments driven by the accretive benefit of volume growth as well as
improved material and manufacturing performance. Our mobility investments for the full year
totaled roughly $160 million, funding development of our next-generation automated driving
software which will be launched with our new vehicle platform early this year. This represented an
increase of $100 million year-over-year, consistent with our previous outlook, and for 2019 we
continue to expect mobility investments of approximately $180 million. In summary, another
strong year of revenue and operating leverage in the Advanced Safety and User Experience
segment.Turning to Signal and Power Solutions on the next slide. For the quarter, revenues were up 6% or
9 points over market driven by new program launches in North America, robust commercial
vehicle sales, and strong growth in high-voltage electrification despite lower vehicle production
globally. Operating income adjusted for the dilutive impact of FX and commodities grew 4%. As
we have discussed, the margin rate in 2018 was unfavorably impacted by FX and commodities
headwinds related to both the translational and transactional effects of the weaker euro and
Chinese RMB in the back half of the year. We expect these headwinds to continue into the first
half of 2019 and have been contemplated in our outlook for Q1 which I'll cover in more detail in a
moment.
Now, turning to slide 16 for a recap of the full year financials. Revenue, operating income,
earnings, and cash flow all came in above the midpoint of guidance we set back in February 2018
despite macro challenges in the second half, including lower global vehicle production and
unfavorable FX and commodities. That's a testament to the robustness of our business model
and reinforces the progress we've made on both our portfolio positioning as well as our
operational efficiency to build a more sustainable business and prove our through-cycle resiliency.
Turning to the next slide, the core tenets of our long-term financial framework remain unchanged
and we expect comparable performance again in 2019 before the impact of tariffs which I'll
address in more detail shortly. Revenue and earnings growth are being driven by our portfolio of
relevant technologies and their ability to sustain above market growth. Our flexible and efficient
workforce along with our relentless focus on operating performance continually improves our
cost structure. This enables us to fund investments in key growth areas as well as continue our
track record of sustainable earnings growth. The operating income walk on the right lays out the
puts and takes for the year.
Volume from record 2018 launches will continue into next year, more than offsetting lower vehicle
production as Kevin referenced earlier. Our annual pricing headwinds are 2%, in line with our
historical run rate. Based on current estimates, we expect to see an unfavorable year-over-year
impact from FX and commodities. Our material and manufacturing productivity and our cost
reduction actions will more than offset higher engineering investments and inflation. And lastly,
we're addressing the U.S.-China tariffs directly. With our mitigation strategies already underway,
we now expect tariff cost to be roughly $60 million in 2019. As a result of our long-running focus
on cost and productivity improvements, we're confident we can continue to grow earnings at the
forecasted volume levels.
Turning to the next slide for our 2019 guidance. For the year, we expect revenue to be in the
range of $14.6 billion to $15 billion, up 6% at the midpoint despite global vehicle production down
2.5%, with growth over market of over 8%. Looking at the segments and starting with Advanced
Safety and User Experience, we expect near-double-digit revenue growth in 2019 driven by
continued strength in active safety, up 45%. And as we previewed last year, infotainment and
user experience revenues will grow mid-single digits, lapping strong launch volumes in 2018 as
we prepare to launch our next-gen integrated cockpit controller in 2020. In addition, we will see
the roll-off of the display audio product line in the first half of 2019, impacting year-over-year
growth. In Signal and Power Solutions, we expect mid-single-digit revenue growth again in 2019
driven by continued growth across the segment and the accretive benefit of recent acquisitions.
Operating income is expected to be $1.82 billion, at the midpoint, before the impact of tariffs.
And as a result, we expect earnings per share in the range of $5.45 to $5.65 per share excluding
tariffs, up 6% at the midpoint, with share count flat year-over-year; with cash flow of $1.7 billion, up
mid-single digits over 2018.As it relates to tariffs, we are looking at those as discrete items from a mitigation perspective and
are in the process of executing a number of actions that will reduce tariff exposure going into
2020. As a result, we estimate our U.S.-China tariff exposure to be approximately $60 million in
2019, reflecting the work that's been done to reduce the $75 million exposure we previously
communicated. Tariffs will primarily impact Signal and Power Solutions, approximately $50 million
of the $60 million, with the remainder in Advanced Safety and User Experience.
For the first quarter, revenue is expected in the range of $3.4 billion to $3.5 billion, up 1% at the
midpoint or 5 points of growth over market, given our outlook for global vehicle production down
4% with China production down 11% in the quarter. Operating income and EPS before tariffs are
expected to be $345 million and $1.03, at the midpoint respectively, reflecting the impact of a
slowdown in China and the FX and commodity headwinds I mentioned previously as well as
higher engineering and mobility spend. Tariffs for the quarter are estimated to be $10 million.
In summary, for 2019, despite the reduction in vehicle production, with our portfolio of relevant
technologies we will continue to outgrow the market and we will continue to invest in the future
growth of our key product lines. As Kevin mentioned, we do this through our relentless focus on
improving our cost structure, positioning assets to continue to grow earnings and cash flow even
in a down production environment.
Turning to slide 19 and as Kevin highlighted earlier, in 2018 we again executed on our capital
deployment strategy to create value for shareholders. We invested in the business to support our
strong bookings growth and fast-growing product lines such as active safety and electrification.
We invested $1.2 billion in accretive bolt-on acquisitions, KUM and Winchester, which expanded
the geographic and end market diversification of our Signal and Power Solutions business. And
lastly, we returned over $700 million to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends in
2018, bringing total cash to shareholders to over $6 billion since our IPO.
Looking forward, we'll continue to main a consistent and well-balanced approach to capital
allocation aligned to our strategic framework, focusing on reinvesting in our business both
organically and inorganically while maintaining our investment grade credit rating and paying a
competitive dividend. Our M&A strategy focuses on accretive bolt-ons which provide attractive
end market diversification as well as advanced technologies that accelerate speed-to-market and
also provide access to new markets. And to the extent that we can take advantage of market
disconnects, we will be opportunistic in our share buyback and returning cash to shareholders. To
this end, today we announced a new $2 billion share repurchase authorization, incremental to the
roughly $500 million remaining on our current authorization.
In summary, we believe effective capital deployment is a major differentiator for Aptiv and an
important lever for shareholder value generation. And with that, I'd like to hand the call back to
Kevin for his closing remarks.
`Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, Joe. Let me wrap up on slide 20 before opening up for Q&A. 2018 was a great first year
for Aptiv where we delivered on our financial commitments for revenue, operating income,
earnings per share, and cash flow even in a more challenging macro environment. Our
performance underscores the journey we've been on to prove our through-cycle performance by
having the right portfolio of advanced technologies, enabling the safe, green and connected
solutions our customers are increasingly demanding; the right cost structure driving earnings and
cash flow growth while continuing to invest in our future; and the right people and processes to
deliver the innovation and execution inherent in our strategy.Looking ahead, the senior management team has never been more confident in our competitive
position and excited about our future. Aptiv is perfectly positioned to continue capitalizing on the
key global Auto 2.0 mega trends, driving increased vehicle content and market share gains.
We've done this while improving our cost base which gives us great confidence in our outlook for
2019 and beyond. We remain laser-focused on delivering value to our shareholders today,
building upon our strong track record of value-enhancing and balanced capital deployment. As a
result, we have a more predictable and sustainable business model with robust downturn
resiliency, better-positioned to perform in any macro environment.
With that, let's open the line up for Q&A.
`Elena Doom Rosman, Vice President-Investor Relations `
Operator, we'll now take our first question.
Q&A
Operator
. Your first question comes from the line of `Dan Galves, Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC with Wolfe Research. Dan, your line is
open.
Q - `Dan Galves, Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC `
Hey. Thanks and good morning and thanks for taking my question. Regarding China, it looks like
you guys expect to underperform the market in Q1 and then significantly outperform over the
course of the year. Can you talk a little bit about what's going on in Q1 and what's going to turn
that around in the next three quarters?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, Dan. It's Kevin. Why don't I start and Joe can certainly augment my response. Really, when
you look at China and our growth overall in the market in China in the first quarter, it comes down
to specific OE mix and specific platform mix within OEs. So there are a couple OEs that we're
seeing significant schedule reductions during the first quarter that the net result of that is our
revenue dropping below market. And as we look at the go-forward schedules, Q2, Q3 and
beyond, we actually see some of that activity, one, lapping; two, new launches; and just, three,
more stabilization of those production schedules on those particular platforms. So there are three
or four OEs that we're seeing fairly significant reductions in schedules for Q1.
Q - `Dan Galves, Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC `
Okay, got it. And then just following-up on that, do you think some of this is related to inventory
destocking in Q1? And I guess, like, are you counting on big launches in the balance of the year
and kind of have you heard anything about delays in launches or anything like that?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
I would say no major launches from a volume standpoint; continued strong growth in active
safety, vehicle electrification, infotainment, and user experience. But we experienced that
throughout, quite frankly, 2017 and 2018 so that's just a continuation.
With respect to the schedules, both Q4 and Q1, certainly a significant portion of that is tied to
inventory rebalancing or inventory reduction. As you know, visibility to inventory levels in China isconsumer demand aspect that's taken place over the last two quarters. But having said that, as
you look at Q2 through Q4 it's not as though we're betting on or planning on significant launch
programs.
And with respect to delays in that market, quite frankly we haven't seen any. So it's really been
volume schedules on existing platforms, principally passenger car platforms.
Q - `Dan Galves, Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC `
Got it. Thanks a lot, Kevin.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Spak with RBC Capital Markets. Joe, your line is
open.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Thanks. Good morning everyone. Joe, maybe just, first, a little bit of a clarification. Like, if I look at
slide 11, adjusted growth of 8%, it looks like the acquisitions are maybe in that volume number. So
I was wondering if you could call out how much that added and then also how you're feeling with
the acquisitions and your 8% growth over market guidance for 2019.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Joe, they're smaller deals. They're in there, particularly KUM. That was sort of a full-on
integration, so we started to move things between plants. KUM is actually going to pick up some
of the production that's coming out of China to deal with tariffs, so that one's getting a little mix.
But Q4, call it about 1.5 points and in 2018 call it about 2 points of growth coming from those two
deals, round numbers.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Sorry. In 2018 or 2019, 2 points?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
I'm sorry, in 2019. Did I say 2018? Sorry. 2019. But 1.5 points in Q4 and 2 points in 2019.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Okay. Thanks for that. And then just on the tariffs, sorry if I missed this, but what exactly are you
assuming? Is it the Section 301 List 3 at 10% for now going to 25%? Do you assume it stays at
10%? And is that – like the numbers you gave – is that gross impact before the mitigations you
mentioned you're trying to do?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, so that's right. So we've got $60 million and that's the total exposure, okay? So it's $10
million in Q1 and then at this point evenly throughout the last three quarters. The $10 million in Q1
is at the lower rates through January and February, then stepping up to the 25% in March, and we
assume 25% for the balance of the year.
We've left the full number in the guide at this point. We've got a number of remediation actions
but, to some extent, they'll get out of our control when they take effect, right? We'll needcustomer approval and those types of things. So at this point, based on what we know with tariffs,
I'd say the $60 million is the worst case and it's in there.
We made some progress over the course of fourth quarter remediating from the $75 million to
the $60 million. That was what I'll call maybe some of the lower hanging fruit in the remediation
plans where we had multiple sources for the product, could source from another location, so you
could make sort of what I'll call easier changes in the product flow. Those actions have taken
place and those costs are now out for 2019.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Okay. So fair to say you have some ideas about how you can go to mitigate this; unclear whether
they come through, but you're not counting on them in your guide?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I would say, Joe, it's more than ideas. As I mentioned, we're going to pull some production
out of China. We're going to put it into Korea. That process has started, but we got to get the
line up in Korea, then there's obviously customer validation. So that's really the issue with the
timing. It's not that we've got ideas we're not sure they'll work; it's we're in motion on things but
by the time they get approved by customers we're just not sure what the exact timing looks like,
if that makes sense.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. So Joe, operationally we are not assuming these go away. So, the $75 million original
estimate reduced to $60 million is the result of specific actions that Joe and the team have been
driving to reduce the overall exposure, and we're continuing to execute on a whole list of actions
– supply chain, manufacturing, and otherwise – to reduce the net impact. And as Joe said, some
of those activities require customer validation. Customers, certainly in North America seem to be
very engaged, so we would expect to get support in those activities, but we don't fully control it.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Thanks. Very helpful.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. with Deutsche Bank. Emmanuel,
your line is open.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Hi. Good morning everybody.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Good morning, Emmanuel.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `Good morning, Emmanuel.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Wanted to ask you about your recent performance and the expected one in the context of your
sort of like longer-term framework, the way it was communicated at your Investor Day a little
while ago. So in particular, I think the framework on the revenue side used to call for 4 to 6 points
over market through 2020, 5 to 7 points over market beyond that. It seems like in 2018 maybe
you did 10% over market, you're still planning for 8% in 2019. Are we still within the framework or
is there sort of like some upsides there?
And then similar type of question on the margin front but the other way around. I mean, I think
that we had been looking for 20 to 40 bps of expansion a year initially, maybe 30 to 50 bps
beyond that. I think that even excluding some of the macro headwinds, is it fair to say that we
haven't seen as much expansion as you expected? Is it more expensive to essentially grow this
business?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Emmanuel, it's Joe, and Kevin can chime in as well. Listen, I think on the revenue side we've
talked about it. We're obviously running ahead of where we thought we'd be back in September
of 2017. We see that continuing for 2019, obviously. And as we move into midyear and refresh the
longer-term revenue outlook at our Investor Day, we'll certainly be updating that outlook. It is fair
to say though, particularly the active safety and high-voltage businesses, are running ahead of
where we thought they'd be at this time. And as Kevin talked about with the bookings, that looks
like it will continue but we'll be updating the longer-term numbers midyear.
As it relates to margin rate, I'd really say two – on margin and operating performance – there's
two things. One, the FX and commodity rate impact – the optics on the rate – has somewhat
distorted in 2018 and has cost us a couple of points of margin. So I do think you got to look
through that from the point when we gave the original guide or the original framework, and we
expect that to continue through the first half of 2019.
The other thing I'll mention with respect to the operating performance in 2019, we've made a
decision – and I think this'll be short-term, this'll be a sort of 2019 and certainly the first half of
2019 – we've made a decision to continue to make investments in things like active safety,
mobility, high-voltage electrification even though we've seen the volumes pull back a bit
particularly in China, right? And our view as we thought through the year and the longer-term
outlooks for the businesses like active safety and high-voltage, it didn't make sense for a couple
of quarters of top line pressure in China to pull back on that spend. So that is impacting margins
at this point.
But again, we think longer-term it's the right thing to do and this is more of a short-term investing
through a couple of quarters here as we work through China. Obviously, tariffs we've talked
about. They were an unexpected headwind on operating performance, but we're committed to
working through those in 2019 as well.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
I mean, I'd just echo Joe's comment. Just as examples, as you know we've won seven Level
2/Level 3 active safety programs that will generate significant revenue in 2020 and beyond. And
we feel as though, given the technical knowledge that we've built in and around perception
systems, in and around centralized compute, smart vehicle architecture, there's a real opportunityover the next year or two to significantly enhance that competitive moat and continuing to
advance those technologies. And the net result over the near-term has been on advanced ADAS
programs we're winning well north of what our average win rate is for traditional programs,
probably closing on 80% or 90% win rate.
So, in a very rapidly growing market that requires advanced technologies, it's our view, just as Joe
said, that it's smart to continue to invest in the engineering capability even though we're seeing a
near-term decline in vehicle production.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
And with that said, as Kevin mentioned we're still very focused on the overhead side of the cost
structure, right? So, there's actions being taken now in China to take out some of the, what I'll
call, indirect salary costs. Our sort of willingness to continue to invest is very specific to the high-
growth product lines and we're continuing to focus on a lot of the other cost elements in the P&L.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Yeah, that's great color. Thank you. And then just quick follow-up. I figured I'd ask you about the
U.S. closing the hybrid tax loophole. I assume that there's no real impact on you since you're
guiding to a specific tax rate which has been optimized for 2019 and that you view as sustainable.
But have you specifically looked into it and any impact at all?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, we have, and there is no impact at this point. So we have taken a look at that and our team
has been very active on just the rollout of the U.S. tax law changes really for the past year now.
But that does not have an impact on us.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Great. Thanks again.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thank you.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of David Leiker with Baird. David, your line is open.
Q - `Joseph Vruwink, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc.
Good morning. This is Joe Vruwink for David.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Hey, Joe.
Q - `Joseph Vruwink, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc.
Other than the industry volumes being better or worse than the assumptions you walked through
earlier, can you discuss some of the more meaningful, be it, mix or take rate assumptions within
the guidance? Like you mentioned some difficult platform exposure in China during Q1. Any otherconsiderations like that as the year goes on that could swing positive or negative relative to your
views?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
No. Listen, I think as we talked about through the balance of 2018, obviously active safety, high-
voltage running ahead of expectations. I think that would be our equivalent of your take rate
comment. And I would say I think Kevin's comments on China in Q1, there are some platforms but
this is a – we've got a couple of OEs that are – I think it's more the inventory balancing comment
that Dan made. It's very specific schedules coming out as they sort of work through inventory, so
it's more on the production side than any type of take rate changes in China. It's very much
they're not making the vehicles. It's not a question of they're not making them without active
safety; it's they're not actually making the cars.
Q - `Joseph Vruwink, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc.
Okay, great, and then one follow-up. Aptiv and Delphi have done a really good job over the years
of proactively managing product lines in the portfolio. At the beginning of the call you mentioned
display audio; you're doing some pruning there. Any product categories that you look forward
and they're just going to be rolling off because you've made a strategic decision to refocus
elsewhere?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. I was going to say no, not at this point in time. The display piece, as we see the technology
really go to centralized compute and value come out of the display, and from a customer
standpoint a lot of that display business has moved to directed buy of hardware, the value-add
and quite frankly the margin profile of that business as well as the concentration of some of the
players that are in that display business led us to the conclusion that we're better off allocating
our resources to areas like active safety and smart vehicle architecture, vehicle electrification, so
places where we have a real strong competitive position and markets growing rapidly and the
technology component is much higher so we're better positioned for it. But other than display, at
least as we look forward, no, we wouldn't expect anything else but it's something that we
regularly evaluate, yeah.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. And to put it into context, that display business, a part of this is we're letting it wind down,
right? So we stopped bidding on it. We're much more focused on sort of the compute platform
behind the display than the physical screen itself. That total business is about $200 million in
revenue just to put it into context. So it's a very small product line that's just going to phase out
over time. We called it out this quarter just given it's probably about $50 million in the quarter,
$40 million or $50 million in the quarter so it's a little – I'm sorry, for the year, about $20 million for
the quarter, so it's a little bit bigger on a quarterly perspective.
Q - `Joseph Vruwink, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc.
Okay, great. Thank you very much.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Johnson with Barclays Capital. Brian, your line is
open.Q - `Brian A. Johnson, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Yes. Good morning. Just a couple questions. First, kind of more on the longer-term, can you tell
us more about the central compute wins? Are those, what, the same or different than multi-
domain controllers? If they're similar to multi-domain controllers, are they oriented towards
cockpit electronics or safety? And then just what's sort of – a question I often ask – kind of the
pace of discussions around the next various flavors of the next-gen architectures you outlined in
CES – I guess that's question number two – and when those might actually be hitting backlog?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. So maybe I'll answer the last first. So we have one engineering development program on
smart vehicle architecture today with a very large global customer, and likely we'll end up with a
second relatively soon, and are in conversations with I'd say roughly a dozen OEs about that
particular activity. So there are a number of the more advanced technology OEs who are very
focused on re-architecting the vehicle and effectively centralizing compute platforms.
Multi-domain controls, yes, they are the same. We've won I guess 11 multi-domain or central
compute platforms, Brian. Of those 11, roughly seven are in and around ADAS; we have a couple
two or three that are in and around cockpit controllers; and then a couple that are really around
chassis and powertrain. So we're seeing a significant trend towards consolidation of compute
platforms that ultimately, in our view, arrives at the concept that we laid out from a smart vehicle
architecture standpoint.
There'll be a period of time that we'll go through that sort of a process call it over the next seven
or eight years. But ultimately, we firmly believe for OEs to build the vehicles that they are looking
to build to satisfy customer demand for whether it be vehicle electrification or active safety
solutions or vehicle connectivity, the whole vehicle architecture needs to be rethought, and we
feel as though based on our conversations with OEs and feedback from them we're at the
forefront of helping them rethink that.
Q - `Brian A. Johnson, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Okay, and second somewhat related questions. I believe your share in wiring harnesses with
engineered components and connectors has been roughly 35% to 40% of course with somewhat
different competitors in the categories. You mentioned your win rate on some of the ADAS stuff
earlier. What's been your win rate in electrical, the more traditional electrical businesses? Is it
increasing or is it kind of the market share is roughly the same but you might be gravitating
towards higher-value applications?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. So on the connector engineered component side, I would say it's been high over the last
couple years. A part of that is market share gains within auto; a part of that is focusing the
portfolio outside of auto in areas of commercial vehicle where we've been less focused as well
as a real push through some of our acquisitions like Winchester, like HellermannTyton to grow
outside of transportation in total. But within the auto market, we're gaining share there. On the
wire side, I would say we're growing based on bookings and revenue growth basically at market;
maybe a little bit above.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `A little bit above, yeah. Yeah, Brian, a good example is within that SPS segment; I mentioned it in
my prepared remarks. The commercial vehicle business in SPS alone, we were close to 20%
growth this year for Signal and Power Solutions, and that base is getting larger. We're over $1
billion of revenue so it's not necessarily even off of a small base anymore. So we're seeing a lot
of uptake from commercial vehicle OEs in our connection systems and our electrical distribution
system technology, so I would say that broadly speaking that business is growing its share, right?
As we've often talked about, and you mentioned it, we estimate that business has content on
one out of every three and a half vehicles manufactured globally. So it's got more market in it so
the growth rates will always be a little lower than or lower than something like an active safety,
but that business is taking share.
Q - `Brian A. Johnson, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Okay, and then final question, more for modeling purposes. Can you give us any sense of your
China exposure in terms of different types of OEMs? Because, for example, premiums held up
much better than the lower end of the mass market. Asian and assuming Japanese and Korean,
especially Japanese joint ventures, have held up better than some of the American ones. So can
you kind of remind us of the pie chart in terms of your end OEM exposure there or end segment
exposure?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So for 2018, a total 23% of our China business was with we'll call domestic or local OEs.
90% percent of that though is concentrated really in the top 10 OEs. Whereas Aptiv, given active
safety, infotainment, electrification, we tend to be with the higher, larger domestic Chinese OEs.
77% was with the foreign JVs.
Q - `Brian A. Johnson, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Okay. And then kind of premium mass market within that, the JVs?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I don't have an exact percentage for you. It tends to be – we do have a lot of the higher
end in there, the FAW-VW, the SVWs, the Audi types, some platforms. We can come back with a
more specific number. We can take a look. I don't have it off the top of my head. I'm sorry.
Q - `Brian A. Johnson, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Okay. Thanks.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC with Goldman Sachs. David, your line
is open.
Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Great. Good morning. I want to focus on your active safety business. I think with the 57% revenue
growth, you're probably around $900 million. How does that compare from a margin perspective
for 2018 relative to corporate average? As the growth continues, what type of incrementals do
you think the business will have on it? And when is that going to be above corporate average
and, call it, materially accretive from a bottom line perspective?A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. Listen, I'll start and Joe can fill in the specifics. But as we've talked about, usually when we
introduce nascent technology the formula typically is getting to – call it, $300 million gets you to
breakeven, and then beyond that you begin to expand margins. I'd say you're right; we're
between $900 million and $1 billion as it relates to revenues. Today, those margin rates are
roughly at corporate average, and as you head into 2019 and beyond and they'll expand beyond
that. So it's carrying its full weight from a profitability standpoint.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, that's right. You were spot on with the $900 million. We finished a little bit over. And Kevin's
comment, it's within 50 basis points of corporate average now and next year we have it moving
well north of that. So this business is a meaningful contributor at this point to the profitability and
cash flow of the overall company.
Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
But that's including or excluding the autonomous investments you're making?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
No. Active safety, that would just be excluding. That's the product line we're quoting, not the
segment.
Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Okay, fair. So then the incrementals for this should be probably high 20s, low 30% range going
forward on the ADAS side of the business?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. I would say it's closer to kind of mid-20s as we launch, at least early stage, some of those
Level 2-plus/Level 3 programs, right? That's a much more advanced solution especially as you
approach Level 3, so I'd say there's some incremental engineering that goes in. And based on
timing of that engineering and revenue recognition we're launching those programs, there'd be a
little bit heavier engineering.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Dave, and it's just the growth in the business, right? And again, we'll update longer-term,
but you'll see over 40 points of growth next year in active safety. It'll continue maybe slightly
below that but in a very meaningful way in 2020. So we are continuing to grow the infrastructure
of this business, so the incrementals I'd say, to Kevin's point, the mid 20s are probably a better
estimate for the next couple years and then you've got more to leverage as it gets larger.
Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Got it, okay. So then focusing on the autonomous investments, I think the latest we had from you
was maybe 2025 AMoD target revenue of about $500 million. You'll probably tell me you're just
going to update it later in June or whatever the Investor Day is, but want to understand kind of
the confidence level to getting there and then if there's any immaterial impact on your growth
prospects for the business by potentially the German OEMs and suppliers having an autonomous
consortium put together as is potentially reported.A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. Well, listen, I'd say our level of confidence in the $500 million hasn't changed.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
That's right.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
So maybe at the Investor Day we'll give a more precise number than the $500 million. With
respect to discussions across the OE and supplier universe, those have been going on for quite
some time and quite frankly we're a part of a number of them. And as we contemplated our
revenue outlook and our investment requirement, it was under the contemplation that this is a bit
how they – there would be a lot of discussions this is how things would play out. So we wouldn't
see any impact on that revenue forecast at this point in time and certainly contemplated when we
originally estimated the size of the market and our market share.
Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Okay. And lastly for the tariffs, it sounds like a nice job so far going from the $75 million headwind
down to $60 million. You've got a couple more actions coming through with moving the
production lines, fine, and you'll get through customer validation. Can you share with us the
magnitude of what the annualized run rate of those savings would be? Not trying to hold you to a
timing but trying to understand how much that would potentially be, call it, a tailwind if it
happened at the end of the year and in 2019 and 2020 and nothing else changed.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. At this point, David, unfortunately we're just not far enough along. Had we had it, we
would've worked it in or at least commented to it. So a lot of action going on. Like I said, we're
able to get the low-hanging fruit really taken care of in November and December and now
working on some of the bigger projects. Again, it's stuff we're good at doing. We know how to
pick up a production line and move it somewhere else; it's just a matter of timing, with a fair
amount of that timing sort of being out of our control. So at this point, we've got the $60 million
in there and we'll keep a running update of how we progress on that through the year.
Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Okay. Thank you, gentlemen.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, David.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. with Citi. Itay, your line is open.
Q - `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Morning.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `Good morning.
Q - `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Morning. Just a first question on 2019 margins. I guess the guidance implies you might be running
kind of mid-12% beyond Q1. So first, hoping just to talk a little bit more about the cadence
throughout the year. And then to that, is there anything beyond 2019 that would prevent you from
running at those margins sustainably?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. No, that's the right way to think about the cadence, Itay. Listen, I think, and I made the
comment, we're focused on this long-term framework, right? We believe that's what the business
can deliver. We come back to it now in 2018 particularly with some of the FX and commodity
moves and also some of these newer macros that came in, the big move in the RMB and the
tariffs. They knocked us off that framework for a period of time, but we don't see anything in tariff
remediation or as the FX rates sort of stop moving, if you will, particularly on the transaction
impact of the ability to get back into that range of margin expansion. And we're also focused, and
I think just given the noise on the rate and we'll, again, talk about this later in the year, but
focused on just what we think profit growth would look like, too, over time. But no, I don't see
anything at this point that would take us off that longer-term track.
Q - `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Great. And then just my follow-up, you mentioned I think in the slides that the M&A pipeline is full.
Love to get an update around what you're looking for and also how the macro environment
influences opportunities as well as your willingness to go after deals and manage the balance
sheet at the same time.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, Listen, no, the pipeline remains full. The strategy has not changed, right? So we're looking
at these accretive bolt-on transactions. A lot of those tend to fall into SPS, but certainly look
across the entire business. There's also maybe some opportunities for some of the technology
type transactions, but those would tend to be smaller things, sort of Moviment or control type
deals. As we've said before, we don't envision another nuTonomy type deal. That was a very
strategic acquisition where we deployed a lot of capital for something that just is obviously not
accretive in the near-term. We would not expect to be doing those, so you're much more
focused on those types of bolt-ons.
And listen, I think the macro environment, certainly you've got to – a little more thoughtful around
diligence and valuations – but at this point have not seen that impact the overall level of activity.
Going to be a little more thoughtful coming in.
And then as I mentioned in my prepared comments, we're obviously, from a capital allocation
standpoint, going to be focused on both. There's accretive M&A opportunities, but at the same
time being opportunistic as it relates to the share buybacks, and you really saw us do that in Q4.
Q4 was a quarter where we put cash to work with the acquisition of Winchester but also did the
$300 million of share buybacks. So our view is we'll remain balanced and focused on both.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Chris McNally, Analyst, Evercore ISI with Evercore. Chris, your line is open.Q - `Chris McNally, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Thanks. Good morning, guys.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Good morning.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Hey, Chris.
Q - `Chris McNally, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
So I may have missed it, but have you given the margin outlook by division, even just qualitatively,
the down 10 to let's call it 40 basis points? Should we think about an equal decline in both
divisions?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Well, tariffs, yeah, tariffs are a little bit more weighted to SPS as I mentioned in my prepared
comments. So call it about $50 million of the $60 million would hit the SPS.
A - `Elena Doom Rosman, Vice President-Investor Relations `
And then, Chris, I would just also add. For Q1, S&PS, see, is more of the discrete China volume
decline which will impact their margin rate for Q1 in addition to the FX and commodities
headwinds in Q1. But most of that $20 million of OI impact in Q1 hits S&PS, Chris.
Q - `Chris McNally, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Okay, that's perfect. That sort of leads into the second question. I mean, one of your competitors
in electrical has talked about sort of different margins on, call it, legacy contracts or by region with
potentially higher margins in Europe on higher content, which I guess makes sense.
Should we think about the regional exposure in a similar way for your electrical architecture and
that the decrementals while Europe is weak could be harsher there? You mentioned obviously
China, the rate of change is bad but also it's something to think about as we think maybe in
second half where Europe could be rate of change better that we'd also see the incrementals
get better as well.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. For us – Chris, it's Kevin – on a corporate basis I'd say we're relatively balanced across
regions with actually for us Europe being a bit below the corporate average and North America
and Asia-Pac being a bit above. And all of that really ties, at least for us, cost of doing business in
Europe relative to cost of doing business in North America and Asia is a bit higher. So we would,
across our portfolio, tend to have lower margins in Europe than we have in, again, Asia-Pacific or
North America.
Q - `Chris McNally, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Okay, fantastic, and if I could just sneak one more in. Just because you gave the number, I didn't
have a chance to go back historically, but on the buyback authorization, the $2 billion on top of theobviously over the last couple of years you've been dialing back the buyback to do the heavier on
the acquisition side. It's a big number. I mean, obviously it would take five years to do it at the
current rate. Could you talk a little bit about the pace and how you're balancing the two about
doing acquisitions this sort of late in the cycle?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, no. So the authorization is higher than our last – our prior authorization – which was at $1.5
billion. Listen, I wouldn't read into that a big shift in capital allocation strategy. We're going to
remain very balanced but it is more. And listen, as I mentioned on Q4, like most things, we try to
manage that fairly actively. And when we say we're going to be opportunistic, we try to be, so Q4
is a good example. Again, almost $700 million of cash used for the Winchester acquisition, but as
we looked at what you could refer to market dislocation, particularly as you got into December,
our view is that would be a good time to be opportunistic; and we did, and I think we'll continue
to manage that way as we go.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
And Chris, I think one of the – Joe and I both talked a lot about cost structure, right? And internally
as a management team, although it's maybe not as sexy to some people as autonomous driving,
for us we spend half our time on how do we optimize cost structure, and we talk about
breakeven. Since we went public, we've lowered our breakeven level by 10 points, so that we've
really focused on how do we drive as much flexibility and much resiliency in our business model
which translates into more cash flow and in a tough year, right?
When we look at the macros for this year, we're going to generate about $1 billion of free cash
flow. And we don't have to announce huge restructuring programs across the enterprise; we've
already done that, right? Which allows us to, if we find attractive, strategic, well-valued M&A
opportunities, we can move on them. We evaluate them through the lens of how does that return
compare to buying back our own stock, but it puts us in a great position to have options in what's
a tough macro environment, and we work really hard every day to make sure that we preserve
optionality and we think there's tremendous value in that.
Q - `Chris McNally, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Okay, great. Much appreciated, guys.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Chris.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Rich Kwas, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC with Wells Fargo Securities. Rich, your line is
open.
Q - `Rich Kwas, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Thanks. Good morning everyone.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Morning, Rich.A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Hey, Rich.
Q - `Rich Kwas, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Hey. Kevin, on the win from last quarter with Porsche with the body and chassis control, how do
you see additional wins or announcements coming out over the next couple years? How do you
see the cadence playing out?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. I would expect it – and obviously, bookings and size of bookings, there's lumpiness to it –
but I would say the activity is going to continue to significantly ramp up. I think one of the great
things with the Porsche win is not only is it a new domain for us and it validates that centralization
– it's actually with the VW Group; I think that's our third or fourth central compute win. So it shows
– in our view, it validates kind of the strategic relationship that you establish with these OEs when
you're dealing with these highly technical complex problems. And it reflects the moat that Joe
and I have both mentioned before that we've been able to build based on our capabilities in
vehicle architecture as well as in software.
Q - `Rich Kwas, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Is that weighted towards Europe OEs or Chinese-based OEs?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. Today, it tends to be more weighted towards European OEs. It tends to be more weighted
to the more technical, higher-end European OEs. But the reality is even on the active safety side,
given the ability to centralize, to take out mass, take out cost, and improve performance, we're
seeing it and we have wins with – and I – PSA is a great example with players like PSA that are
looking for great technology solutions at lower cost. And so our general view is you're going to
see it across both European OEs and it's going to accelerate.
Q - `Rich Kwas, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Okay. And then two for Joe just on operating inefficiencies. I don't know if – I think launch costs
were included in this, but it was like $65 million I think was the last update we had for 2018. I don't
know how that ended, but what's the assumption for 2019? And then separately on tariffs, let's
say best case scenario we get Kumbaya, everybody gets together and tariffs go away, does this
net incremental impact for 2019 completely go away or is there some leakage around some of
the activities you're embarking on or have already completed?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, so let me start. So the inefficiencies, we ended right about where we ended. We had $35
million in the fourth quarter and $30 million in Q3, and that's about where we came in. And the
way we've thought about it for plan, and this is what we were talking about at the last year, with a
little bit more of a planning horizon we start to adjust the cost structure. So I'd say at this point –
we talked about China costs coming out, so we've dealt with inefficiencies, if you will, in the guide
through longer-term cut cost actions. So that was really – those inefficiencies tend to pop up in a
more discrete period of time when you have quicker changes in volume, Rich. So less of a
discussion for 2019 and they're in there and they're being dealt with now that we have sort of theAs it relates to tariffs, yeah, that's one of the reasons we're sort of behaving as if they're not
going away, right? We're starting to move things, so we are incurring some costs related to tariffs.
We're incurring a little bit of CapEx to move plants, so you'll have that. If they were to go away
tomorrow, we'd obviously have given up that, those costs. But just as we're not sure that they're
going away, I don't think anybody can be sure, we want to get ahead of them. So there is some
investment and some small incremental costs that are going to the business to deal with them.
But to your question, if they were to go away tomorrow, obviously whatever point in the year
we're in the remaining portion of that $60 million should go away, and that's one of the reasons
we're trying to frame it the way we do externally.
Q - `Rich Kwas, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
So on a pro rata basis, that goes – okay, so that goes away. Okay, so there's no leakage around
cost and stuff. That's already included?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. It's included but we are spending that money, right? We're not hoping. And then, listen,
we'll work through over the course of the next couple quarters what that actual remediation looks
like. But at this point, based on everything we know, $60 million is the max. So we'll be better
from there.
Q - `Rich Kwas, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Okay, great. Thanks for the time.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Rich.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC with JPMorgan. Ryan, your line is open.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Hi. Congrats on the strong execution.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Hey, Ryan.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Thanks for taking my questions. One of your active safety competitors has commented that
automakers have delayed the launch of some new vehicles perhaps to save money amidst the
softer industry environment pressuring the revenue in 2019 even as the long-term outlook is
unchanged or better. I'm just curious what, if anything, you might be seeing with regard to launch
delays. I ask in part because I think this would negatively impact strong backlog stories such as
your own given that new vehicles are likely to have more of Aptiv's content per vehicle than
existing programs.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah.Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
And similar to the conservative industry assumptions you're introducing today, I think it would
perhaps cast your 2019 revenue guidance in even more favorable light.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. Ryan, we haven't seen any program delays – no delays, no shifting, no cancellations really in
any region. Now, we've seen in North America and other areas passenger car volumes, sedan
volumes as you know, I mean, that's been – you follow it as closely as we do – seen significant
reduction in those sorts of vehicle platforms and they've been announced and they've tended to
be replaced with whether it's crossover, SUV or truck volumes. But we've not seen delays or
cancellations of future programs.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Okay, that's super helpful. Thanks. And then just lastly from me. Are you seeing anything or what's
the latest you're seeing in terms of the latest when it comes to automaker plans for autonomous
and semi-autonomous features? I think there was some discussion about maybe Level 4 or 5
being a little bit later but at the same time interest in Level 2 or Level 2-plus coming sooner than
what is expected. Is that the trend you're seeing and how should that net out for Aptiv?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Well, we're definitely seeing advancements or pull forward of Level 2-plus, Level 3-minus, Level 3.
So the amount of business opportunity or programs here that we're working with OEs on or
quoting on I'd say is higher than what we would've expected a year or two ago. The Level 4/Level
5 program, I'm not really sure I would say we've seen really a delay. I think, in general, it's a tough
problem to solve and people are working on solving those tough problems, and there are
players like ourselves as well as a few others out there that will be launching platforms over the
next couple years.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
I see, I see.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
But have to say – I would tell you, active safety is a significant – I mean, given our growth rates,
given the amount of bookings, we've seen a significant increase in activity in and around active
safety.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Right, and just as a follow-up to that. When it comes to the Level 4/Level 5, obviously a lot of
automakers will have the supply base to do it all. Some of the automakers have been pretty
vertically integrated. Is that more when it comes to testing? When they move from testing to
commercialization, do you think that some of the companies that have been doing a lot of
development in-house will in fact end up utilizing the supply base for things like driver policy
software, etcetera?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `Yeah. I think for some of the software and for some of the software integration, certainly for the
perception systems, so I would tell you with virtually every OE out there that has an AD program
today, an internal AD program, whether they're doing all the work themselves or doing it across
partners, I believe we're providing them with some product, whether it's architecture, whether it's
perception systems, whatever the case may be. So whether or not we're doing the full software
stack, there still is a tremendous opportunity for players like ourselves.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Very helpful. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Maynard Um from Macquarie. Maynard, your line is
open.
A - `Elena Doom Rosman, Vice President-Investor Relations `
All right. I think we have time for one more question.
Operator
Your last question comes from the line of `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch with Bank of America Merrill Lynch. John,
your line is open.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Good morning, guys.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Hey, John.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Hey, John.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
I actually, believe it or not, just had one follow-up question on China. And Kevin, I hate to kind of
parse your words like Fed speak here, but when you were talking about page 8 – on page 8 on
China, you mentioned something about getting ready for structurally lower volumes in China, and
obviously you're taking the workforce actions. Just curious. As you think about that, in absolute
terms is that growth rate? And then as you're kind of thinking about the actions you're taking on
the workforce side, I mean, in 2015 we saw sort of a whipsaw and sort of a growth scare there. Is
there any concern that you might see stimulus even though we're not hearing it yet come in and
kind of bump stuff up there?
And the other node to this though is even if we saw slower growth or maybe even lower
absolute buying growth from maybe a cyclical standpoint here in China, does the content growth
story for you just stand so strong that your 10% growth above market maybe just expands and
you're not sort of tethered to this macro that I think we're all concerned about right now?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `Yeah. Listen, what we're basically saying is our outlook, we've seen three straight quarters of
weak production growth and our outlook for the full year based on the schedules we see on unit
volume is down. And I think if you do the math, our number is effectively, for 2019, a 26 million unit
China, right? Now, that's a huge market. When you put it in perspective with Europe and North
America, that's a massive market. And off that 26 million units, our outlook is you'd have growth
but growth would be more tempered than what it's historically been.
Having said that, given where we sit from a technology standpoint, our growth over market we
believe will continue to be extremely strong, if not possibly accelerate just given the demand for
things like active safety, infotainment, user experience, and vehicle electrification. So although a
lower production level, growth over market and revenue growth, just pure revenue growth, will
continue to be extremely strong. So we're positive about China. We're positive about where we
sit in China; we just think you're going to see lower growth than what we had historically seen
over the last 10 years.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
John, just to add a little context. Those three product lines, as it relates to China all three of those
are triple-digit growth next year for us in China, right, as we start to go through that on a product
line basis. So electrification is going to be well over 100% revenue growth. So they're small but
they're contributing a lot of growth to that business.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
The workforce actions, are those sort of a rebalancing and we can expect some other folks to be
hired in other areas? It sounds like you're kind of going after the workforce, but you're still seeing
growth. So just trying to understand the balance between those two.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. I mean, that's the balance. The balance is from a revenue growth standpoint which it's a
region that's growing. I think we've used this as an opportunity quite frankly to tighten the belt.
And regardless of whether the market rebounds strongly, I don't think you'd see us doing any
real whipsawing there. I think you'd see us operating off of a lower overhead base.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Got you, and just last one on the SVA. You said you're talking to about a dozen other automakers.
Could those be outside of our traditional and be companies like a Rivian or a Byton or something
like that that might be out there that you're talking to on that? It seems like they would be really
interested in it.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. Those discussions would be outside of the number, that dozen that I referenced. But, yeah,
we're aware of all of them and have ongoing dialogues with all of them.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay, great. Thank you.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
All right.A - `Elena Doom Rosman, Vice President-Investor Relations `
All right, thank you. Kevin, do you want to do some closing remarks?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. So, listen, everyone thank you very much for taking the time to get an update on our fourth
quarter earnings as well as our outlook for 2019. We appreciate your time and we certainly
appreciate you as investors. So thank you.
Operator
This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.