Q4 2019 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day. My name is Matthew and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would
like to welcome everyone to the Aptiv Fourth Quarter 2019 Earnings Conference Call. All lines
have been placed on-mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there
will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) Thank you.
`Elena Rosman, Vice President, Investor Relations, Vice President of Investor Relations, you may begin your conference.
`Elena Rosman, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Matthew. Good morning and thank you to everyone for joining Aptiv fourth quarter
2019 earnings conference call. To follow along with today's presentation, our slides to be found
at ir.aptiv.com and consistent with prior calls, today's review of our actual and forecasted financials
exclude restructuring and other special items, and will address the continuing operations of Aptiv.
The reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP measures for both our Q4 financials, as well as
our outlook for the first quarter and full year 2020 are included in the back of today's
presentation, and the earnings press release.
Please see slide two for a disclosure on forward-looking statements, which reflect Aptiv's current
view of future financial performance, which may be materially different from our actual
performance for reasons that we cite in our Form 10-K and other SEC filings. Joining us today will
be Kevin Clark, Aptiv's President and CEO; and Joe Massaro, CFO and Senior Vice President.
With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Kevin Clark.
`Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Elena. Good morning, everyone. I'm going to begin today's earnings call by providing an
overview of our 2019 fourth quarter and full-year strategic and financial highlights. Joe will then
take you through our fourth quarter and full year results in more detail, as well as provide our
financial outlook for 2020.Starting with the fourth quarter, revenues increased 2% to $3.6 billion, despite a 7% reduction in
global vehicle production, representing 9 points of growth over the underlying market. Operating
income and earnings per share totaled $388 million and $1.15 respectively, above the top end of
our previous guidance range, due to flow through on higher volume growth and a lower than
originally forecasted headwind from the GM labor strike during the quarter, partially offset by
weaker exchange rates for the euro and renminbi.
For the full year, revenues totaled $14.4 billion, representing 9 points of growth over the
underlying vehicle production, reflecting the strength of our product portfolio aligned to the Safe,
Green and Connected megatrends. Despite declining industry volumes, we had our eight straight
year of record new business bookings, reaching $22.1 billion, exceeding 2018's record of $22
billion. Our 2020 outlook further validates the strength of our -- our business strategy and the
continuing widening of our competitive moat.
Based on near-term customer production schedules, as well as the mid term macro and
geopolitical environment, we expect global vehicle production to decline 3% during the year.
Despite the anticipated production decline, we're forecasting 4% revenue growth, 7 points over
the underlying market, highlighting the fact that our business is built to outperform in any
environment. In summary, we continue to build on our strong track record of execution and
innovation and remain focused on delivering the integrated solutions that are making vehicles
safer, greener and more connected.
Turning to slide four, our 2019 performance reflects the efforts we've made to further strengthen
our through cycle resiliency, ensuring that we can outperform in a challenging environment.
Including having a more balanced mix of customer, regional and end market revenues. No one
customer now represents more than 10% of our annual revenue and we've nearly doubled the
percentage of revenues not tied to light vehicle production, from 8% in 2017 to almost 15% in
2019. During the past two years of declining vehicle production, we've also increased the
engineering investments necessary to ensure that we have the software, compute vehicle
architecture and systems integration capabilities required to help our customers solve their
biggest challenges.
To help fund our increase investment in the development of these advanced technologies, we
continue to reduce our overhead costs, further enhancing the flexibility and competitiveness of
our business model. And we also announced the 50-50 joint venture with Hyundai, which
manages the development -- which advances the development of production-ready autonomous
driving systems both cost effectively and at scale, which we now expect to close at the end of the
first quarter.
Our more sustainable business model is able to convert more income to cash. In 2019, we
generated $1.6 billion in cash from operations and increased our free cash flow conversion of net
income to 85%, positioning us to continue our track record of value enhancing capital
deployment, both investing in acquisitions and returning almost $650 million of cash to
shareholders through share repurchases and dividends. In summary, our ownership mindset
reinforces the team's attitude that we're never done and you can expect more of the same in
2020.
Turning to slide five, fourth quarter new business bookings totaled a record $8.1 billion, bringing
the 2019 total to $22.1 billion. Fourth quarter bookings reflected both increased customer sourcing
activities and a strong Aptiv win rate. With the pace of our new business bookings in perspective,
since 2017, the forecast for global vehicle production has actually declined 10%. During the sameperiod, our new business bookings have increased 15%, reflecting our strengthening competitive
position across several advanced technologies.
Our Advanced Safety and User Experience segment booked $3.2 billion of new customer awards
in the quarter and $7.6 billion for the full year. Our industry-leading capabilities in central compute
platforms and sensing and perception systems allows us to deliver smarter, safer and more
integrated solutions, both outside the vehicle with active safety as well as in the vehicle, through
enhanced in-cabin Safety and User Experience systems. Our Signal and Power Solutions segment
had new business bookings totaling $4.9 billion during the quarter and $14.5 billion for the full
year, including a second straight year with over $2 billion of high-voltage electrification awards.
Our long track record of increased new business bookings each year validates our ability to
leverage the unique brain and nervous system for software and hardware foundation that
enables new features and functions, while optimizing the total system cost of the vehicle, and
reinforces our ability to sustain strong above market growth, underscoring our relevant portfolio
aligned to key secular growth trends.
Turning to highlights in our Advanced Safety and User Experience segment on slide six. Sales for
the fourth quarter were up 4%, 11 points over market. Continued strong consumer demand for
Active Safety and User Experience Solutions drove revenue growth of 23% and 3% respectively.
As the need for more complex software development and systems integration expertise
increases, our unique ability to offer highly functional optimized solutions has driven several of our
2019 strategic highlights, including further penetration of existing customers, who deployed our
scalable satellite architecture platform, helping them democratize Active Safety solutions across
their vehicle lineups.
We're also introducing advanced technologies for use in the nascent field of interior sensing,
which is expected to grow at a 50% compounded growth rate through 2025, albeit off a
relatively low base. During 2019, we were awarded three new programs, focused on assessing
driver availability and engagement to meet end cap regulations as well as support partially
automated functionality, such as Highway Pilot and Traffic Jam Assist. During the year, a premium
OEM customer awarded us our first zone controller program, representing another step in
building the technical and commercial foundation for Aptiv's FCA approach.
And lastly, we also launched the first Android infotainment solution with Volvo car, powered by
native Google automotive services and real time OTA, enabling a best-in-class in cabin
experience, and underscoring Aptiv's leading agile solutions development capabilities and role as
a partner of choice, serving as the best bridge between the automotive and the tech industries.
Turning to slide seven, active Safety penetration in the United States has reached the point
where we're beginning to see fatality rates decline as OEMs move from initial level zero
applications to Level 1 and more advanced Level 2 ADAS applications. Consumers are demanding
safer vehicles and OEMs are responding, accelerating the penetration of more advanced ADAS
systems across their vehicle lineups, from the premium to the value segments. Underpinning our
continued strong growth in new business bookings for ADAS systems has been our ability to
provide OEMs with highly reliable, scalable platforms, which allow them to deploy advanced
ADAS systems more quickly, in a more -- and at a more competitive price level. As OEMs
increasingly look to leverage their investments for Level 2, Level 2 plus and even Level 3 ADAS
systems, the growth in our pipeline of new business pursuits is actually accelerating, even while
underlying vehicle production schedules declined.Our scalable AS solution is unique in the industry and has been very successful in the
marketplace, positioning us to enhance our market position in the future. Active Safety bookings
increased to a record $4.2 billion in 2019, and we're on track to reach over $5 billion in 2020. And
we expect our Active Safety revenues to almost double from $1.3 billion in 2019 to more than $2.5
billion in 2022, significantly outpacing the underlying growth of the Active Safety market as
reflected on the chart.
As we discussed previously, the accelerated growth in our commercial pipeline for advanced
ADAS programs has led us to the side [ph] to increase our investment in the Advanced
Engineering, customer pursuit and program launch resources, necessarily -- necessary to take the
opportunity to widen our competitive moat and ensure we position Aptiv to be the leading player
in the active safety market. Joe will provide more detail on this investment later in the
presentation.
Turning to slide eight, our Signal and Power Solutions segment is focused on next generation
vehicle architectures, including high speed data and high power electrical distribution, enabling
the advanced technologies that will shape the future of mobility. In the fourth quarter, sales
increased 1%, 8 points above market, despite the impact of the GM strike, driven by new
launches across our electrical distribution and connected product lines. High voltage electrification
revenues increased 28% in the quarter, while non-auto revenues were up 26%.
Our leadership position and optimized vehicle architectures has positioned us to be the partner
of choice for both traditional and new mobility customers. As evidenced by our recent high
voltage award with Tesla and the Model Y, and the expansion of our low voltage business on the
Model Y and Model 3 in China. Also during 2019, our connection systems business launched an
expanded line of Automatable Modular Ethernet Connectors, AMEC connectors, capable of
handling up to 1 gigabyte of data per second, with several global OEM customers. This family of
interconnect enables the evolution of modern vehicle architectures, which is necessary to
democratize high levels of safety automation, with fast and reliable data transfers. Together,
these new business bookings underscore our strength in optimizing power and signal distribution
for complex architectures, as well as our ability to serve customers globally through consistent
engineering and launch execution.
Diving deeper into our high voltage electrification product line on slide nine, our strong pipeline
of new business awards reinforces the fact that we're at a significant inflection point in the growth
of high-voltage electrification. Despite the slowdown in 2019, Chinese new energy vehicle
initiative is driving increased powertrain electrification and European OEMs cannot achieve the
new more stringent CO2 targets, without the combination of plug-in hybrids and battery electric
vehicles. As a result of these factors, we're confident that by 2022, well over 20% of the vehicles
produced annually will include an electrified powertrain.
And as we've mentioned several times before, our total addressable content per vehicle for the
full range of high-voltage alternatives, including traditional hybrids, plug-ins and fully electric
vehicles, is in the range of 1.5 to 2 times that of a traditional low voltage vehicle. Our 2019 high
voltage electrification revenues totaled approximately $315 [ph] million, that's up almost 40%
year-over-year, making it one of our fastest growing product lines. Between now and 2022, OEMs
are expected to launch roughly 40 new high-voltage platforms globally, spanning hundreds of
nameplates. Based on the value and program launch timing of our new business bookings,
product line revenues are expected to increase more than three-fold, to over $1 billion in 2022,
representing a 40% compounded growth rate over that time [ph].So in summary, we're perfectly positioned to continue to increase revenues significantly above
[ph] underlying vehicle production, as we leverage our increasingly differentiated competitive
position and continue to benefit from the increased demand for Advanced Safety solutions,
vehicle connectivity and high voltage electrification.
Before I turn it over to Joe on slide 10, I'd like to touch on our recent activities at CES in Las
Vegas. As we've done in the past, we hosted a number of customers, partners and investors in
our pavilion, featuring our smart vehicle architecture, which lowers the total cost of ownership,
while enabling the software defined feature rich vehicles consumers want.
In total, we had nearly 1,000 stakeholder visits and hosted a number of senior executives from
our customers, which underscore the increasingly strategic role Aptiv plays in delivering next-gen
vehicle technologies to our customers. During our many meetings, customers validated the need
to streamline and simplify vehicle architectures to both reduce cost and enable the necessary
advancements in high voltage electrification and vehicle autonomy. And our CES centerpiece
display highlighted the benefits of Aptiv's unique brain and nervous system technology portfolio,
with prototypes of new and existing electrical and electronic solutions that allow us to effectively
manage and take advantage of the up integration of the vehicles' compute domains.
Our capabilities around the brain and nervous system of the vehicle positions us to serve as a
natural consolidator and integrator, efficiently offering the most advanced hardware and software
solutions. Customer feedback validated the significant progress we made in 2019, developing the
technology stack and future roadmap for continued SVA development.
With that, I'll hand the call over to Joe to take us through the fourth quarter and full year results,
and review our outlook for 2020.
`Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Kevin and good morning, everyone. As discussed at the beginning of the presentation,
our financial framework aligns with our mission to build a more sustainable business with the
ability to outperform in any environment. We remain focused on improving our through cycle
performance by enhancing our industry leading growth portfolio and flexible cost structure, while
investing for future growth and executing on our capital deployment strategy, which I'll cover in
more detail in a moment.
Starting with our fourth quarter revenue growth on slide 11, revenues of $3.6 billion were up 2%
adjusted in the quarter, totaling 9% growth over market, as vehicle production declined 7% in the
quarter as expected. Excluding acquisitions, organic growth was 1% or 8% growth over market.
And as a reminder, the Winchester Interconnect acquisition closed early in the fourth quarter of
2018. Strong launch volume and content gains globally were partially offset by price downs of
1.5% in the quarter, the unfavorable impact of FX and commodities and lower North American
volume related to the GM strike.
From a regional perspective, North America revenues were down 9% on an adjusted basis and
approximately flat excluding the GM strike. European revenues were up 8% adjusted, with 14
points of growth over market driven by the uptick of several Active Safety and electrification
programs. And lastly, our China adjusted growth was 11% or 12 points of growth over market,
driven by strong launch volume across the portfolio.
Turning to slide 12, as Kevin indicated, fourth quarter operating income and EPS were above the
high end of the guidance we provided back in October. EBITDA and operating income of $566
million and $388 million respectively reflected better than expected volume growth in bothsegments, offset by FX and commodity headwinds and the impact of the GM strike, which
totaled approximately $80 million in the quarter. Adjusted operating income margin was 10.8% in
the quarter. Earnings per share of $1.15 was down 14% reported, but up approximately 7%
excluding the GM strike.
Moving to the segments on the next slide. For the quarter, Advanced Safety and User Experience
revenues grew 4% or 11 points over market, driven by launches and robust growth in Active
Safety, more than offsetting the impact of the planned roll-off of our display audio product line.
Operating income margin was 12.2% before the impact of mobility investments, driven by the
accretive benefit of volume growth, offset by continued growth-related investments in the
business. Our mobility spend for the quarter totaled $42 million and $184 million for the year,
which was in-line with expectations. In summary, another strong year of revenue growth and
operating leverage, while investing for future growth in the Advanced Safety and User Experience
segment.
Turning to Signal and Power Solutions on slide 14. For the fourth quarter, revenues were up 1%
adjusted, representing 8% growth over market. Excluding acquisitions, organic growth was flat or
7 points over market, resulting from strong growth in our electrical distribution systems and CV
and industrial product lines, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of the GM strike. EBITDA
margin was 17.2%, down 90 basis points year-over-year and operating income margin was 11.8%,
down 130 basis points. However, both EBITDA and operating income were up approximately 80
basis points, excluding the impact of the GM strike.
Given the continued challenging macro landscape heading into 2020, we expect to see
continued softening of vehicle production around the world as shown on slide 15. At a global
level, we expect vehicle production to be down 3% for the full year with 4% adjusted revenue
growth or 7 points of growth over market. From a regional perspective, let me start with China.
We expect vehicle production to decline 3% for the full year, with production down 15% in the first
quarter, including the extended New Year shutdown announced earlier this week. We expect to
see stronger growth over market in the first half in China as we lap the heavy launch cadence we
had in the back half of 2019.
Turning to North America, we expect vehicle production to decline 1% for the full year, as a
modest recovery in GM volumes are offset by continued declines in passenger car units and a
round off of our display audio business. Turning to Europe. We expect full-year production to
decline 4%. However, our pace of double-digit growth over market continues, driven by new
program launches in our Active Safety and high voltage product lines, as Kevin referenced earlier.
Consistent with the last two years, our portfolio of safe green and connected technologies and
balanced regional customer and platform mix will more than offset the negative industry macros
again in 2020.
Turning to the next slide for our 2020 guidance. For the year, we expect revenue to be in the
range of $14.5 billion to $14.9 billion, up 4% at the midpoint, despite global vehicle production
down 3%, resulting in growth over market of 7%. Operating income is expected to be $1.72 billion
at the midpoint, with operating margins increasing 100 basis points, when adjusting for FX and
commodities. As Kevin mentioned, we expect the automated driving JV to close at the end of Q1.
We expect earnings per share in the range of $4.75 to $5.05 per share, up 2% at the midpoint,
with share count flat year-over-year, a 10% increase before the impact of the equity income
losses from the JV. Operating cash flow of $1.75 billion is up 8% year-over-year.
Looking at the first quarter, revenue is expected in the range of $3.47 billion to $3.57 billion, up 1%
at the midpoint, with 6 points of growth over market, given our outlook for global vehicleproduction, down 5% in the quarter. EBITDA and operating income are expected to be $495
million and $315 million at the midpoint respectively, and earnings per share are expected to be
$0.90 at the midpoint.
As a reminder, our first quarter outlook reflects the estimated impact of the extended shutdowns
in China vehicle production. Despite 2020 representing the third consecutive year of declining
vehicle production, our outlook for the year demonstrates the track -- demonstrates the traction
we have made improving our through cycle resiliency, with a relevant portfolio of technologies
that grow faster than the underlying market and a competitive cost structure, allowing us to grow
earnings and cash flow, while continuing to invest in future growth.
Turning to the next slide, we thought it'd be helpful to walk revenue, EBITDA and operating
income year-over-year for the segments, starting with Advanced Safety and User Experience. For
revenue, we expect growth over market of 7 points, translating into approximately $4.2 billion of
revenue in 2020. As growth in Active Safety revenue more than offsets price downs, FX and the
roll-off of our displays and contract manufacturing revenues. EBITDA and operating margins
excluding mobility in both years is expected to be down approximately 200 basis points.
Consistent with our prior communications, the outlook for ASUX includes the necessary
investments to support the development of advanced technologies, the pipeline of new business
pursuits, and the volume of new program launches in 2020, demonstrating the benefits of our
competitive position, and enhancing the opportunity to maximize returns on our investment in the
coming years, with continued strong volume growth.
Turning to Signal and Power Solutions, we expect growth over market of 6 points, translating into
approximately $10.5 billion of revenue in 2020. Our electrical distribution system's product line
continues to be a market leader and is seeing sustainable growth over market from higher
content and penetration of Auto 2.0 megatrends. Our connector and cable management product
lines which include auto, and industrial interconnects is expected to grow mid single-digit above
market again in 2020 and high voltage electrification including both electrical distribution in
connectors is accretive to both the growth and profitability of SPS, with 50% growth expected in
2020. Operating margin expansion and is expected to be approximately 80 basis points, more
than offsetting the unfavorable impact of FX and commodities.
Turning to the next slide and Aptiv overall, you will see the year-over-year walks for revenue and
operating income for the full year of 2020. For revenue, you see the benefits of our more secular
portfolio driving volume growth, and more than offsetting price, FX and commodity headwinds.
For operating income, you see the benefits of volume growth, partially offset by unfavorable
foreign exchange and commodities, primarily the euro and RMB. And the benefits of our
performance initiatives derived from our annual manufacturing and material sourcing actions, that
ramp over the course of the year in addition to the benefits of the JV [ph] consolidation, partially
offset by our investments for growth, which I noted earlier.
While industry volume started their decline in 2018, Aptiv has continued to execute its capital
deployment strategy, creating meaningful value for shareholders as reflected on slide 20. We
have continued investing in the business organically to support our strong bookings growth in
faster growing product lines, such as Active Safety and electrification, inorganically where we
have invested $1.5 billion in acquisitions like KUM, Winchester and Gabocom, which have
expanded the geographic and end market diversification of our Signal and Power Solutions
business.
Lastly, we have returned approximately $1.4 billion to shareholders through share repurchases
and dividends over this timeframe, bringing our total cash returned to shareholders toapproximately $7 billion since our IPO in 2011. Looking forward, we will continue to maintain a
consistent and well balanced approach to capital allocation, align to our strategic framework,
focusing on reinvesting in our businesses and paying a competitive dividend, our M&A strategy
focuses on transactions that enhance our scalability, accelerate speed to market and also provide
access to new markets and to the extent that we can take advantage of market disconnects, we
will continue to be opportunistic in our share buyback and returning cash to shareholders. In
summary, we believe effective capital deployment is a major differentiator for Aptiv and an
important lever for shareholder value generation.
With that, I'd like to hand the call back to Kevin for his closing remarks.
`Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Joe. I'll wrap up on slide 21 before opening it up for Q&A. 2019 was another great year
for Aptiv, despite an even more challenging macro environment. Our operating performance
validated the progress we've made in strengthening our through cycle resiliency by having the
right portfolio of advanced technologies, enabling the safe, green and connected solutions. Our
customers are increasingly demanding the right cost structure, allowing us to continue to invest in
future capabilities, while driving earnings and cash flow growth and the right people and
processes to deliver the innovation and execution that's inherent in our strategy.
Looking ahead, the team has never been more confident in our competitive position and our
ability to outperform through cycle. We believe Aptiv is perfectly positioned to continue
capitalizing on the key global Auto 2.0 megatrends to drive market share gains, while continuing
to improve our cost structure, which gives us tremendous confidence in our outlook for 2020 and
beyond. We remain laser focused on both delivering value to our shareholders today, while also
strengthening our competitive position in the future, moving upon our strong track record of
flawless operational execution and value-enhancing capital deployment.
As a result, we've built a much more predictable and sustainable business, with robust downturn
resiliency that's better positioned to perform in any macro environment. So with that, let's open
up the line for Q&A.
`Elena Rosman, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Matthew. Let's take our first question.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Certainly. (Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of `Brian Johnson, Analyst, Barclays Bank PLC with
Barclays. Your line is open.
Q - `Brian Johnson, Analyst, Barclays Bank PLC `
Yes, a couple of things. First, and -- three questions, but this display roll of the business, it's not a
surprise. We've talked about that, but especially in light of all the people selling displays and all
the action at CES, could you do -- due to [ph] -- then statistically, just one remind us of when and
why you decided to exit that business? And two, when you are still doing User Experience, where
does that mean you're really focused as a hypervisors of software? Is it just the same advanced
systems, but outsourcing the screens?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `Yeah, so with that -- Brian, I'll start and then Joe, certainly can add to the comment. On the
display side or that portion of the display business that we decided we were going to exit it, it's
really only directed by aspects -- that aspect, that it's a commodity. So the software behind the
display, the hypervisor, all sort -- all of that sort of value-add as well as the domain controller,
that's the activities that we're focusing our efforts on.
Q - `Brian Johnson, Analyst, Barclays Bank PLC `
And (Multiple Speakers) get those without putting the display part of that?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, the display part is more often then that and certainly increasingly it's pass through or
directed by from the -- from the customers. So that's the aspect of the display business that we
decided that we were going to exit.
Q - `Brian Johnson, Analyst, Barclays Bank PLC `
Okay. And as you look in that segment, are there other mature products that would be wound
down and just not going after then that, is it just as we think about the revenue walk with all the
positive trends we need to keep in mind, longer term?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, no. No, I think from an overall portfolio standpoint, we believe the balance of what we call
user experience, which is principally for us infotainment, the software, the hypervisor again the
domain controller, as it relates to cockpit controllers and those sorts of things, it's a very attractive
business for us. And we have a very strong competitive position.
Q - `Brian Johnson, Analyst, Barclays Bank PLC `
Okay.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And Brian,, the wind down in 2020 is about $75 million of this revenue, round numbers.
Q - `Brian Johnson, Analyst, Barclays Bank PLC `
Okay and does that -- any of that flow through '21 and '22?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
It's really small numbers after that, we finished 2019 at -- a little under $100 million.
Q - `Brian Johnson, Analyst, Barclays Bank PLC `
Okay. Second around that you use CO2 transition, apart from the minus 3% or so production,
what are you A, seeing in terms of production mix between electrified, non electrified mix? B,
how would that change over the year? And then C, I assume you're fairly fungible between
regular wiring, regular wiring plus high voltage for hybrid type of wire, plus high voltage with them
[ph]. How are you thinking about managing what could be -- or are you expecting production
schedule category volatility and how are you preparing for that?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `No, well, at least based on what we see today, right, we been on a path for electrification for
some period of time. It doesn't mean at the OE level that we could -- that you would potentially --
could potentially see a disconnect. From our perspective, what we're seeing from a customer
schedule standpoint, especially in Europe, again, Joe talked about our outlook for revenue
growth next year in high-voltage which is north of 50%. It's extremely strong. Can that growth
rate validate -- could it be -- can it jump around quarter to quarter, that will depend upon launch
volume or launch activity and where we're annualizing, so it's possible that you see some
fluctuation quarter to quarter. It's quite likely that it's not OEM generated or schedule generated,
it's more likely launch generated.
And then the third portion of your question with respect to high voltage, again, both on the
connector side as well as on the wire harness side, we think we're well positioned in each region
to meet demand and it's -- as we've said in the past, it's an attractive product portfolio for us.
And as you look at our underlying margin structure for the SPS business, the margin on that
product lines is actually higher than the margin on our more traditional product line.
Q - `Brian Johnson, Analyst, Barclays Bank PLC `
(inaudible) mean to ask.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I was just trying to -- as we've talked about same plant, same engineers, same supply
chain, so managing sort of volume -- managing volumes will not be overly challenging for that
product line.
Q - `Brian Johnson, Analyst, Barclays Bank PLC `
Yeah, so it's unlike diesel versus gas injectors of a company you used to own, it's not a major
reallocation from plant to plant, it's just different staffing and parts of the plan forward. If a --
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah.
Q - `Brian Johnson, Analyst, Barclays Bank PLC `
-- company, if an OEM decides to ramp up hybrids more than EVs or vice versa. Okay, great. And
I've got lots of other questions, which I'll do follow up later, thanks.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Chris McNally with Evercore. Your line is open.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Hey, Chris.
Q - `Christopher Patrick McNally, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Thank you so much, team. Hey, how is it going?A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Good.
Q - `Christopher Patrick McNally, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
I guess the first question, I mean, people are going to ask about Q1, the weakness we've -- we
definitely are starting to hear this from multiple suppliers, that you called out China very
specifically. Could you just maybe talk about how much you're building in some of that -- the
extreme current weakness from things like the virus or is this some of the spill over from excess
inventory that we had at the end of 2019?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. First, I would say it's more of what we're hearing from delayed start-ups following the New
Year. I mean, our schedules are fairly locked and sort of by the end of December had accounted
for any production shifts between Q4 and Q1 from our perspective. So this is really, we've got
customers now that I'd say on general are talking about coming back sort of no sooner than
February 9th or 10th, which is depending on business is anywhere from a week to almost two
weeks of delayed production from what we would normally have seen the yield [ph], SPS
business tends to go back a little bit earlier and the New Year break. So it's really just adjusting to
delayed start-ups.
And it's a fairly fluid situation as you might imagine. The dislocation of -- it's going to be really the
dislocation of labor that went home for the holidays and how quickly they can all come back,
either from a practical perspective or from a government mandate perspective, but that's
primarily it -- and that's -- call that if your looks or walk Q1 year-over-year OI, call it China, this is
the way production maybe $15 million or $20 million. Right now, we're expecting to make that up
in Q2. So we don't view this as a full year issue at the moment. And then, we do have some add
backs and we've talked about before, as we catch up in the first and second quarter to the
weaker RMB and Euro that happened in the second half of last year. We've got about another 20
in Q1 of FX and commodity impact in the OI line. So those two items are really everything that's in
Q1.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Chris, if I can add one thing, Joe. I think, one, I don't -- to make sure we're clear that it does not
include is, if there is a global disruption as a result of the issues, supply chain -- issues in China, if
there's anything meaningful, that's not incorporated into our outlook for the first quarter. So to
Joe's point, it's really focused on the impact in China, so it relates to China production.
Q - `Christopher Patrick McNally, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Okay, guys. That's very clear. And then just a quick second question on the investment for growth
in the EBIT walk and obviously, the investment in ADAS, where the bookings are quite strong.
Could you just give us a little bit of color to how much of this 50 basis points, it was quoted $70
million, I think on slide four, you gave the 8% of sales going to engineering, how much of that is
sort of staff engineering hires that occur in 2020, so that you get some leverage on that '21,
2022? First, we have to think about this drag going on, while your ADAS growth is good. So how
much is a step up for this year? First, we have to think about this as a continual drag in the walk
going forward?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `Yeah, I can start Chris, and gain Joe can make comments. Yes, listen, I think it's kind of two things.
Its run rate related to the back half of last year, quite frankly in terms of, we talked about or I
made the comment in my prepared comments with respect to an acceleration of our customer
opportunities. Clearly, those are things that we've been working on for some period of time. So it
relates to resources associated with the development of technologies, some of which, we
featured at CES, like advancing our radar technology, advancing our algorithm capability,
advancing our sensor fusion capability as well as advancing our -- at this point in time, ADAS
controller capability, resources associated with the development of that technology in integrating
-- integrating or operating with the customer.
And then lastly, as Joe said, some of it is execution of launch activity. So I think some portion of it
is into the baseline tailwind of 2019, then some step up into 2020, and that we wouldn't expect
an incremental step up like this, at least based on the opportunities that we see in front of us
today in 2021.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I would agree with that, Chris, this is leverageable spend as you get into the out years.
Q - `Christopher Patrick McNally, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Okay, great. Much appreciated. I'll follow-up with you guys after. Thanks so much.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Chris.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Galves with Wolfe Research. Your line is open.
Q - `Daniel V. Galves, Analyst, Wolfe Research, LLC `
Hey, good morning. Thank you.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Hey, Dan.
Q - `Daniel V. Galves, Analyst, Wolfe Research, LLC `
So -- hey, just wanted to ask about the China growth over market that kind of jumped out at me
only a couple of hundred basis points in 2020, like when this has been running like pretty high,
kind of into the double digits most of 2019. Can you just talk about some of the reasons behind
that and it's -- one of your -- leader [ph] the other day, really kind of called out some of the US
automaker underperformance in 2020 as a reason for them kind of having a lower growth rate
than the market. I just wanted to kind of ask about what's happening there.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I'll make the first comment and Joe can go through all the details. Listen, as it relates to
OEM mix, we have exposure to some of those customers, that have had lower or weaker
revenue growth in the China market for the last year or two, so quite frankly when you look at
2020, I don't think that story, or we don't think that story is any different. And in 2019, as youtiming associated with program launches and in any given quarter or any given year, you see
growth relative to market. You can see swings or adjustments. As you head into 2021, we would
expect that growth over market to return to more normalized levels for us, which tend to be high-
single low-double digit growth over market.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, and I agree. Our fourth quarter was very strong for us, since there was a lot of launch
activity. So as we've looked out on 2020, it's really -- we just assume we lapped those launches in
Q4. At this point, we don't see launch activity in the back half of the year that would bring us up
Dan, so we see it coming back on 2021, but from a -- from what you'd -- what we'd expect the
business to do as Kevin mentioned, high voltage continues to be very strong in China. Some of
the lapped launches are on active safety. But for us it's -- that growth over market doesn't sort of
shoot straight every quarter. And I think that's all we're seeing, it's very specific to what we've
launched, it's not sort of a broader customer macro question for us, it's very specific to our launch
cadence.
Q - `Daniel V. Galves, Analyst, Wolfe Research, LLC `
Got it. And just one other one. As I think about the business a little bit longer term, can you talk
about the timing of the launches of some of these higher value scalable Active Safety L2, L2 plus
awards? Are you seeing launch activity in the back half of '20 yet or are we waiting till mostly
2021?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
No, you'll begin to see in 2020 and then each year following that, Dan. So a significant amount of
launch activity, which really reflects that growth rate we talked about right? The $1.03 billion to
$2.5 billion over the next couple of years. And as I mentioned in our comments or we mentioned
in our comments, we see an opportunity to actually accelerate that growth in the out years and
that's what support fee and we invest the incremental investment we're talking about this year.
Q - `Daniel V. Galves, Analyst, Wolfe Research, LLC `
Great, thanks a lot guys.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Spak with RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.
Q - `Joseph Robert Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Thanks, good morning everyone.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Hi, Joe.
Q - `Joseph Robert Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
And yeah, thanks for all the helpful color on the walks. I guess, on slide 19, if I try to like normalize
2019 margins or pro forma that I guess for let's say three quarters in the mobility, it seems like
you're guiding margins pretty flat year-over-year despite the growth, and I get the 60 basis
points of investment, you talked about that, I think that's understandable, but it also then impliesthat even though you're getting productivity, it might not be fully offsetting some of the price,
and I know you've taken a lot of actions and there has been some tariff mitigation. So is there
something else we need to consider that sort of plugs that algorithm?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Joe, we're close. I mean if you look, adjusted for FX [ph] exclude the JV. We're at about 10 basis
points of margin expansion for the year. Our target as we talked about on Investor Day last year
was closer to 20 basis points in a flattish market. So we're at 10 basis points in a down three
market. So obviously we are kind of -- type of folks that always want to see more, but there is an
element -- there is some down vehicle production, we do have to absorb that. There is a lot of
other offsets occurring, right? A lot of other products -- projects. So from -- for us, a 10 basis
point, at down 3% production is kind of where we feel like we need the business to be just given
out -- just given the overall investments and again, when we talked about sort of up 20 basis
points in a year that was -- that was much more in a flattish production environment.
Q - `Joseph Robert Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Okay, thanks. And then just on, in AS and UX, you know that we have always talked a lot -- we
always talk a lot about ADAS and zone controllers. Kevin, I heard you mentioned, I think three
driver monitoring wins. It's not something I've heard you talk a lot about in the past, but it's clearly
an important feature going forward, especially since I think it's required for euro end cap. So, like
how big is that business, how fast is it going to grow within active safety? It seems like it's maybe
under-penetrated versus the rest of ADAS and like, what's the margin profile of that versus --
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. No, no. So dollars [ph] today are extremely small, market growth rate in our growth rate,
extremely fast. So we think over the next handful of years, market size can get up to $2 billion.
Joe, we think we can get to roughly somewhere between 20% and 40% market share in that
market. It dovetails perfectly with what we're doing from an ADAS platform or system standpoint.
It's necessary to your point for euro end cap just as important, though it's necessary really to
optimize when you think about Traffic Jam Assist, highway assist, highway pilot, those sorts of
activities, you need that technology in the car. So it's an area that we have a significant amount of
focus within the traditional ASUEX business and when you think about mobility on demand, it's an
area where the folks in our AD business are very focused as they look at additional services that
they can provide their ridesharing customers. So we're excited about it, but it's a very small
revenue amount -- revenue amount today.
Q - `Joseph Robert Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
So then as that grows, presumably that scale similarly to sort of how you talked about other
aspects of ADAS in the past as well to -- from a margin perspective?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, that is the margin rate that, that is in the line with what we've talked about ADAS when
ADAS gets to full scale.
Q - `Joseph Robert Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Okay, thank you very much.A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG with Deutsche Bank. Your line is
open.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
Good morning, everybody.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Good morning.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
So, I wanted to come back to the engineering investments in AS and UX.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
If I understand your message, there is this large step up, but it's not, sort of -- that it's not
expected to keep stepping up this way beyond sort of 2020. Can you just maybe go over, how
should we think about then the margin profile, the normalized margin profile of that business is
taking additional step back ex mobility investment this year? Obviously you have a longer-term
framework from various investors that is for pretty decent amount of margin expansion. So is it
really just a function of that beyond this year's investment, we sort of like go back to these 30
bps or 50 bps of annual margin expansion or are there any other consideration or ADAS is just an
expense, sort of --
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
No -- I --
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
Yeah, go ahead.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I think as we -- well, a couple of comments. I mean, first just to put it into context and listen,
we focus on every penny we spend. Our guidance is roughly $2.5 billion of EBITDA in 2020. And
our view is, given the number of opportunities that are in front of us, given our competitive
position and given the chance to what we've -- we believe really expand our competitive moat
investing an additional $70 million plus is a smart thing to do near-term and long term. So I want
to start with that. Second, our Active Safety business today has margin, had double-digit
operating margins.So it's a profitable business. As we scale. And I think Joe made the comment that you should view
this investment as scalable investments. As we continue to scale, given the nature of this
business, given how we've structured scalable platforms, our ADAS product line is a product line
that only have margins well in excess of our traditional kind of where we're running at now low
double-digit operating margins, right? We should get strong software. So you should see
something from an ADAS standpoint, including both hardware and software that's in the high
teens. So it's a very, very attractive space for us to play.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
Okay, that's helpful. And then I guess on the -- in SMPS [ph], on the other hand obviously,
extremely strong operating leverage and incremental margins and strong outlook on margin
improvement for this year. Can you maybe just walk over some of the drivers of this high
incremental margins? I mean, I assume electrification being part of the existing footprint, is
obviously helpful and I think that's sort of our part of the scenario [ph] or can we sort of assume
these continues?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, no, I think we're on the trajectory, where we expect it to be on with that business, that
seem has done a really nice job across all the product lines. And I think you hit it on the head,
Emmanuel, it's important, the high-voltage growth, that's a business that we've talked about was
-- even a relatively small product line that sort of hit segment margins very quickly because of the
nature of the business, the same -- we really can run that business on the same cost structure as
the low voltage. And then we're getting benefits of the scale in that business, again, we got
content on one out of every 3.5 vehicles manufactured globally. So even if it's not our active
safety system or our -- even our high voltage system, you tend to see more electrical content
going into vehicles globally. So you've got a got a healthy tailwind at the back of that business
helping with the leverage, so that's playing out as expected.
And again, when we looked at all the opportunities in ASUX to invest, the performance and the
Active Safety product line itself, as Kevin mentioned, and where we were with SPS margin
expansion, that's really what gave us the confidence to continue to invest in the Active Safety
business.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I would add -- I'd break it down into three big buckets. Share gains in our connection
systems business, so strong growth as Joe highlighted, right at, and as you know, that's an
attractive margin profile. Product line execution, so we talked about high voltage and growth of
that, that particular product area across both our EDS and CS product lines.
And then thirdly, I -- just execution, especially in the EDS business, our management team there
has done an excellent job, especially in 2019, in terms of just blocking and tackling in operational
improvements. I think the best example there quite frankly is China, where you know what vehicle
production -- the decline of vehicle production last year, that China team was able to basically
achieve their business plan forecast at much lower volumes. So the ability to execute on what is a
complex manufacturing and supply chain business has translated into the margin improvement
that we're talking about, it seemed they did an outstanding job.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
Yeah, definitely. Many thanks.Operator
Your next question comes from the line of John Murphy with Bank of America. Your line is open.
Q - `John Joseph Murphy, Analyst, BofA Merrill Lynch `
Hi, good morning guys.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Good morning, John.
Q - `John Joseph Murphy, Analyst, BofA Merrill Lynch `
Just a first question, follow-up on the incremental $70 million being spent on the Active Safety
side, I mean, I would imagine if this was sort of longer term R&D, it would be in the JV, so it's
pretty safe to assume that this has real near-term implications for product in this year and
probably in the next two to three years. Is that kind of a fair statement?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
It is -- it is, but let me give you a little background, remember that the JV is really focused on that,
Level 4, 5 robotaxi space. So anything that's Level 2 plus, plus Level 3, early stage Level 4 for
consumer fleets, for our normal traditional customers, that stayed with us. So you're right. This
has got investment across sort of that, what I'd say is really the sort of the 2 plus, plus 3 type
spectrum and it's, yeah, it's -- if you look at some of the advanced developments Kevin has
talked about, that's to make sure we can secure the $5 billion of bookings, plus that Kevin
mentioned for 2020 continue to grow the business, yeah --
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And maybe -- and
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Support the launches of what we're doing currently. So that's fair.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I think as -- John as we've talked before, the demand for Level 2, Level 2 plus and even
Level 3 with some OEMs, we're seeing that activity -- over the last 12, 18 months, we've seen that
activity significantly increase. So the investment is in response to pursuing those opportunities.
Q - `John Joseph Murphy, Analyst, BofA Merrill Lynch `
Okay. So if we can also dovetail that or sort of put the JV next to that, I mean, is there any need
to step up spending there that you're seeing just as that technology is advancing and might be
longer-dated as opposed to realization, how much sort of financial control do you have on sort of
that decision making process? And if you could just remind us how the cash flow either works or
doesn't work between you and that JV?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, a JV is a separate legal entity, our partner has three Board members. We have three Board
members. So we still have a significant amount of control and visibility as it relates to the jointventure's strategy and the direction it's going in. The management team running the joint-venture
entity is the existing management team from our automated driving business headed by Collier
Nordman [ph] and his team. We haven't finalized numbers at this point in time, but I think given
the opportunity and given some of the vehicle capabilities that the -- that our partner brings that
you should expect a ramp up in spending as it relates to vehicle validation and vehicle integration.
It's a 50-50 joint venture. Obviously, half of that from a P&L impact flows through our P&L as it
relates to cash, Hyundai is putting $1.06 billion of cash in at close. So our view is, that's enough
money or enough cash to fund the development and commercialization of the technology over
the next several years, Joe?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. We've talked before about it being sort of enough to fund four to five years and to Kevin's
point is, as the JV comes together, and we start to look at the vehicle capabilities of the
commercialization opportunities with Hyundai, it's possible the business spends, the JV spends
more in '21 and 2022. But will -- certainly would come from the funding from Hyundai.
Q - `John Joseph Murphy, Analyst, BofA Merrill Lynch `
So, no cash flow from you at all at this point?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
No.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
None -- no, none required over the next couple of years.
Q - `John Joseph Murphy, Analyst, BofA Merrill Lynch `
Yeah. And then just lastly, real quickly on SVA. I mean, is there anything that is in the backlog or
we're still in sort of RFI stage for that and also as we think about what you're talking about the
growth above market. I mean is there ever going to be a period where the Signal and Power
actually might have higher outgrowth than Active Safety and User Experience or is it going to be a
facilitator for growth on that side? I'm just curious if we'll see a flip sometime in 2022 to plug on
that?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, John, I don't think we would envision a flip relative to the growth rates you see in ADAS, so
I think just given the nature of that markets, the market opportunity. Having said that, we think
there is opportunities especially with the mix of high-voltage and -- a mix of some of the product
portfolio that we have in the connection systems business to grow kind of mid-single digit over
underlying vehicle production, including both the impact of our non-automotive as well as our
automotive connector portfolio. But by and large, it's an enabler of all the software and other
items that we're talking about.
As it relates to SVA again, I mean, our view is there is a portion of this as the activity that's all --
that is already started with domain centralization and some of the cockpit controllers, the Active
Safety controllers, some of the programs that we've actually already won. With respect to SVA
specific and what we showed at CES, we're working today with -- we have three advanced
development programs with two automotive OEs, those programs are going to come forwardwith RFIs or RFQs in the coming months. So the commercial opportunity, hopefully we have
something to report in terms of business wins this calendar year and revenue shortly thereafter.
Q - `John Joseph Murphy, Analyst, BofA Merrill Lynch `
Great, thank you very much.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, John.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of David Leiker with Baird. Your line is open.
Q - `Erin Wilson, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co. `
Good morning. This is actually `Erin Wilson, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co. [ph] back on for David. So my question really --
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Hi Erin.
Q - `Erin Wilson, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co. `
-- pertains to your ability to drive growth in the non-auto businesses just this year. Obviously
you've acquired a number of businesses over the last couple of years. And so, from an organic
perspective at least, I'm wondering how the opportunity set is developing and your ability to drive
growth even in a declining commercial vehicle market this year.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, the HellermannTyton business is probably the best business when you think non auto,
overall, non-auto and that's a business that for the last several years, outside of auto has been
growing high-single low-double digits. And we'd expect it to continue to grow in that sort of a
range for the foreseeable future. I think when you look at the other acquisitions we made, and
given their mix in Mil-Aero, industrial and some of the other markets, again those have been
solid, mid high single-digit growth rates.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
That's right. And then with -- as it relates to commercial vehicle, we're still -- just given our
relatively low penetration, we're still sort of years away from having a cycle discussion about CV.
We still have a lot of content growth opportunities and it's really -- it's really sort of a greenfield
for us when we get into some of the CV markets, particularly around SPS, the connector business,
HellermannTyton's focus on CV, so while it impacts us at some level, we're still able to grow well
above CV market at this point.
A - `Elena Rosman, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Yeah, Erin, that would equate to low single digit commercial vehicle revenue growth in a
commercial vehicle market, that's going to be down high single digit.
Q - `Erin Wilson, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co. `Great, thanks for taking my question.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks.
Operator
Your last question.
A - `Elena Rosman, Vice President, Investor Relations `
We have time for one more question.
Operator
Okay. Your last question comes from line of Dan Levy with Credit Suisse. Your line is open.
Q - `Dan Meir Levy, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Hi, good morning and thanks for --
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Good morning, Dan.
Q - `Dan Meir Levy, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
-- squeezing me in. Hey. Just, just a quick one on the guidance as it relates to the JV, the
deconsolidation. I believe in the past you noted it's EPS neutral. So just if you could provide some
context on the 10%, EPS would have been up 10% for equity income and also I see that you have
implied performance JV deconsolidation of the 200 bps benefit on margins. That's like $290
million. I assume, of that $290 million, that $130 million of that is the non-repeat of the mobility
spend? So, just some color on that -- on the guidance for?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, you're about right. We've got about, round numbers $40 million, $40 million plus in Q1. And
then on a end of Q1 close, about $130 million sort of geography moves down to the equity
income line and then that will be augmented by the step up in purchase accounting, that the JV
has to go through, which will basically make it EPS neutral. So the way, my comments were EPS
growth is up 2% as reported. If you'd sort of calculate it, EPS before the equity income effect of
the JV we were up 10%. So that's the negative EPS impact from the JV coming out of the equity
income line.
Q - `Dan Meir Levy, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Great, thank you. And then just lastly, wanted to ask a more strategic question on the JV. It's
obviously focused on Level 4 technology, but I think one of the benefits you've cited in the past is
an opportunity to use the learnings and to actually really refine your Level 2 plus and your Level 3
product. So -- but this is a JV and you do have a partner. So, to what extent our expectations are
really aligned with your JV partner as it relates to the JV is focused on purely Level 4 technology
versus your expectation to leverage this JV to improve your Level 2 plus and Level 3 product?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `Yeah. Listen, it's closely aligned. It's very closely aligned. So we have the opportunity to provide
products and services to the joint venture and vice versa. And, given our historical relationship in
our future relationship, both continue to be real opportunity to share information, share best
practices and ultimately, we hope at least to create incremental commercializable opportunities,
and that's something that our joint venture partner is very supportive of as are we. So that
interaction will continue.
Q - `Dan Meir Levy, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Great, thank you very much.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Matthew. Okay, well thank you everyone. We appreciate you joining for -- joining us for
our Q4 earnings call. Have a great day.
Operator
And this concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.