Q4 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, and welcome to the Aptiv Fourth Quarter 2020 Earnings Conference Call. My name is
Simon and I will be your conference operator today. All lines have been placed on mute to
prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer
session. Thank you.
`Elena Rosman, Vice President of Investor Relations, Aptiv, Vice President of Investor Relations, you may begin your conference.
`Elena Rosman, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Simon, and good morning and thank you to everyone for joining Aptiv's fourth quarter
2020 earnings conference call. To follow along with today's presentation, our slides can be found
at ir.aptiv.com. Today's review of our actual financials exclude restructuring and other special
items, and will address the continuing operations of Aptiv.
The reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP measures for both our Q4 financials, as well as
our outlook for the full year 2021 are included in the back of today's presentation and the
earnings release -- the earnings press release.
Turning to Slide two. Please see a disclosure on forward-looking statements, which reflect Aptiv's
current view of future financial performance, which may be materially different from our actual
performance for reasons that we cite in our Form 10-K and other SEC filings, including
uncertainties posed by the COVID-19 pandemic and the difficulty in predicting its future course
and impact on the global economy.
Joining us today will be Kevin Clark, Aptiv's President and CEO; and Joe Massaro, CFO and
Senior Vice President of Business Operations. Kevin will provide a strategic update on the
business and then Joe will cover the financial results and our outlook in more detail.
With that, I would like to turn the call over to Kevin Clark.
`Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `Thank you Elena and thank you everyone for joining us today. Our 2020 results and our outlook
for the year ahead, underscore the work we've done to build a stronger and more sustainable
business, one that grow faster and more profitably and generates more consistent earnings and
cash flows.
I'm proud of how well our teams performed during these difficult times, and it remains
challenging to meet recovery demand, while managing through the COVID-19 pandemic and the
further tightening of the global supply chain. Our continued resiliency, as a result of the passion
and the commitment of our team members to deliver for our customers and our shareholders.
And as a result, we experienced strong fourth quarter financial results. Revenue increased 14% to
$4.2 billion, representing 13 points of growth over the underlying market. Operating income and
earnings per share totaled $476 million and $1.13 respectively, resulting from strong volume
growth, partially offset by incremental manufacturing and logistics expenses, associated with
ongoing supply chain challenges, which I'll cover in more detail shortly. Our 2020 results further
validate our business strategy, including revenue growth of 10 points over market and $18 billion
of new business awards reflecting our unique position, at the intersection of the safe, green and
connected megatrends that are accelerating in our industry.
Moving to Slide four. As we entered the start of the economic recovery, we faced a new set of
supply chain challenges, while also continuing to operate safely in the midst of the COVID- 19
pandemic. Our outlook for 2021 reflects market share gains and content growth in our key
product lines, including high voltage electrification and active safety, driving 16% revenue growth,
six points over underlying vehicle production and translating into strong margin expansion and
earnings growth.
We also are forecasting significant cash flow generation and our ability to reinvest that cash to
deliver incremental value creation, is a key component of our investment thesis. At the same
time, we're closely monitoring and adjusting to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, is having in
our operating environment. And our industry is now facing increased pressure from a global
shortage in semiconductor chips, impacting virtually all of our suppliers and customers around the
world. As a result, we expect the environment to remain challenging for at least the first half of
the year and it reflected the uncertainty associated with OEM production schedules and the
timing of replenished inventory levels in our full-year forecast for vehicle production, which we
now expect to increase 10% in 2021.
While our team is doing an excellent job minimizing these effects, as customers, idle plants and
look to prioritize certain vehicle platforms. The costs associated with the related labor and
manufacturing inefficiencies and higher logistics expenses, have been included in our financial
outlook for the full year. Due to limited visibility to near-term production schedules, this precludes
us from providing guidance for the first quarter. However, our confidence in the strength of the
underlying economic recovery combined with the planned second half increase in semiconductor
capacity, does give us a reasonable level of confidence in our full-year outlook, which Joe will
cover in more detail shortly.
Turning to Slide five, despite the challenges we currently face, we remain focused on further
enhancing our track record of outperformance and long-term value creation. While our business
model has been tested over the last several months, our performance is validated our industry-
leading position and through cycle resiliency. As we look ahead, we positioned Aptiv to continue
to outperform with focused investments that have enhanced our business model and expanded
the addressable markets we served, leveraging our unique brain and nervous system capabilities
to deliver even more content on the electrified, software defined vehicles of the future. Yieldingaccretive growth opportunities in our two business segments and presenting incremental value
creation opportunities through smart capital deployment and delivering meaningful shareholder
returns, as the economic recovery unfolds.
As shown on Slide six, fourth quarter new business bookings totaled $7.5 billion, reflecting robust
win rates and a ramp up in consumer activity. Full-year 2020 bookings reached $18 billion roughly
flat compared to 2019 levels, when you adjust for the current outlook for global vehicle
production. Our Advanced Safety and User Experience segment, new business bookings totaled
$4.7 billion for the year, including $3.7 billion in active safety awards. New business bookings for
our Signal and Power Solutions segment totaled more than $13 billion, including another $2 billion
of high-voltage electrification awards. We continue to see an acceleration of powertrain
electrification, driven by both more stringent CO2 regulations, principally in Europe and China and
the increasing momentum of consumer acceptance in the US.
Our complementary high-voltage distribution and connection systems, as well as cable
management solutions, significantly reduce the weight and mass of the vehicle architecture
through smarter, more efficient design, perfectly positioning Aptiv to benefit from the twofold
increase in addressable content, on a high-voltage electric vehicle.
In summary, the cumulative amount of our new business bookings over the last few years, gives
us confidence in our ability to sustain strong above market growth across both of our business
segments. Validating the strength of our portfolio of market relevant technologies aligned to the
safe, green and connected megatrends.
Turning to Slide seven, Aptiv is enabling our customers to accelerate their transition to an
electrified, software-defined vehicle by employing a more holistic engineering and development
approach to optimize the software and system solutions to span the full vehicle stack.
Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, we continue to fully fund strategic growth initiatives and last
month we unveiled the latest result of those investments, in our innovation and motion virtual
event, which included Aptiv smart vehicle architecture, which represents Aptiv's vision for the full,
electrical and electronic architecture of the vehicle.
FCA represents a scalable approach that lowers the total cost of ownership for our OEM
customers, while unlocking more value in the vehicle at the point of aggregation, creating new
hardware and software revenue opportunities for both Aptiv and our OEM customers. Our
industry-leading position in domain controllers and expertise in advanced ADAS solutions,
provides a terrific launching pad, as we work with our customers on their next-gen architecture
solutions.
For customers, on the path to SVA, we unveiled our next-gen ADAS platform, leveraging our
deep systems expertise, and learning from deploying the industry's largest, most diverse, safety
installed base over the last 20 years, with active safety technologies and used by 20 different
global automakers. We also highlighted our new approach to Zone Controllers, which leverages
insights from our unique position with both the brain and nervous system of the vehicle to safely
and efficiently distribute power and up-integrate body functionality, while simplifying the vehicle
manufacturing process, thereby enhancing the scalability of advanced vehicle architecture,
systems.
Aptiv will be the first to market with Zone Control, with the European OEM in 2022 and we have a
robust pipeline of commercial pursuits plan for 2021. Electrification is also an integral part of the
SVA roadmap and Aptiv has emerged as a partner of choice, capable of providing
comprehensive and optimize high voltage solutions to our customers. That agility has led toincreased share of wallet, with both leading and emerging electric vehicle manufacturers,
ramping up production globally.
Including a leading US EV company, as well as companies such as Rivian, NIO and Volkswagen.
Lastly, many of these same advancements apply inside the cabin, where we've developed a
scalable user-experience platform solution, enhancing performance, while reducing total systems
costs through seamless integration of multiple functional domains.
As we look to 2021 and beyond, the innovation that we have in motion, will further expand our
competitive moat and take us closer to our mission of delivering a safer, greener and more
connected future of mobility. Before turning it over to Joe, on Slide eight, I want to take a
moment to highlight a number of commercial and technological milestones at Motional our
automated driving joint venture with the Hyundai Motor Group. In December Motional announced
an agreement with Lyft, to launch our multi-market robo-taxi service in major US cities, beginning
in 2023, utilizing a scalable automated mobility on-demand vehicle platform, developed in
partnership with Hyundai and available to customers beginning in 2022.
Last year Motional also entered into a partnership with Via, to deploy self-driving vehicles on their
network in a city to be announced soon. And in January Motional announced a partnership to
deploy Cox Automotive Mobility's Pivet, as our premier fleet service provider. Beginning with
Motional self-driving fleet in Las Vegas, this partnership lays the foundation to support the
company, as it expands the market for robo-taxis in other major US cities. These commercial
developments are underpinned by rigorous third-party validation and safety assessments, which
have allowed Motional to receive approval for testing of fully driverless systems on public roads in
Nevada, in early 2021.
In summary, Motional made tremendous progress, delivering on its commitments in 2020, paving
the way for commercial success in the years to come.
I'll now hand the call over to Joe Massaro for an overview of our financial results. Joe.
`Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks Kevin and good morning everyone. Starting on Slide nine, the recovery momentum in the
fourth quarter generated strong sales, income and cash performance in the quarter, despite
significant incremental safety, manufacturing and logistics costs associated with operating with
COVID and the mounting supply chain constraints.
Revenues of $4.2 billion were up 14% year-over-year, significantly ahead of vehicle production,
which was up 1% in the quarter. The stronger than expected sales volumes resulted in adjusted
EBITDA of $678 million, up 40 basis points compared to the prior year, reflecting stronger
volumes and disciplined cost management, partially offset by approximately $70 million of COVID
and supply chain related costs.
Earnings per share in the quarter were $1.13, reflecting higher operating income, offset by the
Motional JV and higher share count and tax expense. Operating cash flow was strong at $799
million, driven by higher EBITDA and lower year-over-year cash taxes. Lastly, capital expenditures
were $95 million, bringing the total to $584 million for the year, just under our $600 million
outlook.
Looking at fourth quarter revenues in more detail on Slide 10. Globally we benefited from
stronger vehicle production, as well as increased demand for high-voltage electrical architecture
and engineered components, primarily in Europe and China. North America revenues grew 11%despite the market being flat, driven by new launch volume and favorable truck in SUV platform
mix.
In Europe, the trend of strong double-digit market outgrowth continued as the production
rebound benefited active, safety and high voltage electrification programs. Lastly, our China
growth was 9%, outpacing the market and expectations, as a stronger recovery in sales led to
production upside with our major customers, including high voltage launch volumes. Moving to the
segments on the next slide. Advanced safety and user experience revenues increased 7% in the
quarter, reflecting six points of growth over underlying vehicle production, including double-digit
active safety growth in all three major regions.
Segment EBITDA declined 1%, excluding the impact of the Motional JV consolidation, primarily
driven by the COVID and supply chain cost Kevin mentioned earlier. Signal and power solutions
revenue were up 17%, reflecting 16 points of growth over market. We also saw strong growth
across all product lines and regions, including demand for high-voltage electrification products in
Europe and China, favorable truck and SUV platform mix in North America and industrial end-
market recovery globally. EBITDA in the segment increased 17%, a strong sales growth offset
additional costs and FX and commodities, in the quarter.
Turning now to slide 12, and the 2021 macro outlook. As Kevin mentioned earlier, the worldwide
shortage of semiconductors impacting the auto industry is limiting near-term production visibility.
Based on our discussions with customers and suppliers, we expect the intermittent disruptions to
continue during the first half of the year and assuming industry should recover the majority of lost
production units, tied to these shortages during the second half of the year.
Accordingly, we will not be providing guidance for the first quarter, as there was a high likelihood
of vehicle production shifting between the first and second quarters. However, we believe we
have adequately reflect of the current situation in our guidance for full-year 2021, which estimates
global vehicle production of 84 million units, up 10%. Looking at the regions in North America and
Europe improved levels of demand should support stronger production rates, while a more
modest recovery is planned for China, following a sharp bounce-back in demand, starting in the
second quarter last year.
While the supply chain -- remains extremely tight, we are doing everything we can for our
customers to meet increased levels of demand and we are confident our leading industry
position and technologies aligned to the safe, green and connected megatrends will continue to
yield strong growth above market, consistent with the framework we have previously provided.
Turning to Slide 13, despite the uncertainty that remains near-term, we are confident in the
guidance range for 2021. For the year, we expect revenue to be in the range of $15.1 billion to
$15.7 billion, up 16% at the midpoint was six points of growth over market driven by our portfolio
of relevant technologies. EBITDA and operating income are expected to be $2.4 billion and $1.6
billion at the midpoint, respectively with margins approaching 2019 levels, despite a $100 million
of COVID related operating costs and given the volatility in customer schedules and supply chain
disruptions, we are incurring additional manufacturing and logistics costs which we have
estimated at $80 million for the year.
Lastly, benefits of our ongoing performance initiatives are more than offsetting the lapping of
$150 million of austerity measures taken in 2020, during the pandemic related shutdowns. We
expect earnings per share in the range of $3.35 and $3.85 a share or $4.20 to $4.70 per share,
when excluding the impact of the equity losses of our Motional joint venture.High year-over-year, non-cash operating losses in the Motional JV reflect the finalization of
purchase accounting, in addition to higher spending as Motional prepares to meet the
commercial milestones Kevin highlighted earlier. Lastly, we expect operating cash flow of $1.85
billion.
Turning to Slide 14 on the segments, beginning with Advanced Safety and User Experience. We
expect growth over market of 13 points, translating into approximately $4.4 billion of revenue in
2021, driven by new launches and continued strong active safety growth. EBITDA margins of
approximately 13% reflect five points of expansion of 2020's depressed levels.
Signal and Power Solutions revenues of approximately $11 billion reflects four points of growth
over underlying vehicle production with content accretive growth and high voltage electrification
up 50% year-over-year. Our CV and industrial end-markets are also expected to outgrow the
industrial market. We expect EBITDA margins approaching 17% up 250 basis points year-over-
year and reflect favorable volume growth, partially offset by the dilutive margin rate impact of
higher copper prices.
We thought it would be helpful to walk revenue and EBITDA compared to 2019 levels on Slide 15.
Starting with revenue on the left, despite a 10% reduction in industry volumes, we expect 2021
revenues to be 7% higher than 2019 at the midpoint. The investments we've made to add scale
in our fastest growing product lines like active, safety, high-voltage electrification and Engineered
Components are generating sustained strong growth over market. And we expect a modest
tailwind on FX and commodities, which combined more than offset our normal price downs.
Moving to the right hand side of the slide and adjusted EBITDA, the benefits of our flexible and
scalable cost structure are driving strong volume flow-through on higher revenues. And the
benefits of our performance initiatives, yielding EBITDA of $2.4 billion at the midpoint.
As you can see, we are expected to recover to 2019 EBITDA margins in 2021, despite the
ongoing operational impact of COVID and the supply chain disruptions. This is a true testament
to our relentless focus on disciplined and accretive revenue growth and cost structure
optimization, creating an even more sustainable business with the ability to outperform in any
environment.
Turning to cash flow on the next slide. Our sustainable business model is enabling us to convert
more income to cash, generating higher operating cash flow and free cash flow conversion. As
we approach a more normalized business environment, we expect operating cash flows of $1.85
billion in 2021 above 2019 levels, with free cash flow conversion of greater than 100%. This
assumes approximately $160 million of restructuring cash outflows and CapEx of $750 million.
Consistent with our target of funding levels of 5% of sales.
With cash flow growing strong double digits, there is no shortage of attractive reinvestment
opportunities. We will continue to maintain a consistent approach to capital deployment, aligned
to our strategic framework. Our M&A strategy remains focused on transactions that enhance our
scalability, accelerate speed to market and also provide access to new addressable markets. We
believe highly disciplined capital deployment is a major differentiator for Aptiv and an important
lever for shareholder value generation. With that I'd like to hand the call back to Kevin for his
closing remarks.
`Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Joe. I'll now wrap up on Slide 17 before we open it up for Q&A. As we navigate 2021, and
the new challenges ahead, it goes without saying that we remain laser focused on delivering onour commitments and continuing our track record of outperformance, while advancing our vision
of the Company in 2025 and beyond.
This vision is the extension of our business strategy, which is enabled by our industry-leading
competitive position and execution capabilities. Delivering our vision results in a more sustainable
business defined by an improved and more predictable growth profile, increased profitability
through global scale and accretive growth opportunities on the path to electrified smart vehicle
architecture, the accelerated compounding of earnings and cash flow generation and additional
value creation upside from the disciplined -- deployment of that cash. We're well positioned to
continue moving forward, a company with a strong financial position, low cost of capital and the
flexibility to reinvest in its people, processes and portfolio to create significant value for its
customers, for its employees and for its shareholders.
So with that we'll open up the line for Q&A.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you very much sir. (Operator Instructions) And we'll now move to our first question over the
phone, which comes from `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Hey everybody. So Kevin. Hey, look I never congratulate people on good quarters. And I'm not
going to do that here because we all know good companies are not made on good quarters,
they're made on good strategy and what we're seeing here is really I think a great strategy
coming together, so just how to say that.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Thank you very much.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you very much.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Just from the outside. It really must be said and more to come, but two questions, first on
Motional. Okay. My first thought is if this thing really works, Motional -- the Motional JV stake,
maybe you're just your share of it could be worth more than all of Aptiv. Okay. Now there is an
arms race going on as these autonomous players, Waymo, Cruise et cetera, kind of get close to
deployment. And even by your own growth and losses, it looks like you are keeping up with that.
So what's the plan to add capital or to access capital for that unit, and could we see 2021 be a
year, where we see greater visibility in tapping different sources of capital. That's my first
question.
And my follow-up is more specific on FPCB or the Flexible Printed Circuit Board technology, which
I'm sure you are very familiar with. So maybe this is one for Glen, but we're starting to get
questions about the role of this technology to really dramatically simplify electrical architecture,
we understand Tesla wants to use it too, but that is not really in production yet, there is issues. It's
just not ready for prime times, would love your color on. Is this the kind of where is Aptiv on thatdevelopment path and when could you see that type of technology coming into production.
Thanks.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, great. Those are two great questions. So on Motional listen, we've made tremendous
progress over the last couple of years, significant progress last year with our partner Hyundai.
And as I went through a list of announcements that were made during 2020, you'll see more
announcements made as it relates to 2021 from a technology standpoint and from a commercial
standpoint, Adam, the business is on track from a resource standpoint, there's been a significant
investment in resources, in and around technology, in and around areas that are accelerating the
underlying technology.
As you know, we have vehicles on the road today, we finished -- or completed our GEN1 platform,
which you'll see out on the road in Las Vegas soon and we'll have our GEN2 platform available for
sale to customers commercially beginning in 2022, so a tremendous amount of progress. As it
relates to capital, recall the transaction, HMG contributed $1.4 billion of cash back in March of
2020, we're using that cash to make the investments that we've talked about, both of us as
partners, are focused on how do we develop the technology and how do we maximize value. So
we're completely aligned on value creation and value creation within that business, if you know
what I mean. So focused on how do we drive value through Motional.
To the extent we see opportunities where our view on value of the business aligns with ones
willingness to contribute capital, that's something that we as partners will evaluate, and it's
something that will continue to monitor. But at this point in time, we feel like, at this point in time,
we have more than enough capital for the foreseeable future to continue to accelerate our
investment. But it's something again that we continue to watch and we watch closely.
So I would not refer to capital as a constraint. On the Flexible Printed Circuit Boards, as you know,
we've been very focused on vehicle architecture for the last several years and how do we
develop solutions for customers that reduce the constraints associated with traditional vehicle
architecture. So how do we remove copper content, how do we replace that with real value-
added content like the Flexible Printed Circuit Board technology that you're talking about, which
overall is a part of our SVA solution.
So that's technology -- that actually is under development, it's actually technology that we're in
discussions with multiple OEMs about. And as you know, we have relationships with several of the
leading OEMs even though -- even those who I would say are less traditional OEMs who've been
evolving vehicle architecture and have been most aggressive, as it relates to changing vehicle
architecture. So that we can separate software from hardware and there is going to be more to
come there, we feel like we're a leader, given our position with the brain and nervous system. We
feel like there is a number of opportunities for us. As I mentioned, we've been in discussions and
development programs, with a number of OEMs and we'll keep you and others updated on our
progress.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thanks, Kevin.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks.Operator
We will now move to our next question over the phone, which comes from `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets from
RBC Capital Markets. Please go ahead.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Thank you. Good morning, everyone.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Hi, good morning.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Maybe to start first question just on the free cash flow, which is really strong this quarter and the
guidance $1.1 million, impressive especially still has a $160 million restructuring in there. I'm not
sure if you could sort of that an elevated level of it, more and going to be curious your thoughts
there, but you mentioned the conversion over 100%, even if you back out the Motional loss is still
like around 90%.
So, is that the right new level of conversion that we see that this company can start converting
that going forward.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Joe, do you, -- why don't you take that?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. Yeah Joe, that has been the target for a while. We've talked about moving sort of -- even if
you go back to the Capital Market Days in 2017 and 2019 about a steady march up to the 90%
and that's where we believe we are. You're right, the Motional math gives us a bit of a boost
there as well. But yeah, I think that's the right range.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Okay. And then Kevin just because this is a question, we've been getting increasingly, is there's a
lot of headlines flying around and we're seeing different automakers take different software
strategy right to you [ph]. Volkswagen trying to move some of the in-house, and others
partnering like, if you saw the Ford and Google announcement, I believe that was this week.
How do you view the role of a supplier like Aptiv and I know you ship a lot of software to the
OEMs, but to-date that really more takers and sort of integrating -- integration of software all
over the place. And you mentioned a number of times, the change in electrical architecture and
everything is moving to more software enabled platform. So it seems like there is an opportunity
for a player like Aptiv but you'd have to get involved even earlier in the work and work more
closely with the OEMs?
So there is a goal for you is, is that a correct assessment, and maybe you could just update us on
what Aptiv is doing and the strategy there.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `No, Joe, that -- it's a great question. And I think the point, the point you make is right. So I think,
given where we play, given where the industry is going, having a much more strategic relationship
with the OEM customer is a must. Right. What we deal with, where we operate, it's a cross-
section that's highly complex and that's actually where we play. So we have the benefit of our
legacy, kind of nervous system, vehicle architecture, combined with our newer capabilities in and
around software that to your point, started in areas like infotainment, user-experience and active
safety, all of those are coming together and merging in what we've been talking about, in terms
of smart vehicle architecture, all of them.
And given our capabilities in both areas, we've been position to have strategic discussions and
quite frankly, strategic development programs with several of the leading global OEMs. And I
would say, even strategic programs that we're on today, whether it's our GEN1, ADAS solutions or
our generate -- our GEN1 integrated cockpit solutions that ultimately lead to -- that lead to the
SVA solution. Clearly there is an acceleration of the separation of software and hardware, it's
happening as we speak. It presents a huge opportunity for us. We talked about our GEN2 ADAS
platform where we give, where we can provide the full-stack solution, but also provide OEM
customers who want the ability to do more of the software on their own, the ability to do so.
For those who don't have the capabilities, we can provide the full solution and we do that today.
And there will be a universe of OEM customers, who want to do more, and we are going to
enable that and provide both hardware, software and integration services in those sort of
scenarios. There is going to be other OEM customers, who really don't have that capability, are
interested in investing in it and we'll do more of a full-stack solution. And from our perspective,
what's important is really to serve both. So that we have that revenue opportunity, and make sure
that we're the driver of change versus reacting to the change.
So that's why we made the comments in our prepared remarks about continuing to invest during
2020, which was a challenging year, we'll continue to invest during 2021 and beyond on all the
solutions that we are developing, the platforming of our various technologies and cannibalizing
some of our traditional product lines and replacing them with higher tech-solutions that take out
mass, that take out weight, that provide OEM customers with more flexibility and really enables
the technology that's going into the car. So -- it's a long-winded answer, but I hope, I have
addressed it.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
I know, I appreciate the color. Thank you.
Operator
We'll now move on to our next question over the phone, which comes from `Chris McNally, Analyst, Evercore ISI from
Evercore. Please go ahead.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Hey, Chris.
Q - `Chris McNally, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Thanks. Hey, thanks so much team. So one long-term question, one active safety question. So, if
we take the top-end of your margin guidance at 10.7% and we actually look at some of the units,
you spoke about roughly $180 million expected in '21, and we add that back, we get almost that12%, far that we've been talking about for some time looking out, and next still a couple of billion
before back to that $90 million pre-COVID production.
I think that's pretty exciting to think about the underlying progress here on margins that's we've
been waiting for ASV to come up for some years. Could you talk about sort of the margin
progression, and when you may actually formalized some of the old margin targets and we get
new ones, because it looks like you are about to go into a strong period where you hit those
margin targets we've been speaking about for some years.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Joe, do you want to have [ph] this one.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. Yeah, no, Chris, I think you framed it correctly, you're thinking about it. We've obviously
spent a lot of effort over the last couple of years, on the cost structure of the business, taking out
overhead. And I know, as we talked about last year, we didn't have any sort of big moment where
we said, are high, because of COVID we can change things, we felt that the business had been
structured pretty well and would continue to take advantage from a margin perspective as those,
product lines grew into their own and started to add increased volume.
And I think you're right. If you take out what our -- a fair amount of investment around COVID and
now these supply chain costs and assume eventually we work out of those over the coming
couple of years and we continue to see the strong accretive product-line growth and things like
active, safety, high-voltage and engineered components. I think we're on that trajectory.
As far as a longer-term update that will come as we -- at our next Capital Markets Day, which we
plan on for 2022. But I do think you're trajectory and the way you're thinking about, it's correct.
Q - `Chris McNally, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Great. And then I guess, the related question is in active, safety right 4 billion of orders sort of on
average now, you had a strong year even despite COVID, we're seeing a lot more emphasis on
level two plus, where you have a sort of a higher market share. There is a lot of momentum there
clearly. Like the 18 months ago, you mentioned that you need to have a step-up the spend to
keep up with the order pace and the bid pace. Could you just give us an update or do we -- will
we may be -- making to see a second step up if we start to hit four, five during then in orders or
can we start to see some of the scalability, because again, that's really important for driving ASUX
margins.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, maybe I'll start. Our real focus, Chris as it relates to our next generation ADAS solution is
leveraging the software that's been developed to-date driving reuse of that software and really
driving platforms, within the ADAS business. And that's really across the various ASUX product
lines right on the journey to ultimately in SVA solution.
So it's really about how do we drive more leverage. Listen, I don't think, we foresee any real
incremental step up, like we talked about previously that $90 million, which was really about how
do we drive additional pursuit opportunities, how do we better position ourselves, as it relates to
SVA both from a hardware and software standpoint. And now it's taking advantage of that
investment opportunity to drive more scale in widening our competitive moat. Now there may bewithin quarters, periods where we decide we're going to invest a bit more given the competitive
dynamic or to drive technology advancement.
But by and large, given we've introduced GEN1, we're rolling out of launching on several vehicle
programs now as we speak and we're heading into GEN2, you should start to see a fair amount
of scale come through.
Q - `Chris McNally, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Okay, great thank you.
Operator
We'll now move to our next question, which comes from `Mark Delaney, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Mark Delaney, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Yeah, good morning. Thanks very much for taking the questions. I was hoping to start on the
Advanced Safety business and what the company has seen around level two, level two plus and
level three, you're guiding for some really nice growth over market, in that segment this year. But
if we start thinking out to 2022, 2023 type of timeframe. There has been an increased number of
announcements of deployment of those sorts of ADAS capabilities. So if you could talk a little bit
more on what Aptiv is seeing out over the intermediate-term for advanced safety and what
opportunities there could be maybe sustain this kind of nice growth over market that you're
seeing in advanced safety.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I'll start with the qualitative and then Joe can walk you through all the growth rates. I mean
our booking activity has remained strong. It was very strong last year and what was up a very
choppy environment given COVID. So bookings were close to $4 billion. Advanced Safety for
OEM customers is a solution that sells.
So the focus on driving advanced safety solutions from our customers is significant solutions that
reduce the on costs, but provide the sort of performance of consumers are looking for is in
significant demand. So it will continue to be a huge growth opportunity for us for the foreseeable
future. Joe, you should walk through all the numbers.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I know Mark, it's very consistent with what we've talking about. This is a strong double-digit
grower. We expect to be a little shy of $2 billion by the end of 2021, in active safety revenue. But
continue to see that business growing at or above 20% from a CAGR perspective over the next
three years. And when you get to that 2022, 2023 timeframe, we expect that -- we expect to be
the largest from an industry perspective, we'll have active, safety, content over 20 OEs different,
different platforms on 20 OEs. So that strong sort of 20 plus percent CAGR, we've talked about
continues to be in place, we obviously feel very good about it. There is a little bit of a larger
numbers obviously with the growth rate as the business continues to grow, but a very strong
compounded growth rate over the next number of years.
Q - `Mark Delaney, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `That's helpful, thanks. And then my question was on Motional and how to think about this level of
equity losses around $240 million for 2021. I mean, should we think about that as a run rate or
maybe even increasing in terms of the degree of loss, as you are trying to bring your technology
to market. And then what, as these program start to ramp in the '21 to '23 timeframe as you
articulated in your prepared remarks.
I mean is that going to be enough to get these losses to start to decline or is that really further
out in time before we should think about equity losses in mitigating promotional. Thanks.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
The real focus now, and Joe can walk through the numbers. The real focus now is advancing and
accelerating technology adoption. Right. So that's where our real focus is. We've completed the
GEN1 platform, you'll see that on the roads GEN2 for 2022, for sale to customers in 2022 on the
road with Lyft in 2023. So that's where our real focus is. Now we have more than enough capital
to meet our timetable and meet the tech roadmap that the team is mapped out. To the extent
we need capital, we view that as something to the extent we need capital, and it reflects the
value of the business that's something with our partner will entertain Joe, do you want to add to
my.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I know just real quick, about half of the increase from prior expectations is just the
finalization of the purchase accounting. So that's effectively non-cash, obviously coming through
the P&L. So the remaining half is the step-up in investment and to Kevin's point, we'll see that
increase over the next couple of years. But it's still well within the plan and the original funding
when we formed the JV back at the beginning of last year, though we had four to five years of
funding in the JV, and that continues to be the case.
Operator
We'll now move on to our next question over the phone, which comes from `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank
from Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Hi, good morning everybody.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Good morning Emmanuel.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Wanted to ask you about high-voltage electrification bookings, we are seeing all these
announcements from automakers that seem to signal massive acceleration towards like the
electrification, some pretty bullish volume targets by 2025, some 100% EV by 2025 from GM.
And I was curious, should we expect to see inflection higher into your read of booking -- the
things you've been reading around '21 to be in the year so in electrification.
And then related to that, I think last quarter you were talking about this fairly high win-rates that
you have in high-voltage bookings 70% or so, just wanted to see if there is something that you
have seen or expect to see something.A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, Emmanuel, it's Kevin. So, yeah. So from a win-rate standpoint, our win rate continues to be
north of 70%. I would say, we have -- to reiterate we've talked about previously, a very focused
strategy as it relates to high-voltage electrification. So we're very focused on the select group of
OEMs, who have a strategy that brings high-voltage electrification across multiple platforms.
So we get the benefit of -- we get the benefit, they get the benefit of significant volume, a year
or two ago, we were look -- we are basically evaluating 15 programs on an annual basis this year
will be evaluating north of 40 program. So bookings activity and dollar value of bookings, will
certainly kick-up in 2021 and beyond. It's important to note, the reason we're so successful is we
are the only, only competitor, only player out there that has the ability to bring the vehicle
architecture, the connector component, the cable management component, the electrical center
component, in the wire harness component together and provide a fully optimized solution to an
OEM that takes out mass, it takes out weight. I mean, a significant amount of mass reduction,
Adam asked that question earlier, with respect to our flexible printed circuit board technology. But
reducing masked by close to 40%, which takes out cost and gives the OEM space. And the value
of what we deliver the packaging in that full systems, is translated into significant win rates and a
huge opportunity for Aptiv.
Joe can walk through the numbers, but high-voltage electrification will be our fastest growing
product line for several years to come.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, Emmanuel, we're expecting just based on the bookings and increased activity to your
point, we had talked about that business growing at 40% through 2020. We expect that to be
growing over 50% in 2021 and that's obviously on a larger number. We'll certainly be you know
above $1 billion of revenue in 2022. Our original target was to sort of get to or get close to a $1
billion in 2022. So we'll now be above that and continue to have sort of that same profit profile,
continues to trend above segment margins and is accretive to the SPS segment. So I would say
both within the bookings and the revenue trajectory. The trends you're talking about from an OE
perspective, about greater levels of electrification, we're seeing in the numbers as well.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Okay, great. And then just one point of clarification on your overall outlook for growth over
market this year of a fixed points. I think back in third quarter when you sort of -- giving sort of an
initial view into 2021, I think you are -- thinking six to eight points or so.
Can you maybe just give us a final point around what has changed? Is it just the uncertainty of the
environment and to what extent you would impact the growth over market versus the growth
[ph].
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Joe, do you want to --. (Multiple Speakers)
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah Kevin. We remain very confident Emmanuel on this -- in the long term 6% to 8% growth over
market framework. I don't think, anything has sort of strategically change there at all. We are at
the lower end, as you can imagine the chip constraints obviously affect the tech-enabledproducts. So we are at the lower end of the range, as we go into the year. But long-term, we still
have a high degree of confidence in that 6% to 8%. And as we've talked about a lot that number
doesn't shoot straight every -- perfectly straight every quarter, but very confident within that
range.
And I wouldn't say anything material has changed from that perspective.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
We'll now move to our next question over the phone, which comes from `Dan Levy, Analyst, Credit Suisse from Credit
Suisse. Please go ahead.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Hi, Dan.
Q - `Dan Levy, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Hey good morning, guys. Thank you. A couple of questions, one on outgrowth and then another
on Motional. First on outgrowth, and I know you mentioned, your investor day probably next year,
but we did see your bookings accelerated in fourth quarter, presumably there is more
opportunity into 2021 and you get sort of this post-COVID cash funded. And we haven't really
didn't seen anything related to SVA. But I know at the same time, it's harder to maintain growth
as products mature [ph].
So maybe you can give us a sense of what the bookings say about your ability to meet that six to
eight points of outgrowth beyond the 2022 timeframe that you've talked about. So how do you
think about the bookings in six to eight points, beyond that 2022 timeframe.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I think, Joe I'll start, as Joe said last year, and then the first part of this year, giving the
semiconductor challenges, our supply shortages creates a bit of a choppy environment and limits
the amount of near-term visibility. However, everything that we see going through COVID, in
dealing with these challenges, really underscores our view that you're going to see an
acceleration of technology adoption.
Right. Whether that's high voltage electrification, whether that's ADAS solutions or connectivity
that consumers want all those -- want those products, they want more of them. So it gives us a
high-level of confidence beyond 2022 in the six to eight points of growth over market. And that's
what's reflected in our bookings, and quite frankly that's what's reflected in our long-term outlook
from a revenue standpoint. So management team is very confident in that level of outgrowth,
Joe?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I'd agree completely with that. And Dan, as you know, we watch the sort of the longer-term
CAGR bookings growth carefully over time, because that ultimately is what helped to drive the
outgrowth. And when you look at the key growth areas around active, safety, high-voltage
engineered components, the connectors element type business. Those bookings have remainedat exactly at or above, where we need to be at that 6% to 8%. So we've got again a very high
level of confidence in that outgrowth range.
Q - `Dan Levy, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
And. Thank you. And the SVA piece, when would we see that showing up in bookings?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, SVA, you already remember Dan, SVA is an evolving solution. Right, so it's effectively and
we've talked about it previously, it started with the consolidation of compute with domain
controllers, integrated cockpit controllers unemployed that it's now evolving or continue to evolve
to zone controllers. We've already booked a program with a major global European based global
OEM.
We have a number of potential program wins in front of us during 2021. So more to come on that
-- the program that we were awarded previously, will launch on a vehicle in 2022. And then there
is a lot of activity that our SVA team has focused on our PDC solution, where we separate
hardware from software. So I think over the next 12 months to 24 months, you should get more
visibility to the commercial wins, the commercial opportunities and the progression of revenue.
Q - `Dan Levy, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Great. And then -- thank you. And then maybe a follow-up just on Motional, maybe you could walk
us through the key steps or milestones ahead between now and 2022 that we should watch out
of two now in commercialization. And then just broadly on commercialization, I believe that the
goal in the past, it's really be a systems provider to others rather than if we want to operate their
own fleet rather than you running fleet [ph]. So maybe you can just give us a sense of where the
business focus is now. Because it seems like, yes, it's on the Lyft network, but it seems like you
are now running their fleets?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, the overall strategy hasn't changed. So it's really about providing the full systems and
software stack for OEMs or fleet providers to put in place on their vehicles. So that strategy has
not changed. To the extent that we are partnering in operating rideshare networks, we get the
benefit of validating the technology in real world situations and understanding -- better
understanding, ultimately the customers who operate those networks or our ridesharing
providers.
So we have a great partnership with Lyft, there is a lot sharing -- a lot of sharing of information as
it relates to technology, as it relates to consumer experience. As it relates to fleet management
solution. So, it allows them to be better and us to be better and we'll continue to do that. So it's
almost, it's validation of the underlying technology.
The key milestones over the next couple of years are the GEN1 out on the road, doing real-
testing, which you'll see -- which will happen very very shortly. GEN2, out on the road or available
for customers in 2022. So we're a little over a year away on that. The team is making significant
progress on that vehicle. It's a HMG battery electric vehicle platform. And then during calendar
2021, more commercial announcements related to partnerships, whether it be the purchase of
the underlying technology or plugging that technology into other networks.
So there is -- lot of the (Multiple Speakers)A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Expect via to be launching [ph] this year.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I'm sorry, go ahead.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
I was just going to say we'd also we've announced one Kevin to your comments on the prepared
remarks, we'd expect via to be launching this year as well, in a city to be determined.
Operator
Due to time, ladies and gentlemen, we don't have time for any further questions, I'll now hand
the call back over to Mr. Kevin Clark for closing comments.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, well thank you everyone. We appreciate you joining our call. We appreciate your support for
Aptiv. Have a good day and a good rest of the week. Stay safe.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's call. Thank you for your participation, you may
now disconnect.