Q4 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, and welcome to the Aptiv Fourth Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. Today's
conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Chris Tillett,
Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
`Christopher Tillett, Director of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Kevin. Good morning, and thank you for joining Aptiv's fourth quarter and full year
2021 earnings conference call. The press release and related tables along with the slide
presentation can be found on the Investor Relations portion of our website at aptiv.com. Today's
review of our financials excludes restructuring and other special items and will address the
continuing operations of Aptiv.
Reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP measures for our Q4 and full year financials, as
well as for our full year 2022 outlook are included in the back of the slide presentation and the
earnings press release. During today's call, we will be providing certain forward-looking
information which reflects Aptiv's current view of future financial performance and may be
materially different from our actual performance for reasons that we cite in our Form 10-K and
other SEC filings, including uncertainties posed by the COVID-19 pandemic and the difficulty in
predicting its future course and impact on the supply chain and global economy.
Joining us today will be Kevin Clark, Aptiv's President and CEO; and Joe Massaro, CFO and
Senior Vice President of Business Operations. Kevin will provide a strategic update on the
business and Joe will cover the financial results and 2022 outlook in more detail before we open
the call to Q&A.
With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Kevin Clark.
`Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `Thank you, Chris, and thank you, everyone for joining us this morning. Beginning on Slide 3. During
2021, we experienced record growth over market and record new business bookings, driven by
our industry-leading portfolio of advanced technologies aligned to the safe, green and
connected megatrends, as well as our success keeping our customers running through the
ongoing supply chain disruptions.
Despite the increased efforts to keep our customers connected, our financial results validate the
strength of our competitive position and the resiliency of our business model. Focusing on the
highlights for the full year, new business bookings reached $24 billion and revenues totaled $15.6
billion, representing 15% growth, 15 points over underlying vehicle production. Operating income
and earnings per share totaled $1.2 billion and $2.61, respectively, reflecting the benefit of strong
revenue growth, partially offset by increased operating expenses related to supply chain
disruptions and material cost inflation, which will -- Joe will cover in greater detail in a few minutes.
Lastly, we continue to invest in organic growth initiatives, and as you know, we recently announced
an agreement to acquire Wind River, a leading provider of intelligent edge software solutions,
representing one more step in accelerating the intelligent transformation of Aptiv and positioning
us to enable the software-defined future. This transition -- this transaction uniquely positions Aptiv
to provide comprehensive solutions that enable software to be developed faster, deployed
more seamlessly and optimized throughout the vehicle life cycle.
Setting the supply chain challenges aside, the Aptiv team is executing exceptionally well,
continuing to proactively position the company for the future, increasing the efficiency of our
underlying cost structure while investing in high growth, high margin advanced technologies that
increase the resiliency of our business model, which will lead to a stronger competitive position
and increased value for our shareholders.
Turning to Slide 4. As I already mentioned, we remain laser-focused on executing our strategy
and further enhancing our industry-leading capabilities. The macro headwinds we faced over the
past two years have validated the resiliency of our business model, showcased by the flawless
execution of new program launches as well as the record new business bookings and record
revenue growth over market.
Looking ahead, Aptiv will be even better positioned to capitalize on the safe, green and
connected megatrends, just as the path to the software-defined vehicle is accelerating.
Our scalable advanced ADAS and in-cabin sensing solutions increase system performance while
lowering cost, enabling the democratization of active safety features. Our extensive portfolio of
both low-voltage and high-voltage electrification solutions allows us to develop optimized vehicle
architectures that significantly reduce vehicle weight and mass and lower overall vehicle cost.
And our vehicle connectivity solutions provide our OEMs with the data analytics and insight that
allow for continuous enhancements through the vehicle life cycle and our fleet customers with a
vehicle health data to minimize vehicle downtime. Collectively, each of these offerings is a key
foundational element for our smart vehicle architecture solution, and 2021 was the proof point for
the market relevancy of our industry-leading portfolio of advanced technologies, which gives us
the confidence to increase our framework for revenue growth to 8 to 10 points over vehicle
production.
As shown on Slide 5, 2021 new business bookings totaled record $24 billion, a $6 billion increase
over the COVID-impacted 2020 amount and a $2 billion increase over the previous record of $22
billion. Our unique portfolio of safe, green and connected technologies, combined with ourAdvanced Safety and User Experience segment bookings totaled $6 billion for the year, including
$2.8 billion in Active Safety awards.
Bookings for our Signal and Power Solutions segment reached $18 billion, including a record $3.5
billion of high-voltage electrification awards. The cumulative amount of our new business
bookings over the last three years across our portfolio of advanced technologies, gives us
confidence in our ability to sustain strong above market growth across both of our business
segments, further validating the resiliency of our business model.
Turning to the highlights for -- from our Advanced Safety and User Experience segment on Slide
6. Revenues for the fourth quarter declined 1%, 15 points better than the reduction in global
vehicle production. For the full year, revenues increased 13%, 13 points over vehicle production,
reflecting the benefit of new program launches and increased penetration rates, which resulted
in strong growth over market in our Active Safety product line. And continued strong growth in
our user experience and connectivity and security product lines, driven by the launch of
infotainment programs in Europe and in-cabin sensing programs in both North America and
Europe. As the demand increases for more advanced active safety and user experience features,
the need for more advanced software development, integration and compute capabilities is
required.
And our industry-leading capabilities presents us with additional market share opportunities as
evidenced by a new business award from Stellantis for ADAS satellite architecture solution on the
Ram pickup truck; building off of our earlier success launching a similar scalable active safety
solution on the Jeep Grand Cherokee and Wagoneer; several new business awards from Ford for
the extension of our ADAS satellite architecture solutions across additional new vehicle platforms;
awards from Volvo for the extension of the first-of-its-kind android infotainment solution,
powered by native Google automotive services with real-time OTA on the new additional vehicle
platforms; and lastly, further commercial validation of our smart vehicle architecture solution in
China, with a new business award from Baidu for the development of a central vehicle controller.
This high performance compute platform will launch in 2023 on a vehicle produced by the Geely-
Baidu joint venture, Jidu and will up integrate central body functions and control the flow of data
in and out of the vehicles.
Moving to Slide 7. Fourth quarter revenues in our Signal and Power Solutions segment declined
6%, 10 points better than the declining global vehicle production. For the full year, revenues
increased 16%, 16 points over vehicle production, reflecting the increased production of high-
voltage electrified vehicles, resulting in increased demand for both our low-voltage and high-
voltage architecture solutions from traditional and emerging electric vehicle OEMs and continued
strong demand from engineer components for both automotive and non-automotive
applications.
We're perfectly positioned to support our customers globally with an industry-leading portfolio of
high-voltage distribution, connection and cable management solutions, which is translated into a
significant increase in new business awards for high-voltage solutions, including an award for
Rivian for low-voltage content on the electrified R1S and R1T models, an extension of our 2019
award on these vehicles; an award for high-voltage vehicle architecture covering several next-
generation Stellantis vehicles, an important win as more European platforms migrate to full
battery electric vehicles; high-voltage architecture awards with VW for additional ID models on
their MEB platform, building off several high-voltage bookings on the MEB platform in 2020; and
lastly, an award from a major North American OEM for a wireless charging solution that will launch
on several of their vehicle platforms.These new business awards validate our leadership position in optimizing high-voltage power
distribution for new vehicle architectures that deliver value for our customers.
We continue to see an acceleration of powertrain electrification, driven by both more stringent
CO2 regulations and the increasing momentum for consumer acceptance. The fact that we have
content on more than 50% of the battery electric vehicles launching over the next few years,
we're confident that we will continue to experience very strong revenue growth from our high-
voltage electrification product lines.
Turning to Slide 8. As I mentioned, in early January, we announced the agreement to acquire
Wind River, a global leader in intelligent edge connected systems. This acquisition reflects our
commitment to accelerating Aptiv's software strategy. Together, we'll be able to provide a
comprehensive edge-to-cloud software solution, spanning the full intelligence system lifecycle
across multiple industries.
Our complementary software offerings will create new growth and value creation opportunities
for Aptiv and our customers through a cloud native platform that enables the development,
deployment and operation of software across the full vehicle lifecycle. A smart vehicle
architecture enables the evolution of vehicle architecture in advanced feature adoption across
domains. Wind River's proven solutions for mission-critical applications will play a key role in
enabling the software-defined vehicle.
Slide 9 provides an overview of our software strategy. We're at a tipping point in the automotive
industry transition to the software-defined vehicle. Consumers are demanding more advanced
features for vehicle safety, comfort and convenience. 5G and the cloud are creating opportunities
to deliver vehicles at leveraged connectivity and lower battery costs are accelerating the
penetration of high-voltage electrification, all of which is enabled through a significant increase in
the amount of software content in the vehicle, growing from $30 billion today to $90 billion by
2030.
OEMs are beginning to separate software from the underlying hardware both technically as they
transition to smart vehicle architectures and then how they're sourcing new programs. After this
enabling OEMs to accelerate their transition to electrified software-defined vehicle by employing
a more holistic engineering and development approach to optimize the hardware, the software
and the system solution that spans the full vehicle stack.
Our industry-leading position in the development of high performance, cost optimized,
automotive grade hardware and deep software development capabilities deployed across
millions of vehicles with multiple OEMs across the globe, gives us confidence in our unique
competitive position. The combined expertise and complementary technologies of Aptiv and
Wind River, further augmented with TTTech's deterministic framework that enhances active
safety software applications are uniquely positioned to assist OEMs in cost-effectively
accelerating the development and the deployment of the software-defined vehicle.
Aptiv smart vehicle architecture solution optimizes the vehicle infrastructure, while providing the
necessary network redundancy and resiliency. Wind River's studio cloud-native platform allows for
the development, deployment, operation and servicing the vehicle software stack, shortening
development cycles, speeding time to market and enabling full lifecycle management. And an
open development environment allows for feature adoption and development from multiple
sources, including Aptiv's active safety and user experience software as well as OEM developed
software.In short, our strategy continues to be focused on accelerating the transition to the software-
defined vehicle by offering a complete stack from high performance hardware to cloud
connectivity that enables value-added services. A software architecture that is open, that's
scalable and containerized, easily upgradeable and providing OEMs the flexibility to efficiently
integrate their own as well as other software and feature development and that can be
continuously certified for safety critical applications and providing full lifecycle management
capabilities that enable attractive new business models.
Moving to Slide 10. Some of the advanced technologies we've discussed were on display at this
year's CES event in Las Vegas. Outside the Pavilion, we showed a number of feature-rich vehicles
with Aptiv's vehicle architecture, Aptiv's safety and user experience content already onboard.
Inside the Pavilion, we featured a fully functioning smart vehicle architecture and continuous
delivery platform. We hosted over 400 customers both in-person and virtually from over 50
companies including 25 OEMs.
This year's CES event provided our customers with the opportunity to validate Aptiv's full system
portfolio, generating significant interest in the future-defining products that we continue to
develop and deliver to OEMs.
Moving to Slide 11. Before I turn the call over to Joe, I wanted to comment on our outlook for
2022. As we've already discussed, we continue to face headwinds related to supply chain
disruptions and material cost inflation. However, as we manage through these day-to-day
challenges, we remain laser-focused on executing our strategy to build a more sustainable
business and deliver lasting value creation, which is translated into market share gains,
accelerated revenue growth and increased underlying profitability, driven by the development of
advanced technologies that are accelerating the transition to electrified software-defined
vehicles.
As I mentioned earlier, as a result of the confidence we have in our competitive position, we've
increased our outlook for growth over market to 8 to 10 points, further validated by recent strong
revenue growth and new program awards. In our advanced technologies, focused on the safe,
green and connected megatrends, are enabling market share and content gains which will
translate in a margin expansion and earnings growth.
Unfortunately, we expect supply chain -- we expect supply chains to remain tight and disruptions
to continue, but begin improving in the back half of this year. And inflationary effects including
rising material costs are likely to be around for some time. But we're managing our cost structure
and working to recover the increase in material costs through various pricing, product redesign,
sourcing and footprint strategies.
Our strategic focus on operating execution as well as the current headwinds are reflected in the
full year 2022 guidance that Joe will review with you shortly, which anticipates the continued
expansion of our competitive mode, which will leverage into increased new business bookings,
accelerated revenue growth and increased margins and cash flow generation.
With that, I'll now turn the call over to Joe to talk through the numbers.
`Joseph R. Massaro, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, Business Operations `
Thanks, Kevin, and good morning, everyone. Starting with a recap of the fourth quarter financials
on Slide 12. As Kevin highlighted earlier, the business drove strong growth over market while
supporting our customers despite ongoing disruptions in the supply chain. Revenues of $4.1 billion
were down 4%, with 12 points of growth above underlying production.Adjusted EBITDA and operating income were $461 million and $273 million respectively, reflecting
flow through on lower volume as we have the rapid second half recovery in 2020, partially offset
by strong growth in our key product lines with new program launches in high-voltage, active
safety and user experience. COVID and supply chain disruption costs of $85 million, saw a $15
million increase over Q4 2020 and the net negative impact of approximately $80 million for
material inflation and foreign exchange.
Earnings per share in the quarter were $0.56, with the lower operating income levels being
partially offset by favorable tax expense, including the tax benefits related to the supply chain
disruption costs. The equity income loss at Motional had a $0.21 negative impact. Lastly, operating
cash flow was $669 million, including a positive contribution from working capital, partially
offsetting the lower earnings level. Capital expenditures increased $86 million year-over-year to
$181 million for the quarter, reflecting the timing of investments ahead of major 2022 program
launches.
Looking at the fourth quarter revenues in more detail on Slide 13. We saw strong double-digit
growth over market in all regions across both segments, reflecting the continued strength of our
product lines despite lower vehicle production in the quarter and continued supply chain
disruptions. FX and commodity movements were also a net favorable to revenue as compared to
the prior period, largely due to copper price escalations.
From a regional perspective, North America revenues were down 2%, representing 11 points of
growth over market, driven by favorable model mix as truck and SUV production continue to
outperform passenger cars as well as active safety and high-voltage. In Europe, we saw strong
double-digit outgrowth of 11% as user experience launches offset the steep market decline from
continued supply chain disruptions in the region.
Lastly in China, revenues reflecting 17 points of growth over market resulted from new program
launches in our active safety, high-voltage and user experience businesses. The continued strong
growth above market in the fourth quarter close out a record year for Aptiv. A strong revenue
outperformance and record bookings highlighted by Kevin, continues to demonstrate the
relevance of our core technologies.
Moving to the segments on the next slide. Advanced Safety and User Experience revenues fell 1%
in the quarter, which translates to 15 points of growth over underlying vehicle production. This
includes growth in active safety where revenues were up 7% despite the semiconductor supply
shortages driven by program ramps in North America and Europe. User experience growth was
down for the quarter due to the timing of program launches, but up 5% in the full year.
Segment EBITDA was down $82 million due to higher input cost. Inflation in semiconductors and
other inputs accounted for roughly $50 million of that decrease. Signal and Power Solutions
revenues were down 6%, representing 10% growth over market. The market outperformance
was driven by continued strength in our high-voltage product line as well as strong performance
in the engineered components product lines. Commercial vehicle and industrial revenue growth
of 7% for the quarter, including strength in commercial vehicle despite a flat market.
EBITDA in the segment was down $135 million in the quarter on lower sales volume and higher
supply chain disruption and material costs. Together, those two drivers accounted for roughly $70
million of the decrease.
For 2021, our high-voltage product lines reported revenues of approximately $1 billion and
achieved bookings of $3.5 billion, records on both fronts. In addition, high-voltage marginsTurning now to Slide 15 and our 2022 macro environment. For 2022, we are expecting global
vehicle production to increase 6% to approximately 83 million units on an Aptiv weighted
production basis. We expect 2022 to start slowly as supply chain and COVID constraints continue
to impact the industry. Accordingly, we see vehicle production is being roughly flat in the first half
of the year. We see supply chain constraints easing as we move through the year and we expect
vehicle production to increase 15% in the second half.
Looking at the regions. In North America, we expect overall production growth of 9% with
continued favorable truck and SUV mix. In Europe, we anticipate 10% overall production growth, a
strong recovery given relatively greater European production disruption last year. China is
expected to be down 1% for the year at approximately 25 million units.
On Slide 16, you'll find our 2022 outlook for Aptiv. This current outlook excludes Wind River as the
transaction is not expected to close until the third quarter of the year. As was the case in 2021, we
will only be providing full year 2022 guidance as supply chain disruptions continue to result in
production schedule volatility at our customers. We expect revenue in the range of $17.75 billion to
$18.15 billion, up 15% at the midpoint compared to 2021. With global vehicle production is
expected to grow 6% for the full year, this translates in a 9 points of growth above market in line
with our updated 8% to 10% growth over market range.
Consistent with prior forecast, this range is multi-year and covers 2022 and 2023. AS&UX growth
over market of 19% is driven by the continued ramp of active safety and user experience
programs in Europe and North America, while S&PS growth over market of 6% is driven by further
penetration in our high-voltage and engineered components businesses. EBITDA and operating
income are expected to be approximately $2.6 billion and $1.9 billion at the midpoint with margin
expansion across both segments.
Consistent with 2021, although our core product line profitability continues to be in line with our
expectations, we will incur meaningful costs related to COVID safety protocols, supply chain
disruptions and material inflation. COVID and supply chain disruption costs are estimated at $230
million, an improvement of $100 million over 2021. We expect the improvement to come in the
second half of the year as supply chain disruptions lessen and we lap the heavily disrupted third
quarter of 2021.
We expect materials inflation to increase approximately $200 million in 2022. While we continue
to make progress on mitigating these costs, we expect these efforts to take until 2023 as we
have noted in prior quarters. And FX and commodities will have a negative impact of $60 million
versus 2021, driven by copper pricing at $4.40 and our euro rate of EUR1.14.
As we discussed in our January 12th Wind River acquisition call, beginning in 2022, we will change
our definition of adjusted EPS to exclude amortization. Annual amortization in 2022 is estimated
to be $150 million. The appendix to this presentation includes a reconciliation, highlighting the
change including the prior year. For 2022, we estimate adjusted earnings per share to be $4.35,
an increase of 42% over the comparable adjusted 2021 total. We expect 2022 operating cash
flow of just over $2 billion, driven by the earnings increase and favorable working capital of
roughly $400 million. Lastly, we estimate total CapEx to be approximately 5% of sales.
Slide 17 includes the puts and takes for our 2022 revenue and EBITDA guidance as compared to
2021. Starting with revenue on the left. We've already discussed our expected industry recovery
of approximately 6% for the full year and our new growth over market framework of 8% to 10%
as approximately $1.75 billion of additional revenues. We expect the slight headwind from FX and
commodities and assume price down to 2%. For adjusted EBITDA on the right hand side of theslide, we expect to see the benefit of our flexible and scalable cost structure driving strong
volume flow through on higher revenues, partially offset by the impact of price downs.
As noted, while COVID and supply chain disruption costs remain in 2022, we're expecting a year-
over-year improvement of $100 million. And FX and material inflation costs are net headwind of
approximately $265 million for the year, driven by rising semiconductor and resin prices and
unfavorable FX rates year-over-year. EBITDA totaled $2.6 billion at the midpoint, an increase of
approximately 28% over 2021.
Turning to Slide 18. We wanted to provide a few more details around Wind River. Noting again
that we expect the transaction to close later this year and the Wind River financials are not
included in the 2022 guide.
As we talked about in January, the Wind River product portfolio of intelligent edge operating
systems and middleware has been a long established leader in edge devices, requiring robust
compute performance. In early 2021, the company introduced Wind River studio, a software
subscription offering that incorporates their core products as well as cloud-enabled tools for the
development, deployment and full lifecycle management of intelligent edge software solutions.
Targeted and multiple industries, including telecom, aerospace, defense as well as automotive,
studio has grown quickly and represented over 10% of revenues in 2021.
In 2022, revenue will continue to accelerate with top line growth of 12% to 15%. Wind River Studio
is expected to represent 40% to 50% of the revenues by the 2024-2025 timeframe. The growth
in Studio driven by further penetration in key industries, including automotive, will help Wind River
achieve approximately $1 billion of revenue by 2026. As noted during our January call, the Wind
River acquisition also brings financial benefits to Aptiv, including acceleration of AS&UX revenues
and reduced spending on third-party software. By year four following the transaction, these
benefits will equal an incremental $125 million of run rate earnings for Aptiv.
With that, I'd like to hand the call back to Kevin for his closing remarks.
`Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Joe. I'll now wrap up on Slide 19 before we open it up to questions. As we reflect on 2021
and our outlook for 2022, it's clear there are constant focus on innovation and flawless execution,
has positioned us to better support our customers and is resulting in a stronger competitive
position, which we've converted into record new business bookings and revenue growth over
market.
While we expect near-term headwinds to persist through the better part of 2022, we remain
confident in our operating execution and our product portfolio aligned to the safe, green and
connected megatrends. I'm proud of the Aptiv team and all we accomplished during a
challenging 2021, but I'm even more excited about what we'll deliver during 2022. We're well
positioned to continue to outperform as a purpose-driven company with a track record and
strategy to deliver significant value for our customers, our employees and our shareholders.
Operator, let's open up the line for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)Thank you. (Operator Instructions). And the first question today comes from `Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley of
Morgan Stanley.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley `
Thanks, everybody, and great details on the presentation. Kevin, I asked you this a few weeks
ago, but I'll ask you again. Of your order book, your record order book, are you able to give us a
sense of how much of it is coming from pure play EV customers, customers that really have no --
that have never sold internal combustion cars versus, let's say the legacy group that's making the
transition? That's my first question. I got follow-up.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I think when you look at our mix on battery electric vehicles and you -- or high voltage
electrification and we look at the mix between legacy and the traditional OEMs, and include some
of those battery electric vehicle companies that have been around for a while, I'd say net-net
about a third is with the newer battery electric vehicle companies and two-thirds with the legacy
home, the traditional OEMs.And Adam, I would say, as we move forward and as you look at
growth, it's probably that mix stays roughly the same, maybe improve slightly as it relates to
some of the traditional OEMs as they bring on their battery electric vehicle models.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley `
Great. And just a follow-up on China. Would love a little color, what you're seeing there. It seems
like that on the low end, the domestic Chinese players are making some pretty damn good cars,
Kevin, like really good quality, more competitive in every way.
And then on the higher end, on the EV side, the domestics are getting a lot more capable on the
EVs and maybe to the extent, maybe call it premium. And so, I'm wondering if that's consistent
with what you're seeing? Do you see that China -- what would be the trends in terms of domestic
competency versus that kind of incumbency of the foreign players? Do you see that kind of
change becoming a little more in play over the next few years? Are you seeing any evidence
there in real-time? Thanks, Kevin.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I would say, on the OEM side, domestic competency is certainly strengthened and improved
over the last five-plus years. I think we'd say, Adam, you'd see it in two areas and you talked
about electrification. So we have certainly seen an acceleration there. When you look at our mix of
bookings and our current revenues related to battery electric vehicles, the largest market we're
serving today is Europe, the second largest is China, but China is certainly accelerating.
The second area is in and around software and software-defined vehicles. We're seeing a
tremendous acceleration in demand for what we're doing as it relates to smart vehicle
architecture, both on the hardware side and software sides. And I mentioned in my prepared
remarks, the award that we received from Baidu related with CVC on a vehicle that they're
building with their joint venture partner, with a launch in 2023. We also were awarded the CVC
with Great Wall Motor last year as well. So we're seeing tremendous acceleration in the overall
China market when you consider what you think about technology.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley `
Appreciate it, Kevin. Thanks.A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks.
Operator
And we can now go to `Chris McNally, Evercore of Evercore.
Q - `Chris McNally, Evercore `
Thanks so much, guys. If I could ask maybe just specifically around the secular drivers within the
good GoM guide of ADAS and EV high voltage specifically. You've sometimes given some broad
ranges, what you're expecting. Could you talk about '22 growth for both EV and ADAS?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, Business Operations `
Yes, Chris. We'll continue to see -- we've talked about high voltage at that sort of 40% growth
rate CAGR over the next couple of years, continue to see that. Obviously, we're getting -- it's
coming down a bit, just to get our larger numbers, and continue to see strong sort of high teens
growth in active safety as well. Again, it's starting to get, not necessarily as high as it's historically
been, but starting to get to rather big product lines there.
Q - `Chris McNally, Evercore `
And then, Joe, on the EV specifically, is it fair, because some of the guidance you've given is pre,
some of the market growth that we've seen to be better than expected. Is that 40% sort of in
line with market growth, so if market growth is better, we can kind of use it as broad proxy, that
EV growth would be better?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, Business Operations `
Yes. I think if EV growth is stronger, that number should be stronger as well, right? I mean, we're --
as Kevin mentioned, we're on 50% of the launches. We've obviously got some take rate
assumptions in there, built on initial estimate. So, we've seen -- and I think you see that to some
extent in the bookings number as well, bookings came in at $3.5 billion, obviously, stronger than
we were initially thinking. So, I think that's a fair way to think about it.
Q - `Chris McNally, Evercore `
And then the last one, because it's related to the 8% to 10% multi-year outlook. It's great to hear
that up from the old 6% to 8%. Is it fair that a lot of the growth is ADAS and EV, the numbers have
been coming in better than expected, the orders have been better than expected, but that's all
pre-Wind River, right? I mean, if we start, we'll get more multi-year outlooks, but the growth of
market including sort of the acquisitions, we could actually get to maybe a point above that, just
looking at the Wind River sort of high-level growth over the next three to four years.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, Business Operations `
Yes. I think, -- yes, that is completely separate at this point, right? Just given we haven't closed
the deal yet. So the Wind River numbers are separate as we talked about them January 12 call,
there is good growth coming from that new subscription studio product. We see that continuing
and really being the growth driver there. And that would obviously be incremental to what we've
talked about in the 8% to 10%, that does not include Wind River.Q - `Chris McNally, Evercore `
Okay. Great. Thanks so much, guys.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Rod Lache, Wolfe Research of Wolfe Research.
Q - `Rod Lache, Wolfe Research `
Hi, everybody.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Good morning, Rod.
Q - `Rod Lache, Wolfe Research `
Kevin, during your prepared remarks, you mentioned strong underlying profitability improvement.
I'm looking at the midpoint of your 2022 guidance with an EBIT margin of 10.5%, and obviously,
between 2014 and 2018, you were doing 12%-13% margins pretty routinely, and I get that
inefficiencies in premium freight and input costs have been, I think maybe even 400 basis points
of drag here between '21 and '22. But could you talk a little bit about what you're targeting over
the next couple of years? And how you kind of get there? Because I don't see much difference
on the pricing side, at least in your near-term forecast.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Rod, that's a great question. Listen, I think, as you think about the environment that we've
been operating in over the last two years and continue to operate in as it relates to COVID,
COVID safety protocols, more recently, the level of supply chain disruption that has resulted in
inefficiency in the supply chain, just as you mentioned, increased freight, both inbound as well as
outbound. When you think of -- when you look at manufacturing inefficiencies, when you look at
material cost inflation, the numbers are significant.
Just as you said, they're massive. And that's something that we're working -- where we continue
to work through, we've made progress on during 2021, we'll continue to make more progress in
2022, but we're chiseling away.
Underneath that, when you look at how we're operating from a manufacturing performance
standpoint, separating those periods where we're dealing with TLO[ph] or volatility in production.
When you look at what we're doing from an engineering productivity standpoint, when you look
at what we're doing from a footprint standpoint, SG&A productivity standpoint, we continue to
make significant progress. So, we continue to make significant progress. And then overlay on top
of that the places where we operate and the mix of our product portfolio as it relates to ADAS,
as it relates to high-voltage electrification, as it relates to both engineered components within the
automotive and non-automotive space, and then, software. The reality is those are much higher-
margin product areas.
And as they continue to ramp, as we normalize the supply chain, as hopefully, there's reduced
pressure as it relates to COVID and some of the safety protocols that we have in place, all that
drops to the bottom line.Now, having said that, over the last couple of years, we've also made the decision to invest
incremental dollars in advanced development programs, in around principally smart vehicle
architecture, both hardware and software. That's translated into a significant competitive position,
which gives us tremendous opportunity as we look out in the future of both hardware as well as
software.
Over the last 12 to 18 months, as we said before, I think we've done 10 advanced development
programs, we've been awarded four or five programs commercially as it relates to CDCs and
PDCs from an SVA standpoint. We have line of sight to over 20 additional programs that relate to
SVA -- the transition to SVA software and hardware. And we're well-positioned to win a significant
amount of that business.
So, it was smart investment. So, as we look out into the future in terms of growth, obviously,
we've increased our outlook for growth over market, given the investments we've made as we
work through the challenges related to supply chain and COVID, you'll see, obviously, significant
margin enhancement as a result of reduction in those costs. And then the nature of our product
portfolio and where we sit, we think you ultimately end up with a much higher margin, much more
cash generative business out in the future.
Q - `Rod Lache, Wolfe Research `
Can you just remind us what mid-decade margin targets look like? And just my second question
is, nice to see the bookings, I was hoping you can maybe drill down into active safety, that 2.8
billion of bookings, how does that compare versus the past couple of years? And are you seeing
any changes to the nature of what you're winning? Our automakers or even your partner in
mobile, are they taking on different responsibilities and you taking on different responsibilities? Is
that something that we should be cognizant of in any way?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. So, the bookings this year, of 2.8 billion. It's not our highest year from an overall active
safety booking year. I think our record year was close to $4 billion, reflecting the wins on our initial
satellite architecture programs across 5 OEMs that are currently rolling out across those
OEMs.There's a whole next generation of advanced ADAS solutions that we'll be pursuing during
2022 and 2023, as we continue to enhance our active safety platform.
As it relates to our competitive position, our perspective is, it's actually strengthening. Active
safety, as you know, it is an important feature for our OEM customers. In the market today, 60%
of the vehicles on it -- being put on the road today have active safety systems. That leaves a
significant portion that will be adopting active safety over the next several years. So, significant
market growth opportunity and penetration opportunity. The fastest growth area is in and around
the L-2 and L-2 plus, which is actually where we're most strongly positioned from a competency
standpoint, given our overall platform and our capabilities.
As it relates to OEMs, I would say its -- Rod, it's all over the map. We have OEMs where we're
doing the full platform for the OEMs.All the feature development, the hardware, the software,
the sensor fusion, the integration. We have other OEMs, where we're integrating their solution
into our platform. And we want to provide our OEM customers with the flexibility to do that. As it
relates to other competitors, listen, it's a huge fast-growing market, right?
Any market where you have players like ourselves, growing north of 20% per year, it attracts
attention. And there are a number of players who are trying to enter the market. I think it's achallenge if you haven't been in it in a long period of time. We have business with over 20 OEMs
across the globe.
So, our ability to develop, deliver cost-effective solutions, I would argue is better than anyone
else out there, including OEMs who may decide to do more on their own. But we're about
enabling OEMs to go down the path that they would like to go down -- the path that they want to
go down. And while we do that, obviously, it generates revenue and profitable revenue growth.
But having said that, big opportunity, we have a strong competitive position in this area that we're
certainly focused on.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, Business Operations `
Rod, it's Joe. Just on the mid-decade margin targets. Obviously, we're still very much focused on
the targets we laid out in 2019. There's, obviously, as Kevin laid out, challenges with the disruption
and the inflation costs. So, it's a question of how long to work back to those? And we will have a
Capital Markets Day in the second half of this year and be updating a long-term view then.
Q - `Rod Lache, Wolfe Research `
Thank you.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, Business Operations `
Yes.
Operator
And we can go to `Joe Spak, RBC Capital Markets of RBC Capital Markets.
Q - `Joe Spak, RBC Capital Markets `
Thanks. Good morning. Joe, just to go back to maybe some of the puts and takes in the '22
outlook. The 200 million performance you're talking about, that seems to mostly offset the 2%
price down that you're seeing. I think, throughout '21, you talked about all these inefficiencies in
the plan from choppy schedules and higher logistics. So, I guess I'm a little bit surprised that
maybe that performance number is not a little bit higher. Are you assuming that some of the
schedule volatility remains? Or is some of that kind of getting into that supply chain cost bucket?
Maybe if you could just help a little bit with that.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, Business Operations `
Yes. That's in that 100 million, Joe. A lot of that -- the bulk of that was the disruption cost, shutting
down plants. So, we've assumed, obviously, some of that stays. I'd say schedules in the first half
of the year. You start with smooth schedules, right? Nobody plans the lumpiness. We actually had
a little bit of disruption in January at the end of the month that we sort of knew was coming. But
that performance, the improvement is really included in that 100 million.
We took that out of performance just to be able to keep the two buckets that we've outlined,
sort of the supply to the COVID and supply chain disruption bucket and the inflation buckets, we
wanted to sort of maintain those into 2022, just to give people line of sight with what was
happening with them.
Q - `Joe Spak, RBC Capital Markets `And then, just on the pricing, can you talk about the conversations you're having with automakers
and the ability to either recover or price for some of those inflationary headwinds?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. We're in conversations with several OEMs.I would say we're making actually very good
progress, but it's something that we continue to work through. I think, by and large, the OEM
community recognizes the challenges in the supply chain and the cost suppliers have incurred in
keeping them connected. We made the decision, Joe, and we've talked about this that we were
going to do everything we could to make sure that our OEM customers are building cars, and
that's resulted in incremental costs. And I would say, most of the OEMs that we've been
negotiating with have appreciated that, have supported us, have supported what we've done,
and effectively, we reached satisfactory resolution in terms of the sharing of some or all that cost.
Q - `Joe Spak, RBC Capital Markets `
Okay. Thank you. Maybe just one quick one, I noticed in the guidance, the Motional loss takes up.
That makes sense as I think you're getting closer or they're getting closer to commercialization or
launch. Can you just update us on the capitalization and funding there? I think when Hyundai put in
$1.6 billion. So, based on this run rate, it seems like maybe around '23 or '24, there could be
capital requirements, but maybe if you could just give us an update there on your thinking?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, Business Operations `
Yes. Thinking from a full-year perspective, Joe, it really hasn't changed. When we did the deal, we
had cash through 2024. They still have cash through 2024. Obviously, this may pull them up a
couple of quarters. So, but sort of that multi-year level of funding is still intact that we talked
about in March of 2020.
So, next couple of years are fully funded, and we'll, obviously -- over the coming quarters, we'll
be working with Hyundai and Motional team on next steps there. But you're right, I mean they are
making really good progress. They're starting to commercialize, they're getting ready for
commercialization. So the activity is ticking up.
Q - `Joe Spak, RBC Capital Markets `
Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from `John Murphy, Bank of America of Bank of America.
Q - `John Murphy, Bank of America `
Good morning, guys. (Multiple Speakers) I just wanted to follow up on those questions around
pricing. I mean, the reality is, you guys are bringing a lot of technology to the table in helping the
automakers to advance their product, stuff they can price for. But at the same time, you're
getting jammed on cost inflation, on raws and labor and everything else. And they're able to pass
this through and offset it through the pricing at the retail level, but they're not really helping you
guys out here.
So, I'm just curious, as these discussions move forward, even just outside of what's going on at
the moment and the extreme pressure the industry and sort of the supply chain is facing. I mean,
is there anything changing sort of in the dynamic of the relationship here on pricing or raws orsort of collaboration? It just seems like they need you more than ever, but right now, they're
making out pretty well from passing pricing through, but you're getting stuck in the sandwich
here.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. John, it's a good question. Listen, I -- periodically, we've been asked a question about the
pricing environment in the automotive industry. And I think our standard answer, it's true today is.
It's a challenging industry as it relates to pricing. And our OEM customers are always looking for
price. However, I would say, in this particular case, there actually is a fair amount of recognition,
cooperation, and collaboration between most OEMs and the supply base. There are some -- it's
a bit more challenging and we're working through it. There are various levers that we have in
terms of ensuring that we get compensated as it relates to incremental costs that are above and
beyond, and over an extended period of time. The cost that we would normally incur.
But I would say, by and large, the environment hasn't changed and -- from a pricing standpoint.
And we just need to work through the various cost levers, both on the supply side, as well as on
the customer side to offset that. And it'll take a little bit of time to do that. I'd say there's an
element of the costs we're incurring as I mentioned. We're doing it consciously. We're supporting
the OEMs as they launch some of these key programs. And we think, over the medium to long
term, that will create a lot of benefits.
As it relates to your point on dependency, listen, I know there's this increased narrative. I think it's
a great question, because there's this increased narrative about OEMs doing more. But the
reality, I can tell you, there is virtually no OEM that we are launching programs that have a high
software content level, where OEMs are actually coming back to us and asking us to do more of
the software development application activity than what was originally in the program.
And as we announced -- after we announced the Wind River acquisition, one of the great things
about it is, I -- we got calls from several OEMs with respect to, can we schedule meetings to sit
down to talk about what we and Wind River can bring to help them as they wrestle through the
challenges associated with the growth of software in the vehicle, in those areas that they have an
interest in developing the software, as well as those areas where they have other suppliers that
are struggling in delivering the software solution.
So, again, understand there's a lot of narrative about insourcing and vertically integrating,
especially in areas like software. I think a lot of that is driven by impressions related to a West
Coast-based battery electric vehicle company. But I would say, our automotive OEM. But I would
say, with the exception of that automotive OEM, virtually all the OEMs that we are dealing -- doing
business with are struggling with software development.
Q - `John Murphy, Bank of America `
Yes. No, it makes a lot of sense. Just two housekeeping more quick. The bookings of 24 billion,
what kind of volume assumptions are going into that? I mean, they could be 85 million or 100
million? We're in a weird time on how you think about sort of the backdrop of volumes sort of to
feed into that booking number. I mean, how do you think about that, Joe?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, Business Operations `
Yes. John, so we all know our revenue forecast. We obviously use our customer's schedules and
stuff. But for bookings, we always use IHS when the bookings are struck. So there's no -- we
always have a reference point to go back to. So, Q4 bookings would have been based on IHSoutlooks for those years going out as -- once we get into start production stuff. We always use
IHS for bookings.
Q - `John Murphy, Bank of America `
So, if anything, the long-term value of those might be undercut by some of the near-term
pressures, is that a fair statement?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. They'll flex with vehicle production. I mean, I think we over time have gotten to a point where
we're comfortable at what I'll say sort of washes out from a bookings perspective as it gets time
for revenue. It's close enough. But we never wanted to introduce sort of momentary sort of
subjectivity into quantification of the booking. So, we always use IHS.
Q - `John Murphy, Bank of America `
And then just one another follow-up, I'm sorry. It's SPS [ph], Kevin, you mentioned you had 50
companies run through the booth, 25 were automakers or OEMs.Who were the other 25? Were
they supplier partners in tech companies? I mean, there is a (Multiple Speakers) lot of big fish
looking to make acquisitions here. I'm just curious, who else came through the booth from those
other 25 companies?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
You know our supplier partners. So, I would say, 50 companies -- 50 parties came through the
booth, 25 OEMs, some of them physically, some of them virtually. So I want to make sure I'm clear
on that, actually a lot of them virtually. But as you can imagine, a lot of OEM interest across both
our SPS as well as our ASUX business, so people in and around vehicle architectures, as well as
advanced safety and user experience, and then a number of our supplier partners or potential
supplier partners.
Q - `John Murphy, Bank of America `
Okay. Great. Thank you very much, guys.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, John.
Operator
And we can go to `Brian Johnson, Barclays of Barclays.
Q - `Brian Johnson, Barclays `
Thank you. Just want to follow up on your comments on Wind River and the opportunities in the
Southwest stack that it opens. I guess two questions. First, Wind River under Intel, it doubled in
value, but (Inaudible) amount, compared to what TPG eventually sold it to you for. Some of the
feedback from TPG was that Wind River was kind of lackluster. Some people point to fingers at
Intel, Intel fans point the finger at management. I know TPG brought in new management, but
first question is, can you give us a sense of their momentum coming into the acquisition?
And then the second question is, RTOS is definitely needed in some ADAS applications, butdoesn't get you much in terms of discussions around application software? So, can you talk about
that?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Yes. No, it's a great question. As it relates to Wind River, listen, I think there was an element
of history to Wind River where it was a sleepy company at one point in time. And you highlighted
the fact that under TPG ownership, they came in and they significantly refreshed the
management team and put in a very strong present CEO, who's brought in very, very strong
talent with, I'd say contemporary software capabilities. And Brian, we had the opportunity well in
advance of deciding that we should evaluate a more strategic relationship.
We have the ability to work with the team as it relates to designing, developing a tech roadmap
that we could take from industries like telecommunications, aerospace and defense that had or
have some of the same challenges that we're experiencing in automotive today, but solutions
were developed and delivered by Wind River, where they've had a tremendous amount of
success. And we had the chance to effectively test drive as a part of our commercial negotiations.
So, a tremendous amount of time is spent with the management team, a company with a very,
very strong management team.
As you look at automotive and you look at the broad portfolio, listen, it's not just about our costs.
The benefit is, it's a company that's familiar with automotive vehicle architecture and middleware.
They have experience as it relates to in-device software, both with VxWorks, as well as Linux OS
with hypervisors. So, they know what legacy approaches were. But they come with the benefit of
having developed more contemporary approaches for the Telco and aerospace and defense
industries.
And when you look at it, it's not just about in-device software and the operating system, right? It's
really about the off-device software platform that really provides or will provide customers or
users with the ability to -- again, we look at it from a development, deploy, operate and service
the overall vehicle -- over the life of the vehicle versus and you're certainly familiar with this, the
current model where you layer in middleware in the vehicle once and you're done. So, it's not just
about RTOS, it's not just about the in-device software, it's also about the tool chain and
(Inaudible) software and platform that makes software development much more efficient, much
more effective.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, Business Operations `
Brian. It's Joe. I'll just--
Q - `Brian Johnson, Barclays `
Okay. Sure.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, Business Operations `
Just on the numbers. Listen, I think and that's why we've provided some of the information in the
deck. I mean, clearly, the business, I think languished under Intel. Don't know why. It wasn't there
obviously. But went down to about $300 million in revenue. So I think it actually contracted and
was at that level for a number of years. And as you can see, it's growing now. It's grown over the
last couple of years, and that growth is accelerating the studio product, which is what Kevin's
referring to, which is this containerized RTOS and middleware. It was launched in Q1 of 2021. It
already represents over 10% of the business. So that's really where the growth is.And I think your statement is true as of today, right. There are several middleware RTOS solutions
that you can technically put into a vehicle. What we're really talking about is the containerized full
lifecycle management type. And Wind River is the only containerized RTOS out there at this point.
The others used in automotive are not. And so there's a little bit of sort of where the puck is
going versus where it is today when we talk about their capabilities.
Q - `Brian Johnson, Barclays `
Okay. And just as a follow-up. Is this -- you mentioned in the calls that you're getting. It's -- as you
mentioned earlier, a lot of OEMs are building big software organizations, often recruiting leaders
from outside automotive to run those. Are you getting into those kind of in your management
levels? You don't have to say the names. But I'm thinking of someone like Doug Fields over at the
Board level of personnel leading the software groups?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Yes. Our engagements are at very, very, very senior levels within the OEMs.
Q - `Brian Johnson, Barclays `
Okay. Thanks. Look forward to continuing that in a few weeks at our conference.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Brian.
Operator
And we can now go to `David Kelley, Jefferies of Jefferies.
Q - `David Kelley, Jefferies `
Hey. Good morning, guys. Thanks for squeezing me in. The next-gen driver monitoring platform
launches you noted. Are you finding that you are winning that active safety platform attached to
DMS as well? We're just curious if there's correlation and some OEM buyers to consolidate there?
And is there a way to think about DMS content per vehicle opportunity for you?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. It's -- listen, traditionally, when you think about DMS, it has historically fallen in a category that
was in and around user experience versus active safety. But as you see more advanced active
safety programs introduced to the market, so when you think about L-2 plus L-3, the need for
driver monitoring, we refer to it really is in-cabin sensing, a much broader application than just
monitoring. You have seen an uptick in demand and more discussion or more integration in and
around the active safety system or active safety platform, which we think given our position in
ADAS, especially in the L-2, L-2 plus space, given our experience with DMS as well as is now
increasingly in-cabin sensing, it puts us in a great opportunity.
As it relates to market, the market is decent-sized today. It's one of the fastest-growing markets
that we operate in. I don't have the numbers, Joe, I don't know if you have market size numbers
or content per vehicle, but it's certainly meaningful.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, Business Operations `Yes. David, one of the interesting thing, the content per vehicle for this type of stuff varies a lot.
As Kevin said, it sort of depends on where it's going in and what it's replacing. But what's
interesting is, a lot of it is incremental, right? So, if you're talking about $10 or $12 for DSM
software per vehicle. That's really incremental, right? It's going in on top of what's in there now.
So, it really depends on what you're -- sort of what part of it you're referring to. But you tend to
see a lot of incremental content going into existing, either user experience systems, if it's still
within the cockpit, like gesture recognition, those types of things, or some of the perception
systems that are being used augmenting the active safety.
Q - `David Kelley, Jefferies `
Okay. Got it. Thank you. And then maybe one follow-up. The wireless charging conquest win, can
you just give us a sense high level of your role there, what you'll be providing? And is that on
vehicle only, or is there an infrastructure aspect to it as well?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, Business Operations `
That particular program is on vehicle. It is both hardware as well as software. I think you know, we
obviously do provide -- charge couplers and other things that are off vehicle for OEMs, but not in
this particular case.
Q - `David Kelley, Jefferies `
Okay. Got it. Thank you.
Operator
And we can go to `Itay Michaeli, Citi of Citi Bank.
Q - `Itay Michaeli, Citi `
Great. Thanks. Good morning. Just two quick follow-ups from me on the new 8 to 10 points GoM
target. First, can you maybe articulate what sort of annual bookings number you would target to
achieve the 8 to 10 points? And then, maybe what portion of the 8 to 10 points is coming from
non-auto? Thank you.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Itay, I'm not sure. As you know, bookings can be lumpy. So, from an annual standpoint, I think it's
tough to give you a direct or an exact number. I guess, one, where when you look at our current
ratio between revenue and bookings, it would be something consistent. Last year, as we
mentioned, we did $24 billion. This year, we expected to do $24 billion or more on our baseline of
revenues. So, I would say, on an annual basis, somewhere in that sort of a zip code. So, I don't
know about non-automotive.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, Business Operations `
Yes, I'd recall about a point, Itay. It generally adds to that growth over market, the commercial
vehicle and the industrial.
Q - `Itay Michaeli, Citi `
Got it. Great. That's all I had. Thank you.Operator
Our next question comes from `Dan Levy, Credit Suisse of Credit Suisse.
Q - `Dan Levy, Credit Suisse `
Hi. Good morning. Thank you for squeezing me in. First, just want to go to the end market
guidance. You're assuming production up to six globally as follows in the third-party forecast. And
then more recently, we heard GM talk about 25% to 30% volume growth, which is a sizable
customer for you. So, maybe you could just help reconcile your assumption versus some of the
other views in the market relative to conservatism, more than anything else?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
At this point, it's scheduled, Dan. So we're looking at customer schedules and have those layered
in obviously for the first four or five months. They're fairly detailed schedules. And then, obviously,
they are longer-term production forecasts. So, there's no sort of overlay at this point, particularly
in the near term, because we have to obviously be ordering inventory and getting the plants
ready to produce.
I'd say the biggest difference, I think IHS is -- I tell you the biggest difference when we look at
some of the third party is probably the ramp in the year. As we look at customer schedules, it's a
slow start to the year. I referenced that in my prepared remarks. We think the first half is flattish --
flat, flattish, and then ramping in the back half of the year and I think that's just where we are
relative to supply chain constraints and sort of ability to ramp up. So, we do work, obviously, and
calibrate our schedules off what others are saying. That tended to be the biggest difference that
we saw.
Q - `Dan Levy, Credit Suisse `
Got it. Thank you. And then, my follow-up. Sorry, I want to go back to the interesting question, but
I want to sort of ask it in a different way. In the quarter, we saw large automaker form a JV with
one of the chip companies. And one of the things we're talking about is, not only just how they're
sourcing chips for components, but also, maybe taking more of a proactive design on a -- more
proactive approach on inputting that design of those components, specifically on the electronic
side.
So, whereas in the past, maybe they would just buy a box from you or name another supplier that
is, you control all the sourcing, the design, now they want to take a more proactive approach. So,
how much of that is a trend? And if there is a more proactive approach from the OEMs on
dictating design of what they're getting from you, how does that affect? What you're providing
them?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Listen, Dan, I think -- I think to your specific question as it relates to OEMs and OEMs
interacting with semiconductor players. That's actually gone on for a number of years. And on
certain applications, whether it be within the user experience or infotainment space or the ADAS
space, there are OEM preferences as it relates to certain semiconductor players, more often
than not that related to economics and volumes versus technology.
As it relates to the OEM being more involved in chip design or technology or software going on
the chip, I think it depends on what activity the OEM is considering or bringing to the table forwhat particular application.
So, I would need more specifics on that. I would say, a lot of, again, going back to my initial point,
software in the vehicle is tripling over the next -- over the next eight years. So there's a lot of
software going into the vehicle. So, a big opportunity. Obviously, OEMs want to be involved in a
part of that, just like they have in the past. So, I would say, that's to -- I think as it relates to that,
the interactions with semiconductor players, that's been going on for years.
I think it's probably heightened a bit from a supply chain standpoint, just given what we've all
gone through in the last year or so. And I'd say, you'd see a mix -- you'd see a mix -- a bit of a
mixed bag. There's some OEMs who are trying to get closer to semiconductor players. There are
other OEMs that really the business model has not changed, but certainly, want more visibility,
more transparency, more understanding of the supply chain.
Q - `Dan Levy, Credit Suisse `
And are you seeing your customers dictating more to you, which chips you need to use? Or that's
just a trend that's always been going on, that sometimes you'll have some customers say you
have to use chips from such and such companies?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I wouldn't say at this point in time we're seeing any more or less than what we have
historically. I think we've seen more announcements.
Q - `Dan Levy, Credit Suisse `
Got it. Thank you.
Operator
And our final question today comes from `Steven Fox, Fox Advisors of Fox Advisors.
Q - `Steven Fox, Fox Advisors `
Hi. Thanks for squeezing me in. Good morning. Just one question from me. When you look to the
full-year guidance and sort of the back half improvements. We were sitting here a year ago,
talking about back half improvements that didn't happen for various reasons, not necessarily of
your fault. So, I'm just trying to gauge the confidence level that we sort of reached a period here
where you could sort of start to see some improvements in supply chain and inflation and any
kind of risk you're gauging going forward? Thanks.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, Business Operations `
Yes. Hey, Steve. Yes, listen, it's obviously where -- we put out a guide. We're confident in the
guide for the full year. Supply chain disruptions are getting better. There are still constraints. But if
you look at it and some of this are particularly in the back half is going to be just lapping what was
very, very disruptive production schedules. If you look at August, September, into October. So,
close to getting better.
We've got -- I decided on the supply we need for the balance of the year from the chip guys. It's
tight. It's expensive to operate. The chips are costing more. There's still going to be some
premium freight. That's really the disruption cost. Again, we do see it getting better and we do
see sort of line of sight to things flow -- product flow improving as the year goes on.Q - `Steven Fox, Fox Advisors `
And the risk to the forecast on all the supply chain and inflation issues?
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, Business Operations `
The way we've thought about it, it's really within the range, Steven. So, at the lower end of the
range, we've obviously got -- our view would be that would bring in more costs. So, we've tried to
sort of manage that within the full-year range, which, again, one of the reasons is, it's hard to call
that obviously by quarter, but I'd really think of it at this point, the risk is really within the range to
the downside. And to some extent, if things were to get better, faster from a material flow
perspective, that's reflective in the higher end of the range.
Q - `Steven Fox, Fox Advisors `
Great. That's really helpful. Thank you.
A - `Joseph R. Massaro, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, Business Operations `
Thank you.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, that is all the time we have for today's fourth quarter Aptiv 2021 earnings
call. We thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.