Q4 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day and welcome to the Aptiv Q4 2024 Earnings Call. Today's conference is being
recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to `Jane Wu, Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate Development, Vice President of
Investor Relations and Corporate Development. Please go ahead.
`Jane Wu, Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate Development `
Thank you, Jess. Good morning, and thank you for joining Aptiv's Fourth Quarter 2024 Earnings
Conference Call. The press release and related tables, along with the slide presentation can be
found on the Investor Relations portion of our website at aptiv.com. Today's review of our
financials exclude amortization, restructuring and other special items, and will address the
continuing operations of Aptiv. The reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP measures for
our fourth quarter and full year 2024 results, as well as our first quarter and full year 2025 outlook
are included at the back of the slide presentation and the earnings press release.
During today's call, we will be providing certain forward-looking information that reflects Aptiv's
current view of future financial performance and may be materially different for reasons that we
cite in our Form 10-K and other SEC filings.
Joining us today will be Kevin Clark, Aptiv's Chair and CEO, and `Varun Laroyia, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer. Kevin will provide a strategic update on the business and
Varun will cover the financial results in more detail before we open the call to Q&A.
With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Kevin Clark.
`Kevin P. Clark, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Jane, and thanks everyone for joining us this morning. Let's begin on Slide 3. Aptiv ended
the year on a solid note with fourth quarter results in line with our expectations, demonstrating
our ability to execute in today's dynamic market environment.Touching on a few of the highlights, new business bookings reached a fourth quarter record of
$10.1 billion, reflecting the strength of our portfolio of industry-leading advanced technologies.
Revenue totaled $4.9 billion, that's down 1%, the result of strong revenue growth from new
program launches across key product lines, offset by continued weakness in production
schedules at select OEMs, primarily in Europe and with multinational joint ventures in China.
Quarterly operating income reached $623 million, reflecting strong operating performance and
ongoing cost-reduction initiatives, which also along with share repurchases and the restructuring
of Aptiv's ownership interest in the Motional joint venture, drove earnings per share growth of
25%. Lastly, operating cash flow totaled a record $1.1 billion, allowing us to accelerate our
deleveraging, which Varun will discuss shortly. In summary, our team is doing an exceptional job
addressing the evolving needs of our customers, while also operating efficiently and further
optimizing our cost structure.
Turning to the next slide to cover our major achievements during 2024. Aptiv continued to
capitalize on the safe, green and connected megatrends, reaching numerous technology
milestones during the year, including two awards for full system Gen 6 ADAS platforms, one of
which is from an EMEA-based OEM that also includes in-cabin sensing and our full suite of Wind
River embedded and studio developer software.
Multiple program launches with Mahindra that utilized our integrated cockpit controller, which
consolidates multiple ECUs into a single compute platform capable of supporting higher levels of
performance and scalability, and the expansion of our portfolio of 48-volt connectors to meet the
increasing demand from OEMs. We're also capitalizing on strong commercial traction with the
local Chinese OEMs leading the transition to software-defined vehicles, reflected in 16% revenue
growth with the domestic OEMs and our recent SVA Zonal Controller Award from Chery that
includes both Wind River and Aptiv software.
And lastly, Wind River's launch of eLxr Pro, which has generated significant interest from the
broader enterprise Linux ecosystem with launch partners including AWS, Capgemini, Intel, SAIC
and Supermicro. These notable achievements during 2024 validate the strength of our industry-
leading portfolio and have resulted in new business bookings of $31 billion, including record
bookings for Signal & Power Solutions, record operating income and earnings per share,
reflecting our strong operating performance and optimized cost structure and record operating
cash flow, positioning us to continue to invest in the business, while also accelerating the return of
a significant amount of capital to shareholders, which will result in more than a 20% reduction in
outstanding shares.
We continued executing on our long-term strategy while also launching a record number of new
vehicle programs and increasing the resiliency of our supply chain. We're extremely proud of our
accomplishments in 2024 and the performance of the Aptiv team.
Moving to Slide 5 to review new business awards. As I mentioned on the previous slide, our
industry-leading portfolio of advanced technologies enabled us to reach just under $31 billion of
new business awards during the year. Advanced Safety and User Experience bookings totaled
$4.4 billion, driven by Active Safety bookings of $2.7 billion, including the two Gen 6 ADAS
platform awards I mentioned earlier, as well as Gen 6 Radar Awards with a German luxury OEM
and two large Japanese OEMs.
Signal & Power Solutions bookings reached $26.4 billion, including $8 billion in the Engineered
Components Group across the full product portfolio in multiple end-markets and a record $18.4
billion in the Electrical Distribution Systems business. And lastly, across all product lines, a record$7 billion of new business in China, of which over $5 billion was with top local Chinese OEMs and a
US based global electric vehicle OEM. With a broad portfolio of advanced technologies that
provides OEMs with increased flexibility at a competitive cost, we have clear line-of-sight to over
$31 billion of new business awards in 2025.
Turning to Slide 6 to review the highlights for our Advanced Safety and User Experience segment,
which achieved record revenue and earnings in 2024, underscoring the competitiveness of our
product portfolio and the strength of our operating capabilities. Revenues increased 2%, driven
by double-digit growth in North America with local OEMs in China, partially offset by low single-
digit declines in Europe and Asia Pacific. Active Safety revenues increased mid-teens, partially
offset by a decline in User Experience revenues due to the roll-off of legacy programs.
Operating margins were over 12%. The benefit of the continued rotation of our engineering
footprint to India and our ongoing adoption of Wind River's DevSecOps tools, which have
improved the productivity of our software developers by over 20%. Wind River revenues
increased 14% in the fourth quarter, primarily driven by studio operator awards in Telco, but full
year revenues were down slightly, the result of the continued slowdown in investment in 5G
infrastructure in Telco, impacting closure rates on commercial opportunities and a longer selling
cycle for studio developer in the automotive and industrial markets.
We increased investment in Wind River's commercial and product organization during the year to
enhance our existing portfolio of products, including VxWorks, operator and developer and also
build new products such as eLxr Pro, which we're confident will drive strong revenue growth in
2025. In addition, the advancements in AI is providing with -- providing Wind River with
incremental growth opportunities as customers look to reduce costs by moving AI workloads to
the edge.
Overall, advanced safety and user experience provides solutions that increase flexibility while
lower cost, making us a partner of choice for our customers. This is reflected in our recent
awards, including a central computer award for active safety and user experience applications
across multiple Geely brands, an award for an integrated cockpit controller from a major global
truck manufacturer, additional awards with leading Japanese OEMs for Gen 6 Radar solution and
an award with Boost Mobile to provide core to edge cloud infrastructure for the world's largest
Open RAN deployment, which demonstrates Wind River's leadership position in the telco
industry.
Turning to the Signal & Power Solutions segment on Slide 7. Revenues declined 3% during the
year with Electrical Distribution Systems impacted by lower vehicle production schedules with
select OEMs in North America and Europe and two multinational JVs in China and Engineered
Components Group benefiting from growth in non-auto markets, offset by lower high voltage
revenue. To drive further margin expansion in Electrical Distribution Systems, we're accelerating
the rotation of our manufacturing footprint to Central America and North Africa, while also
increasing the automation of select manufacturing processes, targeting automation levels of 30%
by 2026 and over 50% in 2030, as we've discussed previously.
We've also demonstrated strong commercial momentum across all regions as reflected in fourth
quarter bookings, including a significant electrical architecture award with a major North American
OEM for their light and heavy-duty truck platforms, over $1 billion of new business awards with
leading local OEMs in China and several customer awards for interconnect solutions in the
aerospace and defense, space and industrial markets.Moving to Slide 8, I wanted to touch on our recent announcement to separate the Electrical
Distribution Systems business from Aptiv, creating two optimally positioned independent
companies, each with its own unique product portfolio and financial profile and with greater
flexibility to pursue their own individual market opportunities and capital allocation strategies, by
enhancing strategic and operational focus.
We're positioning both Aptiv and EDS to more effectively, address the evolving needs of our
customers and to further capitalize on-market opportunities, which we believe will drive even
greater success and value-creation for both companies. We're targeting the completion of the
separation by March 31, 2026, subject to final approval by Aptiv's Board of Directors and
customary conditions. In the meantime, we'll continue to keep investors updated as the
separation progresses and we'll host Investor Days for both Aptiv and EDS in the fall of this year.
Moving to Slide 9 and our outlook for 2025. We remain confident that the trend towards greater
levels of electrification, automation, digitalization and connectivity will continue. With our portfolio
of advanced technologies, Aptiv is well positioned to address the evolving needs of our
customers and to further capitalize on market opportunities across multiple industries.
The market remains dynamic and the recent announcements regarding trade policy has created
incremental uncertainty, which could impact supply chains and vehicle production. As a result, as
Varun will discuss shortly, we believe it's prudent to include additional conservatism for North
American vehicle production in our current outlook for 2025. But to be clear, our outlook has not
factored in changes in tax, trade or tariff policy by the new administration.
We'll monitor the situation closely and take actions as necessary while continuing to capitalize on
growth opportunities, including the continued growth in electric vehicles and ongoing adoption of
advanced ADAS solutions globally and improved customer mix by new vehicle program launches
and continued penetration and accelerated growth with the leading local Chinese OEMs and we'll
continue to optimize our cost structure, pursue strategic capital deployment opportunities,
including further debt paydown, bolt-on M&A and the opportunistic return of cash to shareholders
and flawlessly execute EDS separation targeted for the first quarter of 2026.
I'll now turn the call over to Varun to go through the numbers in more detail.
`Varun Laroyia, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks Kevin, and good morning everyone. Kevin shared an overview of the quarter and I'll share
further details, including insight into segment performance. Additionally, in connection with the
previously announced planned spin-off of our Electrical Distribution Systems business effective
first quarter 2025, we are realigning our business into three reportable segments, EDS, ECG and
AS&UX. To reflect this change, we are furnishing supplemental recast quarterly financial
information for 2024 and 2023.
Starting with Slide 10, Aptiv delivered strong earnings growth in the quarter despite revenues
down 1% as we continue to drive operating performance improvements across the business.
Consistent with the third quarter, revenue growth was impacted by lower vehicle production at
select customers. Fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA and operating income were $811 million and
$623 million respectively, with performance more than offsetting labor economics, which
contributed to an increase in operating margin by 50 basis points over the prior year.
FX and commodities were a $26 million tailwind in the quarter, primarily the favorable impact of
the Mexican peso. We delivered quarterly adjusted earnings per share of $1.75, an increase of
25% from the prior year, which primarily reflects the benefits of share repurchases and therestructuring of the Motional joint-venture. Operating cash flow for the quarter totaled a record
$1.1 billion and capital expenditures were $166 million. Finally, during the quarter, we paid down $1.1
billion of outstanding debt, including the 1.5% euro notes that were due in 2025, as well as $350
million or over half of the term-loan A due in 2027.
Moving to Slide 11. As previously stated, revenue was negatively impacted by lower vehicle
production, which was down 4% in the quarter, driven by revenue on electrified vehicle platforms
down 20% globally. Net price and commodities were positive in the quarter, partially offset by
foreign exchange. Revenue performance was mixed across regions with North America up 3%
driven by strong active safety growth. Europe was down 8%, impacted by slower growth in
electrified vehicle platforms, partially offset by active safety. And China grew 4% with sales to
local OEMs up 25%. Bringing full year 2024 revenue mix in China to 53% with local OEMs, 34%
with multinational joint ventures and the balance with a large global EV manufacturer.
Moving to the AS&UX segment on the next slide. Fourth quarter year-over-year revenues were
up 2%. The active safety product-line grew 15% in the quarter, driven by North America, which
grew over 50% as a result of proliferation across platforms. And the smart vehicle compute and
software product line grew 13% in line with expectations, offset by the user experience product
line, down 12% in the quarter, reflecting roll-offs of legacy programs, as well as lower multinational
JV vehicle production in China.
Fourth quarter adjusted operating income and margin were $193 million and 14% respectively,
resulting from significant year-over-year improvement in operating performance and our
continued focus on cost improvement initiatives. For the full year, revenue grew 2% with strong
active safety growth of 16%, offset by user experience down 12%. Full year operating income and
margins were up 58% to $714 million with 440 basis points of margin expansion.
Turning to Signal & Power on Slide 13. Revenue in the fourth quarter was $3.5 billion, down 2% due
to lower volumes, partially offset by 5% growth in non-auto end markets. Fourth quarter adjusted
operating income was $430 million or 12.1%, impacted by the lower-volume flow through. For the
full year, revenue growth was down 3% as weakness in North America and Europe was partially
offset by 16% growth with local China OEMs, while low voltage and high voltage revenue on
electrified platforms was down 16%. Full year segment adjusted operating income was $1.7 billion
or 11.8%, up 20 basis points, reflecting improved operating performance, as well as net benefit
from price and commodities, while the year-over-year FX impact was not significant.
Turning now to Slide 14 and macro expectations for 2025. As Kevin mentioned, we remain
cautious about the impact of geopolitical factors, including uncertainty around tariffs. While our
outlook does not reflect the direct impacts of potential trade policy changes, we have included
additional conservatism in our expectations for North America production. We are forecasting
Aptiv weighted global vehicle production to be down 3% for the year, reflecting approximately 92
million units.
Regionally, we expect strong full year revenue growth in North America despite production down
5%, driven by content growth with key customers, including the D3, which represent over half our
revenue in the region. Europe production down as major European OEMs transition from ICE to
electrified vehicle platforms, which are expected to grow approximately 20% year-over-year and
China production flat with local China OEMs continuing to win share from multinational joint-
ventures. Given the dynamics as well as our accelerating traction with local players, we are on
track to exit the year approaching market parity on China revenue.Moving to Slide 15 and our full year 2025 full year outlook. While we expect a lower vehicle
production environment, we remain confident that our continuous improvement initiatives will
drive strong operating performance and cash flow generation going forward. Given the volatility
in production schedules last year, we also want to provide guidance on our expectations for the
first quarter.
First quarter revenue is expected to be in the range of $4.6 billion to $4.8 billion, down 3% at the
midpoint. Operating income and adjusted EPS are expected to be $520 million and $1.50 at the
midpoint of the range, respectively. Our full year outlook for revenue is in the range of $19.6
billion to $20.4 billion, up 2% at the midpoint year-over-year, reflecting AS&UX up mid-single digit,
ECG up low-single digits, and EDS flat.
EBITDA and operating income are expected to be approximately $3.19 billion and $2.42 billion at
the midpoint, reflecting flow through on sales growth and performance and cost reduction
initiatives offsetting labor headwinds. Adjusted earnings per share is estimated to be in the range
of $7 and $7.60, up 17% at the midpoint, with operating cash flow of $2.1 billion and capital
expenditures at approximately 4.5% of revenue.
On Slide 16 we provide a bridge of 2025 revenue and operating income guidance as compared
to 2024. Starting with revenue, sales growth of over $500 million is expected to be driven by
active safety, up high-single-digits year-over-year and low voltage at high voltage on electrified
platforms up low-double-digits. We expect annual price declines within the historical range of
down 1.5% to 2%, offset by commodities and recoveries. And FX is estimated to be a headwind
of $200 million.
Turning to adjusted operating income, we expect margin expansion of 10 basis points at the
midpoint of our guide, driven by flow-through on incremental sales, partially offset by net price,
commodities and FX, while performance initiatives are expected to offset incremental labor
inflation. Slide 17 provides further detail on adjusted EPS, building on our strong performance last
year and year-over-year adjusted EPS growth of 17% is driven by volume flow-through, partially
offset by higher tax expense due to the OECD Pillar II implementation and our proactive capital
allocation actions, including share repurchases and our reduced equity holdings in Motional.
Before handing the call back to Kevin, I would like to touch upon our cash flow outlook. While we
generated a record $2.4 billion in operating cash flow in 2024, we expect 2025 to be impacted
by a return to growth and a strategic inventory build of semiconductors in anticipation of possible
shortages in late 2025 and early 2026, which we will calibrate based on availability and demand
forecasts. We will also continue to maintain a balanced approach to capital allocation, including
investing in the business to drive innovation that will deliver sustainable profitable growth. And
while we increased leverage last year to return capital to shareholders, including the $3 billion
GSR, we are ahead of our commitment to delever our balance sheet.
Building on our debt paydown in the fourth quarter, as I mentioned earlier, and stronger
performance in cash, we have retired an additional $250 million year-to-date, thereby
extinguishing the term-loan A in its entirety and bringing our total debt paydown in the last two
months to $1.4 billion. We also plan to accelerate further debt paydown into the first half of 2025.
We will consider utilizing excess cash to explore bolt-on M&A opportunities and opportunistically
return capital to shareholders, all within the parameters of investment-grade ratings.
With that, I'd now like to hand the call back to Kevin for his closing remarks.
`Kevin P. Clark, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `Thanks, Varun. I'll wrap up on Slide 19 before opening the line for questions. As the management
team reflects on 2024, we expect the market to remain dynamic and the pace of innovation to
continue to accelerate and drive ongoing transformation across industries. Looking forward, while
our 2025 guidance does not include the impact of future policy changes, including tariffs, we
believe that we've taken an appropriately conservative approach to our outlook.
We've purpose built our technology portfolio to deliver flexible, high performance and cost-
effective solutions that address our customers' needs all on a global scale and at the same time,
we remain committed to flawlessly executing and delivering a strong operational performance,
enabling us to unlock incremental profitability and deliver long-term value to our shareholders. In
closing, I'm proud of what the Aptiv team accomplished during 2024 and I'm excited about what
we'll deliver in the years ahead.
Operator, let's now open the line for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We will now take our first question from `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America at Bank
of America.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
Good morning, guys. Kevin, just a first question on your statement that you're taking somewhat
of a conservative outlook, which is totally understandable given what's going on in the world and
the country in the US right now. But when you look at that down 5% in North America, if we said
that was closer to flat, it seems like you would add, I don't know, $360 million, $370 million more
of sales roughly. If that were to occur, what kind of incremental margin and I'm saying if, right? I
mean it's a big if. What kind of incremental margin do you think you would get on those
incremental sales that were to occur?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. So, John, let me start with just a process on it. Just in light of a couple of things, one, just
the dynamics from a geopolitical standpoint, the dynamics as it relates to policy, whether that be
trade, whether it be tariff, whether it be tax, we think it's very, very important at this point in time
to be more conservative, quite frankly. And then when you overlay on top of that, the fact that
inventories in North America are still relatively high, especially for the D3, where we have a fair
amount of exposure, that's something that we're watching closely as well. As we look at the first
quarter in the early part of this year, a lot of progress has been made reducing that during the
fourth quarter of last year, but inventories still remain relatively high. So as we came into the year
and we thought about the first quarter, that was the context or the lens that we were viewing it
through.
So as it relates to our vehicle production in North America being stronger in the first quarter, it's a
possibility. It's -- again, it's not in our guidance. We would expect volumes to flow in the range that
we've traditionally talked about in that 18% to 22% sort of flow-through range on volume. But
again, we've not included that in our guidance and we've done that very intentionally just given
the environment right now.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `Okay. And then just a second follow-up on Slide 5 of $31 billion of gross bookings is another big,
big year for you. As you kind of walk forward two to three years out, has anything changed in sort
of the mix of customers in China? And are you shifting more quickly towards the domestics than
you were previously. Just curious how -- if there are any updated thoughts there?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I'm not sure if it's more rapid. It's been rapid the last 12 or 24 months. I think we picked up
roughly 10 points of share with of mix with local Chinese OEMs during 2024, maybe a little bit less
than that. I think our outlook for 2025 is a full 10 point increase. So at the end of 2025, early 2026,
we should be at parity with market mix in terms of vehicle production of locals versus the
multinationals. So, we've made a lot of progress and that's what accounts for as you look at our
outlook for the full year relative to where we are guiding in the first quarter. That's some of the
pickup in revenue that we're seeing now and we expect to continue through the balance of 2025.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
Great. Very helpful. Thank you very much.
Operator
We'll move next to Joe Spak with UBS.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, UBS `
Good morning, everyone. Kevin, may be just going back to sort of the conservatism comment,
are there any other areas of the outlook that you'd highlight besides that sort of adjustment to
North American production. And somewhat related, I mean, just the growth over market, which I
know is not sort of an official metric anymore, but implied in North America, may be just some
commentary on what's driving that for the year?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, again, as it relates to conservatism overall, the bulk of it sits in North America. I would say
Europe and US, we have a more conservative outlook for EV growth market right now, I believe
IHS is forecasting roughly 20% growth. In EV production, our outlook from a revenue standpoint is
roughly 10% plus, so mid-single digits. So we've taken a more conservative approach from a
revenue outlook, given our experience last year.
As you look at growth over market in North America, I would say it's really a couple things. It's a
case of launch cadence back half of this year and into the start of next year. So new program
launches were up roughly 10% last year versus the prior year. A lot of that was really starting in Q2
through Q3 and Q4, and we'll benefit from that. And then I would say, Joe, there's a little bit of a
normalization as it relates to a couple of the OEMs where we saw significant corrections or
reductions in their vehicle production schedules in 2024, especially in the third and fourth
quarters, we expect that to effectively normalize and not see the same level of decline. So I'd
refer to it as stability basically in schedules.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, UBS `
Okay. Thank you for that. I guess just as a second question, this is, I know bigger picture because
there's obviously a lot going on. But it sounds like the automakers as they I guess, should be at
least have some contingency planning scenarios if they have to react to tariffs even if my
impression is that still might be a lower probability.But I guess, I'm sure you're doing something similar from a contingency plan perspective. I am
curious though if any of those OEM conversations have cascaded down to you because if
anything like this were to need to occur, there would obviously need to be some pretty
meaningful coordination and time and validation and ramp-up. So I guess I just want to
understand how you guys are internally planning for this and the level of coordination across the
value chain?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I would say the level of coordination is pretty good. I think the magnitude of what was
initially proposed regarding tariffs within North America from an industry standpoint was a bit
surprising. But I would say we've been working with our OEM customers of late last year, early this
year as it relates to where possible for deploying inventory. As we've talked about a lot last year
in terms of supply-chain and supply-chain visibility, that's something that we're very closely
connected with our OEMs globally on.
We spent a lot of time with our North American OEMs, making sure they understand our supply
chains well. So we've developed, I would say, at least near-term plans in terms of addressing
some of the challenges that if there was a flip of a switch on how we would deal with that,
including investments in inventory, including areas where we have duplicate manufacturing in
North America and other regions.
And then some discussion, I wouldn't call them firm plans at this point in time, but some
discussions about alignment of their production schedules and importantly, product mix to
simplify the situation so that we can pre-produce products in certain areas where it's a little bit
more complicated to do. For example, wire harnesses, products like that. So I would say we're
reasonably coordinated to the extent this gets implemented, but ultimately, obviously, it would
be somewhat disruptive.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, UBS `
Yeah. Okay. Appreciate that. Thank you.
Operator
We'll move to `Chris McNally, Analyst, Evercore with Evercore.
Q - `Chris McNally, Analyst, Evercore `
Thanks [ph] team. Just that you can see the tone of everyone's questions is around the
conservatism in the guide in Q1, Kevin, particularly around the volatility we've seen in mix over the
last two years. And I think one of the things that we will struggle with is the discussion of
production that you give for Q1 and you look below IHS minus 5%, minus 3%. But that's probably
on a active regionally adjusted basis. Have you looked at those numbers for top customers,
where your top customers are for Q1 and full year just so we can have a sense of how much the
conservatism is built in?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, listen, we're not going to provide kind of specific customer sort of production schedules,
right, Chris, and you understand that. Our -- is our estimate for production lower than what
customers' schedules currently show? Yes, they are, they are. And in our forecasting process and
guidance process and planning process, we've gone through customer-by-customer, platform-by-platform, region-by-region. So we've gone through it in detail. Have those been haircut? Yes.
Have they been haircut more than they typically are for the first quarter? Yes.
Last year was volatile, though is as you said, we don't want to go through that again. But then
overlaid on top of that, what we do worry about is, just given some of the announcements
regarding trade policy and tariffs, that does introduce a certain amount of uncertainty into the
system, which in our view will affect supply chains. And when it affects supply chains, it will affect
production. It's tough to predict exactly how much, but it will. So we've gone through that process
and so the best as we can, as we could estimated what we thought Q1 could look like in light of
some element of that uncertainty. I know that's not as detailed answer, but we try to be very
(Multiple Speakers) on it.
Q - `Chris McNally, Analyst, Evercore `
Yeah. And Kevin, I would say, I mean, look, I think trying to figure out March depending upon how
tariffs play out is sort of across the street, no one has really done. So that's actually super helpful.
And you did call out North America. I think which is where the concern lies, particularly when we've
seen two of the three OEMs who had good years sort of last year already being cautious on Q1,
and you mentioned the third who is going to rebound.
Just a simple one for me. I don't know if this has been answered yet. I apologize if it has. Just sort
of peso benefit year-over-year. We've been sort of waiting for it. We got a little bit of help in the
second half, but with peso at 21 [ph], should this be a tailwind of material form to margin in '25?
Thanks so much.
A - `Varun Laroyia, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Hey, Chris, it's Varun out here. Listen, it's all about managing risk, right? And so we tend to take
out hedges and that basically is what it is. So, no, we don't really expect it to -- we've kind of
covered that risk for 2025.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So no big tailwind as it as it relates to peso weakening if that continues to happen.
Q - `Chris McNally, Analyst, Evercore `
Excellent. Thanks so much, team.
Operator
We'll move next to `Dan Levy, Analyst, Barclays with Barclays.
Q - `Dan Levy, Analyst, Barclays `
Hi, good morning. Thanks for taking the questions. I wanted to ask about the China commentary,
which shows that you're expecting some underperformance versus the China market. Is this just a
continuation of what we saw in 2025 -- or 2024 where it was just a couple of key customers that
were dragging down results, but you're still growing with the domestics. Maybe you could just
provide a little more color on the expectations within China and the domestic versus multinational
split?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `Yeah. We expect our China locals to continue to take significant share. Not to the extent that they
did in 2024, but they'll continue to take significant share. We expect the multinationals -- global
multinational traditional OEMs to continue to lose fairly significant share. That's factored into our
outlook. I think the net impact for us is our revenue growth versus vehicle production in China is
basically -- our growth over vehicle production is down 1% versus what it was in 2024. So we're
closing that gap. We have internally a more, I'd say, aggressive outlook for China local share gain
relative to what IHS has. I mean, we're north of 75% share gain in 2025. So we expect them to
continue to take some share. And as I mentioned, we'll reduce the differential and growth versus
market down to about roughly 1 point. And then in 2026, as I mentioned, we're at parity.
Q - `Dan Levy, Analyst, Barclays `
Okay. And the underlying domestic growth, that's in line with sort of where the market is.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
The underlying outlook for domestic growth, our outlook is slightly higher than what IHS would
have for vehicle production growth. And our growth with those customers is over their market-
share growth rate. So we're growing over market with the local OEMs in China.
Q - `Dan Levy, Analyst, Barclays `
Okay, great. Thank you. As a follow-up, wanted to ask about some of the cost actions, which you
had talked about on the third quarter call. I think there are a number of things you talked about,
salary reductions and flexing the workforce and material cost, manufacturing, pricing. I see in your
bridge that you're assuming some positive performance, but maybe you could just double-click
on the extent to which you're seeing benefits on the cost actions, what's low-hanging fruit versus
what's going to take a little more effort to achieve on the cost side?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Maybe I'll start at a high level and Varun can answer in more detail, if that's okay. The last couple
of years -- the last several years, we've been very focused on reducing overhead. You've heard
us talk about that. Last year, we had roughly a 10% reduction in salaried workforce, this year within
our plan. We were targeting mid-single digits. And given what we're hearing regarding trade,
trade policy, we'll be increasing that to some extent just to provide additional room and offset
any incremental risk that's out there. So those are our activities that we have a pretty good
muscle for. I think as it relates to when you think about footprint rotation, that requires a bit more
effort, but it's something that obviously we do.
When you think about material cost savings, there's two aspects to that. There's the leveraging
price-to-price, which the team has done a great job. I think the mapping of our supply chain,
building our digital twin and significantly increasing visibility to BOM costs and where there's
leverage that's paying dividends, although it requires negotiation, it requires effort and
negotiating with both customer and supplier.
And then when you think about what's more permanent engineering in low-cost solutions or
engineering out higher-cost components, that's something the Group or the team has been
doing for the last couple of years and a big portion of our year-over-year material performance in
2025 will be the result of that. It's important to note though that to do that, it requires support
from our OEM customers. And at times, customers giving constraints on resources are less
focused on it, but that's an area that we've made a lot of progress.A - `Varun Laroyia, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
No, Kevin, I think that's comprehensive.
Q - `Dan Levy, Analyst, Barclays `
Great. Thank you. That's very helpful.
Operator
We'll move next to `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Wolfe Research with Wolfe Research.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Thanks. Good morning. My first question is around the outlook for EDS. I wanted to zoom in to it
because it will obviously be its own stock soon enough and investors need to understand how to
value it. So basically looks like revenues was down 6% in 2024, in your guidance for 2025, you
assume stable revenue in EDS? And then obviously, when you announced the future spin-off, mid-
single digit is sort of like the mid-term target in terms of growth for it. So can you maybe just give
a little bit of color on what do you expect for this year? Why just stable if electrification
accelerates a little bit maybe in Europe? And then what will drive this acceleration to mid-single
digit through 2028?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Emmanuel, so adjusted growth for EDS in 2024 was down 5%. A big driver of that were the
customers we mentioned, but then an incremental overlay as it relates to high voltage or EV
exposure. So put it in perspective, high voltage revenues for that -- for the EDS business were
down just shy of 20% in 2024. So significant impact throughout the year. Our outlook for growth in
2025 is basically flat growth, so about 3 points over global vehicle production in terms of our
outlook for average weighted market growth. When you look at our view for EV penetration
adoption and the impact on overall growth rate, we would expect roughly a mid double-digit
growth in EDS on -- in the EV space to be a driver as well as strong growth with commercial
vehicle OEMs who -- we've had a concerted effort over the last couple of years to diversify
revenues more broadly in transportation, so the benefit there.
So we would say as we look at the -- at 2025, those are the primary drivers. As we look at
beyond 2025, it's the continued pace of EV adoption. It's continued market-share gains. We
talked about our bookings in EDS in 2024, how strong they were. They were actually strong in
2023 as well. So it's even -- it's low voltage as well as high voltage growth, market-share
penetration and the roll-on of those new programs that will drive growth in the out years beyond
2025.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Got it. Thanks for the color. And then I wanted to come back on the potential for cost reductions.
So in this year's guidance, you have about $400 million of performance offsetting essential labor
economics and increased depreciation. What is the potential for Aptiv to take further cost actions
or the appetite for it beyond just sort of like performance and efficiencies. We've seen some
other suppliers meaningfully scale back maybe RD&E based on maybe a slower pace of
electrification than previously anticipated. Is there room to do something that is sort of like more
structural or have those actions already been taken and now it's really about offsetting the
economics?A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Listen, there's always an opportunity, Emmanuel. So we're always focused on it. I
mentioned to you what we're doing from payroll reduction. So that will continue. On footprint
rotation, especially within the EDS business has been accelerated. So we'll get benefits there as
well. Material cost is a big piece of what we -- a big piece of our cost structure and the BOM for --
BOM as it relates to build material for OEMs, so that's an area that we're really focused.
From an engineering standpoint, we had a lot of productivity out of engineering in 2024, I mean a
lot. And we did that principally by -- it wasn't about reducing advanced engineering or R&D, it was
more about operating engineering. So program launch, manufacturing engineering within our
facilities, software development engineering within AS&UX. So those were areas where we were
able to get that productivity and we'd expect to continue to get productivity out of engineering in
2025. Transparently, it won't be as significant as it was in 2024, just given the size of the change
in 2024.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
We'll move to `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley. with Morgan Stanley.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley. `
Hey, everybody. A bit of longer-term question if I may. You mentioned aerospace and defense in
the S&PS and also like diversifying your TAM within Wind River as well. I'm curious who are you
winning business with? How significant is the aerospace and defense contribution today and I'm
curious how big this could be? And any other TAM that you might describe here, because your
customers, I believe, especially post spin, if you only anchor your revenue to the auto industry and
the legacy auto industry, there are scenarios where those companies are going to be much,
much smaller and many of them won't exist.
So if I even see kind of a gold standard of Western EV, Tesla, they're effectively -- they're
pillaging resources, getting resources out-of-the traditional electric vehicle market into other
markets, even humanoids and things. That gives you a very unique perspective, I think, of those
next TAM. So I didn't know if you and the border are kind of actively tracking this and any
messages that you had for investors today thinking longer term of the surface area between
what you do and other expressions of smart machines beyond just cars? Thanks.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Adam, it's a great question. And I would say it's one of the big pillars of our strategy that
the Board has us focus on in terms of diversification into adjacent markets, accelerating that,
making sure that's a priority from a business plan, a strategy and quite frankly, from a
compensation standpoint. Aerospace and defense is one of those priority markets. There are
applications as you mentioned, for what we do now in those markets. Today within the A&D
space, when you consider what we have within the S&PS business and AS&UX business, it's
probably about $400 million in revenues growing fast.
It's a higher-margin profile. It is a longer selling cycle, but we have strong relationships with all of
the primes in the A&D space, as well as the various parts of the Armed Forces. So they're existingcustomers today and we're looking to leverage the position that Wind River has and that our
portfolio of businesses within Winchester have to continue to penetrate that market. And
obviously, it's going to be a high-growth market.
I'd say the second area outside of Aerospace and Defense is in and around energy and energy
distribution. There's a relationship that we have with a global EV OEM where that's one of the
areas where we've been awarded business and we expect to continue to be awarded business
and participate in that. So that is an exciting area.
And then lastly, your point on robots, humanoids, others, whether it be the edge software or it be
from Wind River or it'd be the perception systems for AS&UX or it be the vehicle architecture
solutions or the wire harnesses and connectors from S&PS. Those are all opportunities. And again
with -- there are a couple of customers that we're actually working on that specific area now.
Those revenues aren't quite as significant at this point, though, to be transparent.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley. `
Thanks, Kevin. You guys made our Humanoid 100, by the way. So congratulations, but look
forward to continuing with the discussion. That's all I got.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Varun Laroyia, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
We'll go to `Colin Langan, Analyst, Wells Fargo with Wells Fargo.
Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Oh, great. Thanks for taking my questions. Just wanted to follow-up on -- if I go through the
margin walk on Slide 16. You talked about the pace is not an issue this year. If I translate the FX, it
would be smaller than $100 million drag. What is driving that headwind for FX on margin. And also
what is the net price in commodity? Is there a commodity headwind we should be thinking about
too?
A - `Varun Laroyia, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. It's Colin, it's Varun out here. As I mentioned earlier, with regard to the Mexic -- the Mexican
peso, we are largely hedged. So even a weakening of that currency really doesn't bring us any
tailwinds. And then with regards to the other commodity where we actively participate from a
hedging perspective is copper. And then that's the other area where we essentially are hedged
also.
So again, it's all about managing risk for us within the FX and the commodity side of it. Clearly,
there are some elements with regards to what credit policy and stuff is coming through. And you
know with the US dollar, we're still see some fluctuations out there. And while we are largely
hedged for some of the major currencies, we do see some risk out there.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `Yeah, maybe if I can add to it, just so I think, Colin, the headwinds on FX are largely euro and RMB
related, okay. When you think about '24 to 2025, so just that sort of walk. As Varun said, from a
copper standpoint, that's largely indexed with our customers. So that hedge remains in place. We
hedge incremental amounts above what's not been -- what's not indexed, but that's not a huge
amount. Those are the big pieces of that.
As it relates to price and price recoveries, our expectation, I think we've talked about it is pricing
to be somewhere between 1.5% and 2%. Historically, we've done a good job managing through
that, as you know. We have some element of price recoveries in our plan, not remotely close to
what we've had in historical periods. But there still is some element of labor recovery, especially
as it relates to Mexico and still a few items related to material inflation from prior periods that we
need to close-out on.
Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Got it. And we talked a lot about trying to catch-up with the mix with locals in China. There is
growing concern about the profitability on that business because the product cycle is so short, it's
kind of hard to sort of get your costs back from all the upfront investment. Any color on how your
margins with China locals look today and whether you're able to kind of get the added sort of
tooling costs given the shorter life-cycle of products over there?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. So first, we're very selective in terms of those programs and customers we're pursuing. As
we mentioned -- you've heard us mention previously, we're really focused on those that want to
either export or expand manufacturing outside of China. We feel like we can bring more value in
those programs, quite frankly have less price pressure. On average, you do see a lower margins
on those programs. We've been able to balance it to date or I should say lower pricing on those
programs. We've been able to balance it to date with further cost reductions.
So our China team is -- has been consolidating footprint as an example, to the extent we're
investing in the development of new technologies, we're getting support from the Chinese
government to the extent we're investing in engineering, we've used the opportunity to ship
footprint out of, for instance, Shanghai into other locations west to lower our overall costs. And
again, not only the hourly cost differential lower, but we've been able to get pretty good support
from the Chinese government in terms of enabling that, both from setting up facility standpoint,
as well as subsidizing the employees, so.
Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Got it. All right. Thanks for taking my questions.
Operator
We'll move to our final question from `Tom Narayan, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets with RBC Capital Markets.
Q - `Tom Narayan, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Thanks for taking my question. The first question is on AFC WEX. We heard from one of the D3s
last night that they are in a critical point in deciding on what to do with advanced autonomy,
whether they work in-house or do more partnerships with others. And we've experienced here
guys Level II plus demo at CES, and quite impressive, not overly costly. Just curious if in recent
months, you've experienced an increase in interest for advanced autonomy and on the flip side,the UX side, it seems to be structural kind of impediments there. Just curious how you see that
business playing out, if there's things you could do to reverse any structural issues there?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Tom, good questions on both. So I would -- we would say that we're in more discussions
with more OEMs as it relates to Advanced ADAS. They like our cost-effective solution. I think
several of them are dealing with kind of vehicle architecture decisions, platform mix decisions,
which is making that decision and that process play-out over a longer period of time. There's a lot
of the interest, lots of interest in our solution, given its cost.
I think fewer of the OEMs are now of the view that there are certain aspects of this that are our
religion and they need to own that there's a more cost-effective approach from a supplier
standpoint, especially in our case where we've developed solutions that are open architected
that gives them flexibility to contribute to the platform, to do more to do less on and even
supplier alternatives, whether it be on the SOC or it be on the perception system. So we're trying
to present them with the flexibility -- that flexibility. So we're in the midst of
negotiation/discussions with multiple OEMs across the globe now. I feel like that will translate into
significant bookings during 2025. I'd say a few of the decisions dragged out of 2024 into 2025,
but we keep working at it.
As it relates to UX, we have some programs that we're working on now that we expect will
translate into awards. You're right, the traditional infotainment model that operated within
automotive five years ago. It's very different today. Our real focus is in and around the software
or the cockpit controller with end-user experience, especially given the trend to see the up
integration of the user experience to domain controller into the ADAS controller. So that's a place
that we continue to play. There's a couple of large pursuits that we're in the midst of at this point
in time awards that will position that business for stronger growth.
And listen, we continue to evaluate our entire product portfolio in terms of where it sits, what it's
enabling for our customers, what the return is and how do we maximize value for shareholders.
So that's one of the areas that we consistently, just given some of the changes we're consistently
evaluating.
Q - `Tom Narayan, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Okay. And my quick follow-up, on that semis topic, just the shortfall you see. Is that -- is this
company-specific or is it like an industry-wide dynamic or something you were always expecting?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Our concern is an industry-wide dynamic with the advancements in AI and the need for
more compute, that you're going to see more pull into computers, into laptops, into other areas.
So a possibility that you see a shortage of semiconductors in areas that were similar to what we
saw back a few years ago. So we're going to monitor the situation very closely. Varun is all over
this and to the extent we start seeing extended kind of periods in terms of order and delivery of
product, we'll start ramping-up investment in inventory. If we don't see it, we won't make the
investment, but we thought it prudent to include in our outlook for free cash flow.
Q - `Tom Narayan, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Got it. Thank you.Operator
And that will wrap up the Q&A portion of today's call. I will now turn the conference back to Mr.
Kevin Clark for any additional or closing response.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you everyone for participating in our call. We appreciate you joining us and look forward to
seeing all of you in the upcoming NDRs and other conferences that we'll be attending. So thank
you very much and have a great day.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, that will conclude today's conference. We thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect at this time and have a great day.