Q4 2025 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, and welcome to the Aptiv Q4 2025 Earnings Call. Today's conference is being
recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Betsy Frank, Vice President,
Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
`Betsy Miller Frank, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Jess. Good morning, and thank you for joining Aptiv's Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings
Conference Call. The press release and related tables, along with the slide presentation, can be
found on the Investor Relations portion of our website at aptiv.com. Today's review of our
financials exclude amortization, restructuring, and other special items and will address the
continuing operations of Aptiv.
The reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP measures are included at the back of the slide
presentation and the earnings press release. Unless otherwise stated, all references to growth
rates are on an adjusted year-over-year basis.
During today's call, we will be providing certain forward-looking information that reflects Aptiv's
current view of future financial performance and may be materially different for reasons that we
cite in our Form 10-K and other SEC filings.
We will begin today's call with a strategic update from Kevin Clark, Aptiv's Chair and Chief
Executive Officer. Then `Varun Laroyia, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Aptiv's Chief Financial Officer, will cover our results and
guidance in more detail. We'll then have brief remarks from Joe Liotine, Versigent's Chief
Executive Officer, before Kevin and Varun take your questions.
With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Kevin.
`Kevin P. Clark, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `Thanks, Betsy, and thanks, everyone, for joining us this morning. Starting on Slide 3, we capped
off 2025 with another solid quarter in which we seamlessly navigated ongoing changes in the
macro-environment.
Our resilient operating model, which leverages our industry-leading engineering innovation,
integrated global supply chain and manufacturing footprint, and best-in-class commercial
capabilities, enables us to execute flawlessly in this dynamic environment.
As we discussed at our recent Investor Day, we've been successfully leveraging our product
portfolio and operating model to penetrate non-automotive markets where the shared secular
trends of automation, electrification, and digitalization are aligning customer needs for mission-
critical applications across automotive, A&D, telecom, industrials, and other markets. And our
momentum continued during the fourth quarter across all segments.
As reflected by our partnership announcements with two robotics companies, Robust.AI and
Vecna Robotics, spanning sensing, compute, and software in intelligent systems. The launch of
our modular connector series, developed jointly by our automotive and aerospace teams and
engineered components for multiple end market applications, and a new business award for
energy storage and management, and electrical distribution systems.
Overall, we posted strong bookings in the quarter, validating customer confidence in our
operating model across both geographic regions and end markets. During the quarter, we
finalized the leadership team for our electrical distribution systems business, which remains on
track to spin out Versigent on April 1st, under the leadership of Joe Liotine, who you'll hear from in
a moment. We're confident that Versigent is well positioned to deliver continued value to their
customers and create value for their shareholders.
Turning to our financial highlights, we reported record fourth quarter revenue of $5.2 billion, an
increase of 3%, reflecting strength across multiple areas of our business. Adjusted operating
income totaled $607 million as flow-through on volume growth and strong operating
performance helped offset stronger-than-anticipated headwinds from FX and commodities. And
combined with lower net interest expense and a lower share count, earnings per share totaled
$1.86.
Lastly, we generated $818 million of operating cash flow, more than half of which we deployed
towards share repurchases and debt reduction. Varun will discuss each of these in more detail a
bit later. I'd like to turn to Slide 4 to touch on our achievements during 2025, and review the
progress we made further strengthening our business model and increasing shareholder value.
First, we continue to enhance our product portfolio with the launch of a number of new
innovations across each of our segments, including interconnect product lines that leverage our
expertise in both the automotive and aerospace markets. Next generation sensing and AI-
powered software solutions that deliver market-leading performance at a competitive cost for
applications across a broad range of end markets. And lastly, high-power distribution solutions for
applications and energy storage.
Second, we continue to gain new business with target automotive OEMs and further penetrate
higher growth, higher margin non-automotive markets as reflected by almost $4 billion of new
business bookings with leading local China OEMs. New business awards with non-China Asian
OEMs, that totaled just under $4 billion, representing an increase of 20% over the prior year, and
non-automotive new business bookings that reached more than $4 billion.Third, we continue to strengthen our operating model to further enhance our execution
capabilities and enable profitable growth, including the continued enhancement of our supply
chain digital twin with 95% visibility down to at least Tier 3 levels and 99% of our semiconductor
supply chain down to Tier 5 level.
The opening of a new engineering technical center in Chennai, India to support our growing
software and services business and further optimization of our manufacturing footprint through
the consolidation of seven facilities in North America, EMEA and Asia-Pacific, all which enabled us
to deliver record financial performance, including the impact of headwinds associated with tariffs,
FX, and commodity prices, further complemented by disciplined capital allocation, which Varun
will talk about in more detail shortly.
Moving to Slide 5 to review our new business bookings. As expected, customer awards were
strong in the fourth quarter, leading a record second half of the year bookings, bringing full-year
new business awards to $27 billion, short of our target of $31 billion, the result of customer
awards shifting to the first half of 2026, as we previewed in the last quarter.
Customer awards were strong across each of our segments and were highlighted by awards in
the China market, totaling $5 billion, of which almost $4 billion was with the leading local China
OEMs. Awards with Japanese and Korean OEMs that totaled $3 billion, representing a mid single-
digit increase over the prior year, and new business bookings in the rapidly-growing India market,
which increased significantly to over $800 billion.
We exited the year with a large and growing pipeline of commercial opportunities and expect
2026 bookings for Total Aptiv, including Versigent, to increase to over $30 billion. Let's now
review each segment in more detail.
Moving to Slide 6 to review fourth quarter and full year highlights for our Intelligent Systems
segment. A couple of notable program and product launches in the quarter include numerous
launches of local China OEMs across our product portfolio, including a Gen 7 Radar launch with a
time to market of just four months. Smart camera launch also leveraging Wind River VxWorks, and
launches that leverage Local China for China solutions for SoCs and software.
The launch of an interior sensing system for a leading commercial vehicle OEM, incorporating
advanced biometric and intention monitoring software features. The launch of new ADAS
software features on an existing system for a leading European OEM. And the introduction of
next-generation radar solutions, as well as the Wind River Cloud platform for AI-ready private
cloud applications.
Moving to new business bookings, which were principally driven by strong demand for our Aptiv
safety products, a Gen 6 ADAS system award spanning multiple models and variants for a
leading Indian commercial vehicle OEM that includes the full software stack and Gen 8 Radar
solution.
A next-generation high-performance compute solution spanning multiple platforms developed in
partnership with a top global OEM. And a full-stack ADAS system for a large Korean OEM,
incorporating Aptiv software and sensors, reflecting the continued expansion of our technology
partnership.
In addition, we announced multiple new partnerships featuring integration with our innovative
sensing solutions, such as PULSE, Advanced Compute, and Wind River software suite, with Vecna
Robotics to co-develop next-generation autonomous mobile robots or AMRs, enhancing safety,
intelligence, and cost-effectiveness across warehouses and factories. And Robust.AI to co-develop AI-powered cobots, accelerating innovation in warehouse and industrial automation.
We're encouraged by the momentum we have in the robotics sector and look forward to sharing
further developments during 2026.
Lastly, Wind River established a strategic partnership with a leading global cybersecurity provider
to jointly pursue next-gen software tech stack opportunities in the automotive market.
Moving to Slide 7 to review the fourth quarter and full-year highlights for our Engineered
Components segment. Our product and program launches, as well as our new business awards,
validate the strength of our product portfolio and operating capabilities across multiple end
markets.
Notable new product program launches during the quarter include the LiteSPEed single paired
ethernet technology for applications across increasingly connected and space-constrained end
markets such as A&D, industrial automation, and next-gen mobility.
A compact connector featuring high-speed data interfaces for seamless integration with sensors
for Japanese OEMs' SUV models. A next-generation safety-critical rapid power reserve for a local
Chinese OEM's all-electric SUV and a high voltage connector launch for a European OEM's global
EV platform.
New business bookings included a modular connector award for a major European OEM, enabling
scalability across platforms to support next-gen architectures, and award from a leading North
American OEM on their top-selling truck and SUV platform, including high-speed interconnects,
connectors, and terminals. And a ruggedized high-performance interconnect award for use in
marine applications, validating the lightweight, flexible, and highly durable nature of our products.
Turning to Slide 8 to review our Electrical Distribution Systems segment. New program launches
reflected the strength of our new business awards over the past few years, including a launch for
a high-volume SUV program for the leading North American-based global electric vehicle OEM.
The launch of above and extended range EV for a local China OEM that are planned for export
markets, a launch for a major India OEM's premium SUV, and a complete low-voltage commercial
vehicle launch for a next-generation high-performance agricultural vehicle.
Moving to new business awards with span all major geographic regions and included an award
with a leading China-based global electric vehicle OEM for production in Europe, serving as a key
enabler of their regional manufacturing expansion. An award with a leading European-based
global OEM on their new software-defined vehicle architecture, an award for low and high
voltage content across brands, models, and powertrains for a Korean OEM. And lastly, an award
for a high-efficiency energy storage solution engineered for grid optimization.
In summary, we executed well throughout 2025 and finished the year with strong momentum in
the fourth quarter. Each of our three segments is enhancing their market positioning, deepening
their customer engagement, and broadening their revenue mix through the penetration of new
end markets and regions. The customer awards we've received validate our strategy and the
investments we're making to capture the opportunity ahead.
I'll now turn the call over to Varun to go through our financial results and our full-year and first
quarter guidance in more detail.
`Varun Laroyia, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Kevin, and good morning, everyone. Starting with our fourth-quarter financials on Slide 9.focus on driving operational efficiencies, and reducing cost across our business. Revenues totaled
$5.2 billion, an increase of 5% on a reported basis and up 3% on an adjusted basis.
Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted operating income margin rates were in line with our Q4 outlook
and down only modestly on an absolute basis year-over-year. This was entirely driven by the
impact of unfavorable foreign exchange and commodities, which amounted to a 160 basis point
headwind to margin in the quarter. Excluding FX and commodities, our Q4 operating income
margin would have been up 70 basis points versus prior year, reflecting flow-through on volume
and ongoing performance improvements.
Earnings per share totaled $1.86, an increase of 6% from the prior year, reflecting the benefit of
share repurchases and lower interest expense from capital deployment initiatives over the
course of the year, partially offset by a higher tax rate.
Operating cash flow totaled $818 million, a decrease versus the prior year, owing to an increase in
net working capital as we continued to invest in semiconductor inventory, as well as
approximately $80 million in separation costs related to the upcoming spin-off of Versigent.
Turning to the next slide and looking at fourth quarter adjusted revenue growth on a regional
basis. In North America, revenue grew 8% with double-digit growth in both Intelligent Systems
and EDS. In Europe, revenue was down 1%, in line with vehicle production in the region and
relatively comparable across our segments.
And in China, revenue was down 5%, reflecting the continued impact of unfavorable mix. That
being said, our performance versus the market in China improved further this quarter, a positive
sign as the team works to further enhance our customer mix. And of note, approximately 80% of
our China new business awards in 2025 were from the local OEMs.
Moving on to our segment performance on Slide 11. Starting with Intelligent Systems, revenue of
$1.4 billion increased 2% versus the prior year, predominantly driven by North America and the
benefit of new program launches. Intelligent Systems' operating income declined 17%, reflecting
three items.
First, investments across both product and go-to-market capabilities as we continue to expand
into non-auto markets. Second, the timing of engineering and commercial -- engineering credits
and commercial recoveries. And third, unfavorable FX.
For Engineered Components, revenue of $1.6 billion increased 1% versus the prior year. Operating
income increased 8%, and margin expanded 60 basis points, driven by flow-through on volume
and continued performance improvements. This more than offset the impact of unfavorable FX
and commodities, which were driven by higher copper, gold, and silver prices.
And lastly, for our EDS business, revenue of $2.3 billion increased 5%, principally driven by North
America. EDS operating income declined 2% year-over-year, and margin contracted 90 basis
points. This was driven by a significant headwind from FX and commodities as well as unfavorable
labor economics, which were partially offset by performance improvements across
manufacturing, material, and volume flow-through.
Now let's turn to cash flow before we discuss guidance. Starting with Slide 12, we generated $818
million of operating cash flow in the fourth quarter. The decrease versus the prior year was
primarily owing to unfavorable net working capital with investments to build semiconductor
inventory. In some cases, this inventory build has been customer-required or even funded andhas yielded dividends with our ability to mitigate supply chain constraints that have emerged in
the industry.
In addition, as we get closer to the spin, we incurred approximately $80 million of separation
costs in Q4, bringing the year-to-date total to approximately $180 million. Nevertheless, our full-
year operating cash flow remained robust at well north of $2 billion, which led to an elevated year
end cash balance of $1.9 billion.
Our capital allocation efforts in 2025 were twofold. First, retiring $1 billion in debt to reduce our
leverage following the accelerated share repurchase program. And in Q4 specifically, we retired
approximately $150 million in debt through open-market repurchases.
And second, deploying $400 million towards share repurchases in the third and fourth quarters.
This includes repurchasing 3.9 million shares in Q4, deploying approximately $300 million.
As a reminder, since Q3 of 2024, with the accelerated share repurchase program, we have
deployed approximately $3.5 billion towards share repurchases, reducing our share count by
20%. And we remain committed to returning excess cash to our shareholders.
Let's turn now to our 2026 financial outlook. Our full-year 2026 financial guidance includes a view
on Total Aptiv, which we believe is important for continuity and comparison, as well as views on
each of New Aptiv and Versigent on a pro-forma basis to provide visibility into our future state
following the spin expected to be effective on April 1.
Starting with New Aptiv, we forecast revenue in the range of $12.8 billion to $13.2 billion, up 4% at
the midpoint, reflecting the benefit of new program launches, the abatement of certain
headwinds that weighed on 2025 revenue growth, as well as improved end market and product
mix.
EBITDA and EBITDA margin are expected to be $2.42 billion and 18.6% at the midpoint. This
includes approximately $50 million in stranded costs for the full-year and $35 million of
engineering and go-to-market investments we are making across our businesses as we continue
to grow our non-auto revenues.
Excluding stranded costs, New Aptiv pro-forma margin would be up 30 basis points year-over-
year, reflecting the benefit of volume flow-through and performance improvements, primarily in
manufacturing and material.
EBITDA margin will also reflect continued improvement in our business mix, specifically faster
growth in software and services. Adjusted earnings per share is estimated to be in the range of
$5.70 to $6.10, which assumes an effective tax rate of 18.5%.
Please note that our New Aptiv EPS guidance does not incorporate the benefit of returning
capital to shareholders through repurchases. However, it does incorporate the expectation that
we will pay down approximately $1.9 billion in debt in 2026, funded principally from the Versigent
spin dividend proceeds of approximately $1.6 billion, with the remainder funded with cash on
hand.
Subsequent to this, both New Aptiv and Versigent gross leverage is expected to be in the range
of 2 to 2.5 times, in line with what we outlined at Investor Day. Free cash flow, measured as
operating cash flow less capital expenditures, is estimated to be $750 million at the midpoint.
This is net of approximately $250 million in separation costs associated with the EDS spin to be
settled in 2026, and a further $200 million investment in semiconductor inventory build.As we mentioned at the beginning of last year, we have worked diligently to strengthen the
resiliency of our supply chain and invested to build semiconductor inventory coverage to
approximately 12 weeks. This has positioned us well, given the heightened concerns over an
industry-wide DRAM shortage, and we see minimal impact to us from a supply perspective in
2026.
While we are confident of our ability to build inventory and work on long-term solutions with our
customers and suppliers, we do expect to see higher input costs related to semiconductors,
which we will pass on to our customers.
Moving on to Versigent. We forecast revenue in the range of $9.1 billion to $9.4 billion, an increase
of 2% at the midpoint versus a backdrop of vehicle production down 1% in 2026. We expect
EBITDA and EBITDA margin of approximately $990 million and 10.7% at the midpoint.
On a year-over-year basis, margin expansion is expected to be driven by flow-through on volume
and manufacturing and material performance improvements, offsetting headwinds from labor
economics, FX, and commodities. And lastly, free cash flow is expected to be $250 million at the
midpoint, reflecting continued investments in footprint rotation and manufacturing automation
that we discussed at Investor Day.
Moving now to our first quarter guidance and expected cadence through the course of 2026. As
a reminder, given the expected effective spin date of April 1, our first quarter results will be
reported as Total Aptiv. We expect first quarter revenue for Total Aptiv of $5.05 billion at the
midpoint, reflecting adjusted growth of approximately 1% with New Aptiv slightly above this range
and EDS slightly below.
Q1 revenue growth is below the full-year range, primarily owing to the cadence of expected
global vehicle production in 2026. IHS forecast vehicle production to be down 4% in Q1, which
equates to down 2% on an Aptiv weighted market basis.
We expect adjusted EBITDA and EBITDA margin of $740 million and 14.7% at the midpoint. This
includes a 120 basis point headwind associated with FX and commodities and earnings per share
of $1.65 at the midpoint, and this reflects an effective tax rate of 20.5%.
For Total Aptiv, the increase in the effective tax-rate from 17.2% to 20.5% is attributable to the
implementation of the Pillar Two global minimum tax. Though the cash tax rate is expected to be
lower than the ETR by approximately 300 basis points.
Finally, as I close, I'd like to reiterate that our resilient business model and relentless focus on
optimizing performance, we remain confident in our ability to drive strong execution and financial
results, as well as enhance shareholder value.
And with that, I'd now like to hand the call to Joe Liotine for his thoughts on Versigent.
`Joseph T. Liotine, Executive Vice President and President, Electrical Distribution Systems `
Thanks, Varun. It's great to speak with all of you again. Since we last spoke, we've continued to
work diligently to ensure a smooth transition ahead of our first day of trading as an independent
company on April 1st.
As Kevin shared, EDS had a very good year in 2025. We posted solid revenue growth and
expanded our EBITDA margins through continued progress on our operational initiatives, and
drove another year of strong bookings, laying the foundation for future growth.We have momentum heading into 2026. And as an independent company with a strong financial
profile, we're confident in our ability to deliver value for shareholders. And I look forward to
meeting with many of you in the coming months.
I'll now hand it back to Kevin and Varun to complete the call.
`Kevin P. Clark, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Joe. As I wrap up today's call, I want to provide some additional context on 2025 and our
outlook for 2026. Let me start by level-setting on where we've been.
During 2025, we continue to enhance the resiliency of our business model with the introduction
of a broad range of market-relevant products and solutions, the continued increase in bookings
with target customers across regions and end-markets. Excuse me. And the ongoing
enhancement of our supply chain and manufacturing capabilities.
During the year, we also illustrated our ability to execute in a dynamic environment. We navigated
changes in geopolitical trends and global trade policies as well as customer-specific challenges
and delivered earnings growth in the face of FX and commodity headwinds that were significantly
larger than we had initially anticipated.
As we look ahead to 2026, we expect the macro environment to continue to remain dynamic. But
with the strength of our operating model, we're confident that we're well-positioned to execute
our strategy.
We're poised to capture commercial opportunities that are higher growth and higher margin
across multiple end markets, and we'll continue to invest in our product portfolio and go-to-
market capabilities to execute on these opportunities, while also continue to further optimize our
cost structure and eliminate the stranded costs associated with the spin.
2026 is a very exciting year for both Aptiv and for Versigent, as we unlock value through
formation of two independent,optimally positioned public companies. Our team remains
relentlessly focused on navigating the challenges and opportunities ahead, flawlessly serving our
customers and delivering strong financial results that enhance shareholder value.
Operator, let's now open the line for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions). And we'll go first to `Dan Levy, Analyst, Barclays with Barclays.
Q - `Dan Levy, Analyst, Barclays `
Hi, good morning. Thanks for taking the questions. I wanted to start first with a question on your
memory exposure because I think that's top of mind for a lot of folks. You said that this wouldn't
really be an issue into 2027. Maybe you could just give us a little more insight into what
percentage of your COGS memory is of RemainCo? And when the -- when your contracts reset
in 2027, what magnitude of impact this could be? And what is the line of sight to fully recovering
all of those higher costs?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `So, it's Kevin. Let me start with just sizing it. So to put it in perspective, memory -- the purchase
value is roughly $175 million as we sit here, 2026. And the majority of that is DRAM 3 and DRAM 4.
So those are the categories. Our pricing or price increases for us in calendar 2026 are low
double-digits, and that's the result of the supply chain management strategy that we've been
implementing over the last couple of years that included higher inventory levels as well as longer-
term contracts with our semiconductor suppliers.
As we head into 2027 or look at 2027, those negotiations actually started months ago. So we're
well ahead of kind of the current outlook for overall price increases, and we're confident that we'll
be able to come in at a level -- won't be consistent with 2026, it will be -- will be higher, but a
level that is certainly below the 100% to 120% price increases that you're hearing thrown around,
today, as it relates to whatever that price increase ends up being, we've been successful in the
past, obviously, pushing through price increases or cost increases associated with various aspects
-- our various inputs, including semiconductors. I think this is an area we've already had
conversations with all of our OEM customers that they understand the situation. And not that we
won't have to have some difficult conversations, but we're highly confident we'll be able to push
those cost increases through to our OEM customers.
Q - `Dan Levy, Analyst, Barclays `
Thank you. And just a reminder, you recovered 100% of your semi-inflation from the '21 chip
crisis?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, a little less than 100%, but pretty close.
Q - `Dan Levy, Analyst, Barclays `
Great. Thank you. As a follow-up, wanted to ask about the guide for New Aptiv into 2026. You're
guiding to an adjusted growth of 4%. It is at the low end of the range of the 4% to 7% that you
talked about at Investor Day. Maybe you could just give us a sense of what's a little lighter in '26
versus what accelerates into the out years?
A - `Varun Laroyia, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Hey, Dan, good morning. It's `Varun Laroyia, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Listen, with regards to RemainCo guide, if you go
back to Investor Day, the 4 to 7 points growth that we had talked about through 2028, that
remains intact, right? It really starts with the RemainCo still has about three-quarters of its
business in the auto industry. And as you think about where expectations are for global vehicle
production in 2026. And then in '27, '28, which it gets back to some level of growth, that's kind of
the starting point, number one.
And then, the second point I'd like to highlight is with regards to our non-auto revenues, those
are growing strongly on a full-year basis 2025, non-auto grew about 8 points. And in the fourth
quarter, our other industrial revenue growth grew faster than our commercial vehicle revenue
grew for New Aptiv. So that continues to grow and grow well. But again, it's about a quarter of the
business. So, in the out years, with the investments we're making in both product but also in go-
to-market, we expect that business to come through strongly.
And finally, our software and services business continues to grow at mid-teens, which we are
pleased with.A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
If I -- Dan, if I could just augment with what Varun just talked about. It really -- it comes down to
vehicle production and assumption. If you look at where we were, and IHS was for the 2026
calendar year back in October and November. And then on the average weighted market basis,
our outlook was, vehicle production up 1%. As we sit here today, our outlook and where IHS
actually sits is actually for -- on a comparable basis for vehicle production to actually be down 1%.
So it's that swinging global vehicle production and the weighting by market.
Q - `Dan Levy, Analyst, Barclays `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
We will move next to `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Wolfe Research with Wolfe Research.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Great. Thank you so much.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
Hi, Emmanuel.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Good morning. Continuing on this -- the outlook for the New Aptiv, I was wondering if you could
just frame for us some of the puts and takes in the EBITDA outlook for 2026. Margins basically
stable at midpoint, but obviously pretty decent organic growth, and then you have some puts and
takes in terms of one time cost, inflation, and some of the offsets. So, if you could just give us a
sense of what that walk looks like landing you around stable margins?
A - `Varun Laroyia, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, Emmanuel, it's `Varun Laroyia, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer out here. Listen, as we think about New Aptiv '26 versus '25.
Here are some kind of key elements just to highlight for you. The first is just in terms of revenue
growth, the volume that comes through associated with that, and obviously the EBITDA, and that
will kind of pick up just over a point, okay.
Commodities are expected to be in negative in 2026 for RemainCo. Again, it's a far smaller
number associated with RemainCo versus Versigent. So about 50 bps is what we currently
forecast with regards to EBITDA margin hit associated with that. We have our usual net price
downs. So think about the 1 to 1.5 points of what we typically have with net price downs. So that
will be another -- that will be a negative associated with that.
And then we've talked about investments to grow our non-auto side of the business. This
includes go-to-market and also engineering. But again -- and stranded cost, as I mentioned also,
which is about 40 basis points or about $50 million. Offsetting this are other performance items,
such as manufacturing, material, and also labor economics that we see from a RemainCo
perspective that will kind of help offset some of those pieces. So, net-net, as you think about it
outside excluding stranded costs, we do expect on a pro-forma basis, New Aptiv margins moving
up on a year-over-year basis.Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
That's super helpful. And then, as a follow-up, would you be able to provide a similar framework
for SpinCo?
A - `Varun Laroyia, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, most certainly. Listen, from a SpinCo perspective, overall '26 versus '25 margins are up. And
if you were to take them at a midpoint basis on a pro-forma basis, up about 40 basis points,
right? And it really starts with the volume associated with the growth that's anticipated. So
obviously, Versigent EDS had a terrific 2025, finished the year strong, tremendous momentum in
the business, great bookings coming through.
And so, from a growth perspective, roughly about -- the volume growth that comes through and
the volume flow-through that comes through is a positive. On the flip side of it, as I mentioned,
commodities are expected to be in negative, roughly about 50 basis points. Net price downs
about 60 basis points. And then finally, some standalone costs, which are roughly about $15
million, that we talked about at Investor Day.
And again, offsetting these elements are performance items such as manufacturing material,
which will add back the better part of about 130 basis points of positive EBITDA. And that kind of
are the key elements to think through from a bridge perspective '25 to '26.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Great, thank you.
Operator
We'll go next to `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, TD Cowen with TD Cowen.
Q - `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, TD Cowen `
Great. Thank you. Good morning, everybody. Just a follow-up on the last question. I'm curious
how you're thinking about just the FX commodity impact on New Aptiv, kind of beyond 2026? I
think the targets for 2028 assume a minimal impact in the 200 bps of EBITDA margin expansion.
Do you think that's kind of recoverable beyond this year, or how should we think about the kind of
longer-term impact?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, definitely. I mean, we're still confident in our ability to expand margins at RemainCo by 200
basis points and obviously to do the same in the Versigent business. 2026, as it relates to
RemainCo, obviously, there's the impact of stranded cost that Varun talked about. There is some
incremental investment in engineering go-to-market capabilities that he walked through. Those
are more 2026-related than they are 2027 and 2028.
Stranded costs, obviously, will come out of the system in 2027 and be gone by 2028. There's a
bit more that comes out in 2027 than in 2026 as you -- as we sit here today. So, we remain very
confident in our ability to expand margins by 200 basis points.
Q - `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, TD Cowen `Terrific. Very helpful, Kevin. And then, as a quick follow-up, hoping you could give us a little bit of a
high-level view of how you see your revenue performing regionally this year. You've had very
strong outperformance in North America. You mentioned China also improved sequentially.
Hoping to get a little bit more color as to kind of how you see regional revenue progress this
year? Thank you.
A - `Varun Laroyia, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Itay, it's `Varun Laroyia, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer here. Great question. And really what I'd point you towards is, is how
we performed in 2025. If you think about North America, certainly global vehicle -- well, vehicle
production versus what our initial estimates were and where it finally ended up, certainly provided
a tailwind for North America.
But I think, importantly, as you think about our non-auto revenue growth, software and services
predominantly in North America. So from that perspective, I would probably share with you that
North America will continue to lead the way. And then from a European perspective, based on
where GDP is expected to be out there, roughly flat to slightly down. And then from a China
perspective, our overall mix continues to improve with the China local OEMs, number one.
The second piece I kind of highlight about AsiaPac and China in particular is we will end up lapping
the couple of programs in intelligence systems that we had called out in the second-quarter.
Those will lap. And so we will expect to see a better second-half number come through from
China. And finally, I'd say is, and Kevin referenced this in his prepared comments, the growth that
we are seeing with the Japanese OEMs, the Korean OEMs, and also in India, that again is strong
coming through. And so, as you think about '26, North America, APAC, and then I'd say Europe
will be flat to slightly down.
Q - `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, TD Cowen `
That's very helpful. Thanks so much.
Operator
We will go next to `Mark Delaney, Analyst, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs.
Q - `Mark Delaney, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Good morning, and thanks very much for taking the question. You said that the S&P outlook for
the production cadence this year is being consistent with your view that 1Q growth is slower and
then growth picks up beyond the first-quarter. Can you speak more to what you're seeing with
OEM schedules and how much visibility Aptiv has into that pickup starting in 2Q?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, it's Kevin. I'll start, and Varun will provide you with more details. Obviously, as you look at
the first quarter, at least four to six weeks out, we're on customer schedules. Now we have
forecasts from most of our OEMs out for the full year. And as we sit here today, the schedule
support a relatively weak year-over-year market in the first quarter, right? So vehicle production
being down roughly 4%.
We're seeing weakness -- or we see weakness in China in line with what IHS is forecasting at this
point in time. Beyond that, the forecast we see from our customers we see continued
strengthening into Q2, Q3, Q4. Those aren't schedules that are locked in at this point in time, but
as the quarter continues to evolve, we'll get increasing visibility, and to the extent we're outcommunicating in the open market, we'll share updates to investors in terms of what we're
seeing from a market outlook standpoint. But right now, we would say it very closely mirrors
exactly what we're forecasting from a 2026 vehicle production standpoint.
Q - `Mark Delaney, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thanks for that, Kevin. My other question is on the bookings, and you had spoken last quarter
about the potential for some timing to shift into '26, which came through. But maybe just talk a bit
more on the broader bookings environment in terms of some of the programs that did shift,
anything in common that led to that? Is it more regionally driven or any commonality by
powertrain type that may be behind some of that shifting? And when you look at your win rates,
to what extent is that tracking in line with your expectations and supportive of that longer-term
growth that you laid out at the Investor Day? Thanks.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, win rates continue to be strong. The shifting we saw in the fourth quarter related to
programs in North America and Europe, we're well-positioned. We're confident that those are
programs that will be awarded. It's just a matter of timing.
I think when you're in markets like we've been over the last year or so, with the dynamics of
trade, with tariffs, with -- for some products shortages, or tightness for some OEM customers, if
they're having specific, unique supply chain issues, the focus of the procurement organization
tends to shift to managing those situations versus awarding business. But ultimately, if they don't
want to impact SOPs, business needs to be awarded so that engineering organizations can start
working on those programs.
Q - `Mark Delaney, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you.
Operator
We'll go next to `Joe Spak, Analyst, UBS with UBS.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
Hi, Joe.
Operator
And sir, your line is open. You may want to check your mute button.
Q - `Joe Spak, Analyst, UBS `
Sorry about that. Good morning, everyone. Just going back to the '26 outlook, and Varun, I
appreciate all the puts and takes. I just want to maybe dive in on a couple more things, specifically
on the top line, like for Versigent, like how much is copper helping the top line in that growth
number, maybe FX for each company as well?
And then, we also saw some big numbers put out by some automakers in terms of cash they're
going to give to suppliers for canceled programs or lower volumes. Is any of that baked into your
outlook? And if not, is that something you -- are those conversations you're having and
something you think you could expect to receive over the course of the year?A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
So let me start with the last, and then Varun can walk you through your first few questions. Listen,
as it relates to commercial recoveries, that's an activity and dialogue that quite frankly is going on
with customers all the time as it relates to various, whether they're distinct or unique programs
that are canceled or other items.
As it relates to some of the larger decisions, principally in North America, as it relates to EV
programs. Those are discussions that are underway now, at this point in time. Certainly, the
resolution of those is factored into our 2026 outlook. I wouldn't consider it upside to our overall
operating performance. They still need to be negotiated and finalized. I think some of the larger
programs with some of the OEMs that we deal with, especially in North America, I would say
there's strong agreement that the situation needs to be resolved, and they need to support the
supply base. So I don't think it's a matter of negotiating those recoveries. It tends to be how
much.
So yes, they're in our outlook at a level that we have high confidence in. But Joe, there's -- the
nature of this business is there's an amount of that activity that goes on year in and year out, and
it could be things like labor economics, program cancellation, program delays, commodity pricing,
things like that, that maybe there is a contractual mechanism to deal with -- that need to be dealt
with separately.
A - `Varun Laroyia, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
And let me pick up the first part of your question, Joe. With regards to commodities and
essentially from our perspective for Versigent, it's primarily copper. We expect copper -- as of
now, we budgeted that at $5.50 a pound versus a $4.51 number in actuals 2025, that leads to
close to $200 million from a top line revenue perspective. Though I do want to share with you
and clarify, when we talk about a 2% growth at the midpoint for Versigent, that is adjusted growth.
So that excludes the impact of any FX or commodities.
Q - `Joe Spak, Analyst, UBS `
Perfect.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
And the other thing, just from a mechanism standpoint, the way that works, Joe is copper's index,
so roughly 70% of our overall activity where we sell copper and principally in the EDS business, it's
indexed. That price increase is passed on to the customer, typically three, sometimes it's six
months, but more often than not, roughly on a three-month sort of delay. So that's how it
effectively plays out from a reimbursement standpoint, pricing standpoint.
Q - `Joe Spak, Analyst, UBS `
Okay. Maybe just one more. I know this sort of changed over the years, but it's something that's
come into more focus of late with investors is the peso, because I know you used to hedge a lot
of that, and I think you started to let more of it flow. Can you just remind us, sort of, what the
current status of that is, and maybe the sensitivity to the peso as well? And labor.
A - `Joseph T. Liotine, Executive Vice President and President, Electrical Distribution Systems `
Yeah. This is Joe. Joe, thanks for raising that. Again, listen, as we think about FX, with thethat's where the peso hurts. As that -- if you're going to go back to a year ago, when we gave
guidance for 2025, the peso was just shy of MXN21 to the US dollar. I think we had flashed
MXN20.75. And if you see where it's currently tracking at sub MXN18, that certainly causes a ton
of OI impact.
Having said that, obviously, we do have hedges in place. And then for 2026, in particular, we
essentially hedged about 95% below MXN18, okay. And so that certainly lessens the impact up to
a certain point. But clearly, in 2025, from the given the volatility from the start of the year to
where it ended up, it certainly was a big driver of the impact that we certainly called out and were
transparent in terms of what that was.
Q - `Joe Spak, Analyst, UBS `
Yeah. Okay. Thanks so much for the color.
Operator
(Operator Instructions). We will move next to `Colin Langan, Analyst, Wells Fargo with Wells Fargo.
Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Great. Thanks for taking my questions. I think there was some concern heading into guidance
about Versigent. I don't know if I'm saying that right. Being down given EVs, particularly in North
America, are expected to be down a lot. I mean, what are you assuming in terms of EV volumes?
And then, so what is actually keeping that growth positive if EV is sort of underlying headwind
within there?
A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Our outlook for EV growth as a company is roughly 15% year-on-year. The majority of that
growth is driven in China, and it's a mix of BEV and slightly faster growth, right, in plug-in hybrids
and hybrids. So very low growth here in North America, moderate growth in Europe, and then
stronger growth in Asia-Pacific, principally China. So I think we're roughly -- Colin, I think we're
roughly 5 or 6 points from a growth rate assumption standpoint below where IHS sits today.
Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Well, okay, great. And then Intelligent Systems margins were surprisingly weak in Q4, particularly
since normally that's a quarter where you get a lot of engineering recoveries. Any color on the
weakness? And I guess more importantly, how should we think about gross margins into '26 as
they kind of bounce back or...
A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. On a full-year basis, margins in Intelligent Systems were up 30 basis points if you exclude
foreign exchange. So, strong year-over-year growth. In the quarter, I think we had three impacts.
Varun talked about foreign exchange. So that we were impacted from a foreign exchange
standpoint, very significantly. I think it's roughly 170 basis points that we show on our chart.
And then there are two aspects from a timing standpoint. One, engineering credits actually were
not as heavily weighted in the fourth quarter. I think in our Q3 earnings call, we made some
commentary with respect to timing of engineering credits.And then, second thing, just -- Varun mentioned, we've accelerated the investment in some
engineering areas in and around technologies and solutions, or bringing technologies and
solutions into the robotics market. So we have incremental investment in the fourth quarter that
will increase, and that will continue into the first quarter of this year and through the balance of
2026. So those are the three drivers of the year-over-year margin degradation for the Intelligent
Systems.
Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
And I guess FX and the -- into Q1, the engineering investment continue. So those would be
incremental headwinds as we think about? That's the second question.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, there's some headwind for FX and commodities, much lower based on where we sit today
than what we had in the fourth quarter. And then the engineering investment will continue.
Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Got it. All right, thanks for taking my questions.
Operator
We'll go next to `James Picariello, Analyst, BNP Paribas, BNP Paribas.
Q - `James Picariello, Analyst, BNP Paribas `
Hi, everybody. I just wanted to clarify first on the stranded costs that's embedded in the pro-
forma -- in the pro-forma outlook, because adding the EBITDA midpoints of New Aptiv and EDS,
right, there's like a $75 million difference. Does that account for both the RemainCo's $70 million
in stranded costs or based on the Analyst Day, as well as the stranded costs that EDS will have as
a separate entity? Thanks.
A - `Varun Laroyia, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. James, it's `Varun Laroyia, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Yes. We called out about $70 million in stranded costs at Investor
Day. What we -- obviously, we've made progress both from a headcount and non-headcount
actions. So those have been layered in. Some of those actions have already begun. But $50
million impact in the first full-year on a pro-forma basis for New Aptiv, that's the 50, small, I call it,
public company setup costs for Versigent, roughly about $15 million.
And then the other piece, as we called out, were some of the investments from a go-to-market
perspective and product perspective that we're making in RemainCo across both Intelligent
Systems and Engineered Components. Those are kind of the key elements to think about from
that perspective.
Q - `James Picariello, Analyst, BNP Paribas `
Perfect. That's very clear. And then my follow-up is on Wind River and its potential with respect to
robotics, and just how you foresee that, the future end-market demand tied to AI and robotics,
humanoid robotics. Does Wind River have a TAM there and a place to play? Thanks.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `Yeah. So, Wind River, I would say, is from a software standpoint, the tip of the spear. So they
serve multiple markets, including the robotics markets today, with Linux solutions, with RTOS
solutions, and other software products. So it's a TAM that we estimate to be about $6 billion.
When you look at the -- comparable to our content per vehicle that we use for the automotive
sector, it's roughly $4,000 to $5,000 of content.
On a robot, when we look at sensor solutions, when we look at -- so that could be vision or
camera as well as radar. When we look at the software tech stack, and then when we look at the
interconnect and the cable or wire harness solutions. So our -- we view it as a very attractive
market. The partnerships that we've announced to date, we're making meaningful progress with
-- we think during the first-quarter, we'll have more commercial relationships or partnerships that -
- partnerships that we'll be announcing that will show the traction that we have in place. And that's
what quite frankly gives us the confidence to increase the investment targeted that specific
market, just given the opportunity.
Q - `James Picariello, Analyst, BNP Paribas `
Thank you.
Operator
And that was our final question. That will conclude today's question-and-answer session. I will now
turn the call back over to Mr. Kevin Clark for any additional or closing remarks.
A - `Kevin P. Clark, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, everyone, for joining us today. We really appreciate your time, and we look forward to
speaking with you and meeting with you over the coming months. Have a nice day.
Operator
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, that will conclude today's call. We thank you for your
participation. You may disconnect at this time.