Q4 2018 Earnings Call

Operator
Good afternoon. My name is Lance and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I'd
like to welcome everyone to the KLA-Tencor Corporation Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2018
Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. Thank you.
Mr. `Ed Lockwood, Senior Director-Investor Relations of KLA-Tencor Investor Relations, you may begin your conference.
`Ed Lockwood, Senior Director-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Lance. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to our conference call. Joining me on
our call today are Rick Wallace, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Bren Higgins, our
Chief Financial Officer. We're here today to discuss quarterly results for the period ended June
30, 2018. We released these results this afternoon at 1:15 Pacific Time. If you haven't seen the
release, you can find it on our website.
Today's discussion of our financial results will be presented on a non-GAAP financial basis unless
otherwise specified. A detailed reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP results can be found in
today's earnings press release and in the investor presentation on KLA-Tencor's Investor
Relations website. There you'll also find a calendar of future investor events, presentations and
conferences, as well as links to KLA-Tencor's SEC filings, including our Annual Report on Form 10-
K for the year ended June 30, 2017.
In those filings, you'll also find descriptions of risk factors that could impact our future results. As
you know, our future results are subject to risks. Any forward-looking statements, including those
we make on the call today, are subject to those risks, and KLA-Tencor cannot guarantee thoseforward-looking statements will come true. Our actual results may differ significantly from those
projected in our forward-looking statements.
With that, I'll turn the call over to Rick.
`Richard P. Wallace, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, Ed. We're very pleased to report another strong quarter for KLA-Tencor with shipments
revenue and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share each finishing at the upper end of guidance.
KLA-Tencor delivered the second highest quarterly booking results in our history in the June
quarter, while setting all-time records in quarterly shipments, revenue, GAAP and non-GAAP
diluted earnings per share.
I'm also pleased to report that we ended the June quarter with a positive book-to-bill and with
record total backlog of almost $2 billion. Also we are pleased to note our continued progress on
our timeline for closing the Orbotech acquisition in the fourth quarter of this calendar year.
On July 12, the Orbotech shareholders approved the merger and to-date we have received all
the necessary regulatory approvals with the exception of Korea and China, which we expect to
obtain in due course.
The record results and strong momentum KLA-Tencor is delivering today demonstrates the value
of our market leadership and the critical nature of process control. We also highlight our market
diversification and the benefits of our exposure to growth markets such as EUV lithography, the
early ramp of 7 nanometer devices in foundry, growth in the bare wafer market to address
capacity growth in memory and China to highlight a few.
The overall WFE industry environment continues to perform at a high level and we are excited
about the prospects for continued strength in industry demand as we begin the second half of
2018 and look ahead to 2019.
Our view is for WFE levels to grow in the mid-single-digit range in 2018 aligned with the current
consensus growth forecast for the year. Against this industry backdrop, our view for KLA-Tencor
revenue growth is in the low double digits for the calendar year.
Now let's discuss some of the unique dynamics that are fueling our market leadership and
diversified growth. First, we are experiencing near record levels of demand in mask inspection
and registration, fueled by customer's investments in EUV lithography and by continued strength
in multi-patterning optical lithography supporting 10 and 7-nanometer design tape-outs. KLA-
Tencor is working with each of our major customers to accelerate EUV mask development and
yield learning, providing a complete portfolio of advanced mask inspection solutions.
EUV promises to be a positive catalyst for future growth for process control, as it continues to
enable linear scaling and presents market opportunities that we believe KLA-Tencor is uniquely
positioned to address as the market leader in mask and wafer inspection, as well as in films, CD
and overlay metrology.
Another example is in how over the past several quarters we've seen exceptional growth in
demand for bare wafer inspection and metrology solutions, driven by the expansion of bare
wafer supply associated with the strong memory market as well as more stringent cleanliness
and flatness requirements for bare wafers. In addition, IC memory and logic customers are also
experienced – increased their investment in process tool qualification to limit yield excursions and
to meet aggressive yield and capacity ramp goals.A third example of how KLA-Tencor is benefiting from our market diversification and technology
leadership is seen in our strong results in China. Investment in China is the next major market
inflection at WFE, and as the market leader in process control, KLA-Tencor is helping to enable
development and growth of the China semiconductor industry. Our customers in China are
investing with us at a high level to accelerate early process development and yield learning.
With our broad portfolio of advanced process control solutions and our demonstrated ability to
meet aggressive ramp schedules, KLA-Tencor's business in China is operating at a high level and
we expect it to remain strong for the foreseeable future. And finally, KLA-Tencor service business
continues to be a highlight.
Service is approaching $1 billion in annual revenue today and is expected to continue to deliver
consistent, high single digit annual revenue growth over the next several years. I'll note that
greater than 75% of service revenue is from service contracts to enable needed uptime of our
systems, demonstrating the value of the insight and technology, these systems provide to enable
customer success. Long term growth in services is tied to growth in the installed base as well as
from expanding investment in trailing edge fabs, which are running at full utilization and creating
new opportunities for product enhancements and upgrades.
To sum up today's results before I turn the call over to Bren, June was another record setting
quarter for KLA-Tencor, demonstrating the company's strong execution and fast growing industry
environment. Given our market diversification and the record levels of demand we are
experiencing in the marketplace, 2018 is shaping up to be an outstanding year for KLA-Tencor.
And we are encouraged by the early signs of continuing momentum we are seeing for 2019.
I'll now turn the call over to Bren for his comments. Bren?
`Bren D. Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Rick, and good afternoon everyone. As Rick highlighted in his opening remarks, the June
quarter delivered excellent financial results for the company. Shipments, revenue, GAAP and non-
GAAP diluted earnings per share all came in at the upper end of the range of guidance in the
quarter with revenue, shipments and earnings per share once again achieving record levels.
These results were driven by strong demand across our major product markets as well as a solid
execution of our strategic objectives. Revenue was $1.070 billion in the June quarter, GAAP and
non-GAAP diluted earnings per share were both $2.22.
In our press release, you'll find a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP diluted earnings per share.
As a reminder, unless I explicitly refer to GAAP results, my commentary will be solely focused on
the non-GAAP results, which exclude the adjustments covered in the press release.
Now turning to highlights of the June demand environment in terms of shipments. Total
shipments were $1.07 billion, about $20 million above the midpoint of guidance and finishing at
the top end of the guided range for the quarter driven by strength in memory.
Looking forward, we are modeling September quarter shipments to be down almost 10% at the
midpoint and be in a range of $935 million to $1.015 billion. Our current expectation is for
shipment growth in the second half of calendar 2018 to be flat to up low-single-digits compared
with the first half with sequential quarterly growth resuming in the December quarter. While
second half shipments will be stronger than the first half, this half-to-half growth expectation is
modestly lower than our expectations from three months ago, given the widely reported
memory push-outs and slowing logic investment.Our shipment mix in the second half features continued strong customer pull from our memory
customers, including those in China, ramping their wafer products and an expected pickup in
foundry logic shipments in the second half of the year. Memory was 69% of shipments and in line
with our original forecast for the quarter. DRAM accounted for 28% of total system shipments in
the period.
For September, we expect memory shipments to be approximately 59% of the total. Foundry
was 22% of shipments in the June quarter and foundry is forecasted to be about 36% of
shipments in Q3 driven by increases in EUV investment and 7-nanometer design starts. Logic was
9% of shipments and our current outlook is for logic to be approximately 5% of total system
shipments this quarter.
In terms of the approximate distribution of shipments by product group, wafer inspection was
47% of shipments, patterning was 29%. Patterning includes shipments for our metrology
businesses and for reticle inspection. Service was 21%, and non-semi was approximately 3%.
Revenue was a record $1.070 billion in June, finishing at the upper end of the range of guidance.
We expect September revenue to be flat at the midpoint and be in the range of $1.030 billion to
$1.110 billion for the quarter.
Revenue in the second half of calendar 2018 is expected to grow in the mid-single-digits
compared with the first half, aligned with our current outlook for revenue growth in the low-
double-digits in the calendar year.
Gross margins were 64.8% at the upper end of guidance for the quarter. The factors driving our
strong gross margin performance in June were consistent with recent margin trends, with the
upside largely driven by product mix.
Looking forward to September, we expect gross margins to again be in the range of 64% to 65%
as improving service margins offset slightly weaker product system mix. Total operating expenses
were $265 million in June and operating margin was 40%. We continue to see many opportunities
for top-line growth in our core business and plan to maintain our investment posture with new
programs, including those supporting e-beam, EUV and advanced memory applications, to name
three important examples.
For the September quarter, we expect operating expenses to be approximately $270 million, with
variability around this operating expense level driven principally by the timing of non-head count
engineering program development costs.
For the full year in calendar 2018, we expect operating margins to be in the 39% range, solidly
above the targeted 38% plus margin level in our published business model for these revenue
levels and demonstrating KLA-Tencor's leading market position and business execution.
Free cash flow margin is currently forecasted to be in the upper 20th percentile in 2018, ranking
KLA-Tencor among the top tier companies in our industry. The effective tax rate was 15% in the
quarter, in line with our guidance and our long-term tax planning rate. Finally, net income for the
June quarter was a record $348 million and we had 156.8 million fully diluted shares outstanding.
Turning briefly to highlights of the June quarter balance sheet and cash flow statement. Cash and
investments ended the quarter at almost $2.9 billion. Cash from operations was strong at $374
million and free cash flow was $351 million. In the quarter, we retired $225 million of outstanding
debt on our revolving credit facility, paid an aggregate of $117 million in regular quarterly dividendsand dividend equivalents for fully vested restricted stock units and repurchased $38 million of
common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program.
At the end of the June quarter, we had just under $1 billion authorized under our share
repurchase program. Legal restrictions related to the timing of shareholder approval of the
Orbotech transaction limited our repurchase activity in Q2, but we plan to resume repurchases in
the September quarter targeting quarterly repurchase volumes consistent with our previously
articulated approach and expect a 12- to 18-month timeframe subject to market conditions. We
have an additional $1 billion share repurchase authorized upon completion of the Orbotech
acquisition.
Finally, I'll note that we will adopt the new revenue recognition standard ASC 606 starting in the
September quarter to coincide with the start of our 2019 fiscal year. We're adopting ASC 606
using the modified retrospective method in which we will report financial results prospectively
under the new standard, but will not restate historical results.
Also throughout FY 2019, which ends on June 30, 2019, we will provide a quarterly reconciliation
of reported revenue as well as what revenue would have been under the old reporting standard
in order to help investors quantify the impact of differences in revenue recognition under the old
and new standards. We do not foresee any impact to cash flows or business operations from the
adoption of ASC 606.
However, adoption of ASC 606 will impact reported revenue. Here is a summary in two primary
changes revenue recognition resulting from the adoption of ASC 606. First, instead of accruing
the cost of one year warranties for systems that we sell to our customers, we will allocate
revenue to the warranty element of each transaction and recognize the revenue over the
warranty period since we will provide preventative maintenance as well as repair services during
the warranty period in a manner consistent with our normal service contracts.
Second, we will continue to recognize systems revenue at the point of time where we have
satisfied our performance obligations and transferred control of the product to a customer. The
determination of satisfaction of performance obligations is based on several factors including the
transfer of title, physical possession of the tool by the customer, customer acceptance of the
product and whether customer acceptance is considered a formality based on history of
acceptance of similar products.
We expect that the new standard will generally allow for earlier timing of revenue recognition and
circumstances where we deem as (15:39) sufficient performance indicators have been satisfied to
conclude that control has been transferred to the customer.
We are still assessing the overall impact to revenue from adoption of the new standard. As I
mentioned, a detailed reconciliation of the differences in revenue recognition between the old
and new standards will be provided on a quarterly basis, beginning with the reporting of the
results of the September quarter.
Going forward, quarterly guidance including the guidance for the September quarter will only be
provided based on the new rules. We will report actual revenue under both sets of rules for every
quarter of fiscal 2019 and our Form 10-Q. Although there are future factors in terms of shipment
timing and customer acceptance of products including net (16:36) results under both standards,
based on current shipment and revenue forecast, we expect the difference in reported revenue
under the new standard to be favorable in calendar 2018 and in the range of 1% plus or minus 50
basis points higher when compared with the old standard.In conclusion, the results demonstrated by KLA-Tencor in the June quarter reflect the company's
technology leadership, the critical nature of process control on our customers' growth strategies
and the value of our industry leading business model. The semiconductor and semi-equipment
industry environment today is strong, healthy and performing at a high level, with multiple paths
of growth fueled by demand for exciting new applications such as artificial intelligence, big data,
increasing semiconductor automotive content and the Internet of Things layered on top of
investment in China and the traditional computing and mobility markets.
As the market leader in process control and with our revenue diversification within wafer fab
equipment market coupled with the new opportunities for growth and market expansion
presented by the pending Orbotech acquisition, we believe the company is uniquely positioned
to benefit from this industry growth and we continue to deliver long-term value to our
shareholders.
Looking forward to the second half of 2018 and beyond fueled by record total backlog at the end
of the June quarter and with growth in revenue in the second half of the year, we are positioned
for another year of solid growth in 2018 and look forward to more of the same in 2019.
With that, our guidance for the September quarter is shipments in the range of $935 million to
$1.015 billion, revenue between $1.030 billion and $1.110 billion and GAAP diluted EPS of $2 to $2.32
per share as well as non-GAAP diluted EPS of $2.04 to $2.36 per share.
With that, I'll now turn the call back over to Ed to begin the Q& A.
`Ed Lockwood, Senior Director-Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you, Bren. At this point, we'd like to open-up the call for questions. And we once
again request that you limit yourself to one question with one follow-up given some limited time
we have for today's call. Please feel free to re-queue for any additional questions you may have,
and we will do our best to give everyone a chance for follow-ups in today's call as time permits.
All right. Lance, we're ready for the first question.
Q&A
Operator
The first question comes from the line of Mr. `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC from UBS. Your line is now open.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Thank you very much. Bren, I guess the first question is it looks like you lost maybe $50 million in
shipments for the entirety of the second half, almost all of which was in the third calendar quarter.
So, I guess, my question is, was this all memory, and the inevitable question is going to be why
should everyone trust that September quarter is going to be the bottom? What do you see to
basically catalyze Q4 being better? And I had a follow-up. Thanks.
A - `Bren D. Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, Tim. So it's been pretty well chronicled about some of the push-outs that we've seen over
the next month or so, and that's an industry statement. Yes, it was mostly memory. There was
some impact in some other segments as well, but most of it was memory. Based on what we see
in our build plans, we see a pretty strong snap back into the December quarter, and all indications
here at this point given our conversations with customers, with all customers is that that's thecase. So we're pretty confident about it. I think it's our customers behaving rationally in terms of
how they're managing capacity and we would expect it to come back in Q4.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Awesome, thanks. And then just is my follow-up question. You guys almost always are at/or
above the high end of the earnings range. So if I assume that that's going to happen again in the
third quarter that would put you at basically 9.50 to 9.60 (20:43) in annualized earnings. So the
stock would be trading at roughly 10.5 to 11 times earnings. So I would think that you're chomping
at the bit (20:52) to basically buy back your stock at these levels, so can you talk a little bit about
what the plan is for repo and what the cadence might be once you're able to do that? Thanks.
A - `Bren D. Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
So we authorized a $1 billion which – so I covered this in the prepared remarks. We authorized $1
billion and then another $1 billion contingent on the closing of the Orbotech acquisition and the
timeframe for execution over the next 12 to 18 months. So we were able to do that for legal
reasons in the June quarter and we would expect that we plan to begin doing that in a much
more aggressive way beginning this quarter.
So we tend to be very principle focused in terms of how we think about the execution of this, in
the principle that ultimately drive how we think about deploying the cash flows of the company.
So we plan to do that in a systematic way. Although we do have flexibility to be opportunistic as
we move over the next 12 months. But we expect to step up our posture and we'll increase it
even further after we close the Orbotech acquisition.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Awesome Bren. Thanks so much.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Harlan Sur, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC from JPMorgan. Your line is now open.
Q - `Harlan Sur, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Good afternoon and solid job on the quarterly execution guys. On the significantly better
sustainability of your business relative to others in the equipment market, you guys have always
talked about your business as being more tied to the rate of new technology migration versus
capacity addition. I think your EUV and mask inspection platform is a good example of that. Gen 5
is a good example of that. And it seems that technology migration cadence continues to be
strong across all segments of the market. Is that at a high level? How we should think about the
sustainability of your business here in the second half relative to what your peers are seeing out
there that are probably more, a little bit more capacity focused?
A - `Richard P. Wallace, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Hey, Harlan, it's Rick. I think that's right. There's a couple of factors. One, we do have a more
diversified set of customers as opposed to being pure-play, and so we've got a number of
elements. If you think about mask manufacturing, but also wafer manufacturing has been an
important segment for us. And that has capacity and technology built into it as customers push
the sensitivity requirements and flatness requirements of our wafer manufacturers that drives the
business cycle there.Reticles for new tape-outs for EUV, you talked about Gen 5, it's also true in metrology products.
So it's a broad base of customers all advancing technologies both memory and logic, and we also
have, of course, the activities that are going on in China, so pretty broad and we feel good about
the diversification of the customer base at this point.
Q - `Harlan Sur, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Thanks for the insights there. And the other thing that you guys have talked about and I'm
wondering again how much of this add to a pretty strong second half demand profile, is that you
guys have talked about strong new product pipeline, right, which in some cases is expanding your
SAM opportunity, like the Voyager platform right, that you guys just recent introduced for post
reticle develop (24:03) inspection. You also introduced your Surfscan SP7 tool, here you guys got
90% market share. Like how is the new product cadence and in some cases the SAM expansion
helping the momentum here in the second half and into next year?
A - `Richard P. Wallace, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Well, we've always been a product company, Harlan, so we do need this innovation, and it does
two things. One it enables our customers to move their technology forward. It also makes it very
challenging from a competitive standpoint for people to keep up with us given the rate of
introduction and investment in new capability. And as you point out, we are bringing out new
platforms that will have a new addressable markets in addition to the ones that you mentioned
with Voyager and SP7, there are other products in the pipeline. So it gives us a lot of confidence
as we finish-off calendar 2018 and go into 2019 and beyond that we're well positioned not just to
continue to perform across all sectors, but also drive additional growth through the additional
expansion of our available markets.
A - `Bren D. Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
Hey, Harlan. It's Bren. The other thing, I would add is it helps offset some of the impact of reuse.
When you bring new capability to market, customers want to try to use that capability, and so
there – that becomes pretty attractive to them. It also brings favorable economics with each
generation. So even if they don't need the capability, there's a cost of ownership improvement
that comes with new generations of products. So even if they don't need the capability they tend
to – there's an economic motive as well. So to Rick's point it's important for our competitive
positioning to maintain a cadence that's far ahead of what our competitors are doing, but also
provides an opportunity for customers to leverage the capability and for us to offset the impact
of some of those kinds of things.
Q - `Harlan Sur, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `C. J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC from Evercore. Your line is now open.
Q - `C. J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC `
Yeah. Good afternoon. Thank you for taking my question. I guess, first question, with the adoption
of ASC 606, can you still manage your business to a six-month backlog that's always been a core
part of offering great visibility et cetera? So curious, what the ramifications are of this change in
accounting standard?A - `Bren D. Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. It's a good question C. J. I think around the six month backlog in terms of orders to
shipment, you'll see us continue to manage within that window. I'd ideally like to have that down
closer to five versus six months. Where we will see the impact of ASC 606 is that, you will see
revenue come to the P&L sooner, the standards around qualifying for revenue from a shipment
perspective you'll have more shipments that effectively becoming revenue sooner.
So where we will have – with a consolidated customer base, you have more – potentially more
volatility in the revenue number. We increased the range a little bit as a result of potentially that
factor, because it does reduce the daylight between shipments and revenue. But for our
business, it should stay relatively consistent. I talked to some of the principal changes in the
prepared remarks. But in terms of how we manage lead times to – from order to shipment that
part of our business won't change.
Q - `C. J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC `
Very helpful. And I guess as a follow-up. Typically, I guess in terms of new capacity adds you guys
outperformed. And so as we look at your second half outperformance per the guide, is that
indicative of capacity adds that we should start to see layering in starting Q4, Q1, Q2? Is that a
majority of it? Or is it more leveraged to mask and wafer inspection where the full industry won't
benefit from that? Any way to sort of help us understand the moving parts there?
A - `Bren D. Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So there are a lot of moving parts. I mean you're right, I mean reticle and wafer will have –
those businesses are ramping and so that will have an impact into the first part of the year. The
shipments into China, I don't expect that to abate. That's been fairly consistent. Obviously big
projects, we've seen like over the course of this year, we've had a project a quarter pretty much.
So we'll see how that plays out as you move into the next phases there.
We're seeing foundry logic start to come back in the second half profile, and that – and if you look
at the order mix that I think it's a pretty good harbinger for what we expect to see into the first
part of next year in terms of the bigger contribution from those segments. So I wish I could give
you more but it is a bit of an all of the above answer. But clearly there are aspects to Rick's point
earlier of the ramp around wafer and mask that it's a bit unique to KT.
Q - `C. J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC `
Very helpful. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Krish Sankar, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC from Cowen & Co. your line is now open.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Hi, thanks for taking my question and, Bren, thanks for the color on the September shipments. I
just had a question. It looks like your memory numbers in calendar Q3 are in line with your peers.
You're seeing a nice snapback in foundry. Can you just tell us – give us some color on what's
driving those foundry shipments? Is it one customer or is it across multiple customers? And along
the same path in December, the snapback you're seeing in memory, is it driven by DRAM or
NAND? And I just had a follow-up after that.A - `Bren D. Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
So on the foundry side it's – I mean, we're seeing foundry logic both come back, and so you've
got multiple customers investing there, but certainly on the foundry side one customer is
investing more than others. On the – I'm just taking a quick look here. So in September, we would
expect it to be slightly weighted to DRAM of the memory mix.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Got it. And then as a follow-up question, I just wanted to find out, is there a way – can you guys
say how much of your total sales is exposed to EUV at this point? Is there a way to quantify that?
And also the bare wafer inspection business has been pretty strong for a couple of quarters, how
sustainable do you think this is? Thank you.
A - `Richard P. Wallace, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
We don't really quantify it around the EUV participation, but I would say it's on the order of 5% to
10% depending on how you look at it. And certainly there's development work that's going on.
That will scale. We do think the process control intensity around the EUV is similar to what the
process control intensity is for non-EUV, which means as EUV cost go up for scanners, the process
control will scale with that. So that is definitely consistent trend.
A - `Bren D. Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
And, Krish, what was the second part of your question?
Q - `Krish Sankar, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
The sustainability of the bare wafer inspection business?
A - `Bren D. Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
To the Rick's comments in the prepared remarks, I mean, we're seeing significant investments
there both being driven by the strong memory environment. You've got increasing flatness specs
(31:15). You've got cleanliness specs that are driving investments from the IC manufacturers. To
support all that you have the wafer manufacturers also investing. So they have to deliver wafers.
They have underinvested for a number of years and so you're seeing new investment there
against new specs. So I would expect those numbers to continue to be strong as we move
certainty through this year and through next year as well, and as long as there's significant
investment in memory, from a WFE perspective, we're going to continue to see that business
participate pretty strongly.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Thanks, Rick. Thanks, Bren.
A - `Bren D. Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC from Goldman Sachs. Your line is now
open.Q - `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Yeah, great. Thank you so much. The fundamentals in the flat panel display industry have sort of
deteriorated since you announced the Orbotech deal. So Rick I wanted to ask, if your view on that
part of the industry has changed long term?
A - `Richard P. Wallace, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Well, we always had a through cycle mentality looking at the businesses that Orbotech was in that
hasn't changed and we're not really in a position to talk about their business yet. But in terms of
the strategic nature of that deal, we feel very good about the original thesis and all the
subsequent work we've done so far with that team we're very excited about putting the two
together. And obviously, we'll have a lot more to say once we finish the regulatory process.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Understood. And then secondly, Bren you talked a little bit about service margins improving in the
September quarter and that to some extent offsetting the decline in margins on the product
front. Can you elaborate on that point and talk to the sustainability in service margins? Thank you.
A - `Bren D. Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. Sure. I mean, there were minor changes there. I mean one of the good things we're seeing
in service now is that we've invested pretty significantly in China to add resources to support all
of that business, both to be able to ramp those fabs and then support them over time. And as
you know, they're geographically pretty dispersed.
So between the field resources but also infrastructure to support all that activity, we've been
investing pretty significantly over the last 12 to 18 months.
We're now slowly completing that, and so we're starting to see the incremental margins flow
through on service. So I would expect, one good thing about the consolidated customer base is
we're able to get to leverage service infrastructure, certainly in certain places like in China, or not
– well maybe investments in China, but in Korea or in Taiwan, we're able to try to leverage those
resources.
So it's a good story. And I would expect to see service continue to be well. Obviously, it's dilutive
to our overall gross margins, but the incremental offset some of that ongoing dilution. But we
believe the operating margin profile of the business is certainly strong and accretive to the
overall company.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Thanks so much.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP from SIG. Your line is now open.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Yes. Thanks for taking my question. Just looking at your shipment by geography, Korea was really
strong this past fiscal year. I'm just trying to better understand, would you be able to qualitatively
help me understand the mix maybe perhaps between memory and bare wafer?A - `Bren D. Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
Most of it is memory.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Okay.
A - `Bren D. Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
In Korea, I mean, there is a little bare wafer, but most of it is memory.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Okay, helpful. And then looking forward, there are a couple of new fabs coming online, greenfield
fabs, and I'm trying to assess how I should think about your new product and scaling. Should we
expect your revenue to – or a percentage of your system revenue as a percentage of WFE finally
to hit 10% plus as your design wins or scale especially for 3D NAND and two of these new fabs or
for 90 plus (35:38) layer 3D NAND manufacturing and would that give you opportunity to see a
material increase in memory especially NAND?
A - `Bren D. Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, so, we've been pretty pleased with the process control intensity improvement that we've
seen in flash. And so it's been a good sign. I would expect that the new products if we can
continue to solve customer problems, we'll continue to see some momentum there. It's still –
about half that of what we see in foundry logic, so the intensity for lots of reasons is lower, but
we are seeing incremental improvement, we've seen more metrology, we have new metrology
products specifically targeted at that space that should help with fab. So as we move forward
with increasing foundry logic mix, we would expect into next year, really kind of an all-time low this
year, we would also expect that to implement the overall process control intensity as a percent of
wafer fab. But we're encouraged by what we're seeing in 3D NAND, and if we can continue to
execute, hopefully there's more there for us.
A - `Richard P. Wallace, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
So Mehdi just to build on that, challenge has not been available problems to solve, the challenge
has been solutions which solve those problems, and it's not a competitive challenge for us, it's
just a feasibility. So it's taken some time to work and collaborate with those customers to get new
technologies to market really to address the verticalization of NAND and we have very strong
products in the pipeline addressing that. So we think calendar 2019 we'll see continued success
with those initial penetration and that will be the basis for driving additional percent of WFE out of
memory.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Okay. So one way or another it should move higher? Right now it's like 7% to 8% of WFE it should
move higher as...?
A - `Richard P. Wallace, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Correct.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `Okay. Got it. Thank you.
A - `Richard P. Wallace, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Atif Malik, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. from Citigroup. Your line is now open.
Q - `Atif Malik, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. And good job on the guiding in tough environment. Two
questions in China, Rick, my understanding is that the three key domestic Chinese product lines
are almost done this year and the emphasis is to improve the yields. Given your position in
inspection market, can you just update us where the yield stand with those domestic projects?
And then what your expectations are for the volume business to come from those projects? And
then as a follow-up, if you can also talk about tariffs and implications from tariffs on your supply
chain or your business?
A - `Richard P. Wallace, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Sure. The exciting thing is we have great partnerships with our customers in China looking at
ramping greenfield facilities. And as you might imagine, there's a lot of interest in our expertise
and capability there. So we're partnered very closely and we've had a lot of executive exchanges
as well as others. So we feel very good about our ability to support their new fabs and their ramp.
I won't get into specific of the yields, but they are making progress. We are seeing the promise
of additional investment based on the initial success that they're seeing and we feel very good
about our position in enabling that as they go forward. And of course, in this case it's really across
the product portfolio. In terms of the implications of tariffs, our supply chain isn't based in China,
so from a standpoint of our key components, we're not really subject to that. Obviously, we have
an eye out for other changes that could be coming, but as of this point, it has not had any impact
on our business.
A - `Bren D. Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
And then Atif, just in terms of the investment profile, I mean, as we – and just thinking about from
an order perspective and there's a little bit more lead time to these orders, because in a lot of
cases they're building new facilities. But we've seen remarkable stability if you just go back over
the last couple of years even as we look forward of the business levels we're seeing in China. So
this year, we should book somewhere in the neighborhood, and I've said this before, somewhere
in the neighborhood of about $600 million, or so from indigenous China. And I would expect that
level of investment to continue. And we'll see as we start gauging – we're a little ways away
(40:04) from what things will look like as we move into 2019. But all indications at this point give
me confidence that we're going to continue to see this level of investment from these players as
we move forward.
Q - `Atif Malik, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Thank you.
OperatorYour next question comes from the line of Mr. John Pitzer from Credit Suisse. Your now is now
open.
Q - `John William Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
Good afternoon, Rick. Thanks for letting me ask some questions. Congratulations on the solid
results. I think you guys talked about in your prepared comments, the September shipments from
logic being down around 5%, which I think is the second lowest in kind of our data set at least. I'm
kind of curious, as you think about the December recovery is logic kind of helping bolster that
view of a recovery in December or is it still just mostly memory?
A - `Richard P. Wallace, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Hey, John, Bren here (40:57)
A - `Bren D. Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, so John, you're right. I mean, September is fairly weak. So we do see some bounce back in
that segment. We also see bounce back in foundry. So we do see the shift in profile of 40-ish-
percent or so of the shipment mix going to foundry logic into the second half of the year. So
yeah, it looks like it's going to bounce back, it looks like there's some sustainability to it into the
first part of next year.
Q - `John William Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
That's helpful. And then Rick it's nice to see that despite the fact that WFE is mixing slightly more
towards memory this year than last year, but you guys are still significantly outgrowing WFE. I'm
curious to what extent do think that's just better leverage to memory versus kind of EUV playing
out this year? And you talked about kind of the process intensity of NAND, how should we think
about 1Y and 1Z on the DRAM front?
A - `Richard P. Wallace, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
So I think the part that's maybe a little misunderstood and we need to do a better job explaining
it, is things like the wafer manufacturers there is high capital intensity of inspection and metrology
for those, and they're really feeding the memory guys. So it's probably the case that our intensity
around memory is higher than the way it's traditionally thought of. So we're seeing a lot of benefit
in the demands that are placed on wafers as they move to new technologies in memory because
of the cleanliness and also the flatness. So that's actually been a boost. And then as you point
out, John, the EUV factor is still there. And then lastly, we'd say the process control intensity in
China has been supportive of the overall business environment for us as we have great positions
there and they are in their early stages of trying to ramp new facilities. So I think all those factors
have come together to give us a very nice 2018 and what looks like a very strong 2019.
Q - `John William Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
Perfect. Thank you very much.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Mr. Edwin Mok from Needham. Your line is now open.
Q - `Y. Edwin Mok, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC `Great job guys. Thanks for taking my questions. First question on the foundry side, you
mentioned that there is improvement on foundry shipment from September to December, did I
calculate correctly second half actually really strong versus first half, is it all driven by 7-
nanometer? Or are you seeing trailing edge demand of 5-nanometer? And then just kind of tied
to 5-nanometer, should we expect a much higher level of Gen 5 adoption of 5 nanometer versus
7 nanometer, can you talk about Gen 5 progress there?
A - `Richard P. Wallace, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
I think there's a couple of ways to think about it. It's early for five, but EUV activity drives a lot of
the business in the mask shop and so we're seeing a benefit from that in terms of our business in
mask is doing quite well. Also wafer manufacturers, they are very supportive of bringing in new
capability, so we're seeing that as a driver. And then you do see Gen 5 and you see actually some
of the metrology tools too in support of the new nodes. So I think it's really a combination of
those factors that gives us the diversification of reach across the customers, and is really driving
the general outperform.
A - `Bren D. Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I think the other thing that's happening is you are seeing an increase in 7-nanometer tape-
outs moving through the foundries. And so, A, that's driving certain reticle capabilities not just
riders, (44:20) but then inspectors from us, but we would expect some follow-on capacity
additions to support that business. As we move into 2019, you start to see some of that
investment around 5-nanometer development. Certainly Gen 5 plays a bigger role in that. I would
expect that business to grow next year versus this year just driven by some of these dynamics.
Q - `Y. Edwin Mok, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC `
Great. That was extremely helpful. And then just a question on the core OpEx, and I guess
operating leverage on the model, Bren do you think you can sustain OpEx at this level, seems like
December you're going to grow quite a bit and sounds like (45:00) at least in the first half of
2019. Do you think you can maintain OpEx at this level or just grow OpEx modestly, can you talk
about that?
A - `Bren D. Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, we think that OpEx is going to trend in line with the model that we published. So we're
operating about 50 to 100 basis points above that model for these revenue levels given the
commentary we provided around next year sort of fits within that. So I would see the OpEx
scaling a little bit in line with the models we published. We try to drive incremental margins
certainly greater than 40%, target 40% to 50% on our incremental margins. So there's a number
of new programs we're investing in, new platform supporting EUV, supporting (45:41) metrology.
So in addition to a couple of things that we just recently announced and there's follow-on activity
around those. So I would expect this to continue to invest, we're going to deliver to the model
we've been public with and we're going to continue to try to drive leverage through. But given
the level of business we're seeing, I feel pretty good about the sustainability of our investment
profile.
Q - `Y. Edwin Mok, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC `
Great, extremely helpful. Thank you.A - `Bren D. Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Mr. Patrick Ho from Stifel. Your line is now open.
Q - `Patrick J Ho, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Thank you very much, and Rick, appreciate the color you have given on some of the increasing
capital intensity trends on the memory side. Maybe as a follow-up to John's question earlier
about DRAM and the 1X and 1Y, you talked about the cleanliness and some of the issues there. As
the DRAM industry moves to 1Y and you see a lot more of these multi patterning steps and even
some of the process change where they become I guess more logic like, is that also helping to
increase the process control intensity given that they are more logic like, and obviously those –
that's been your key bread and butter for years?
A - `Richard P. Wallace, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Well, certainly, we are seeing interest in some adoption of Gen 5 and the DRAM guys as they
look at 1Y. And so absolutely we're seeing that. And that wasn't necessarily originally anticipated
the degree with which we've seen that strength, but it just – it kind of goes to the point of the
desire to get more capability in there, and the fact that the coverage matters quite a bit. So
we've displaced some interest that people had had at e-beam for those applications with Gen 5.
So we feel very good about that and we're definitely getting indications that there's more to
come there. It's just not that. It's also registration. So if you think about DRAM and the challenges
it has for registration we see more adoption there as well. So we feel very good about the trends
that we're seeing in memory as well.
A - `Bren D. Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
So, Patrick, we're encouraged. We're trying to be a little more conservative in terms of how we
model it just given the historic behavior from these customers, but we deliver – believe that we
can deliver unique capability here around some of these problems that that's an opportunity for
us.
Most of the context that provide around performance in intensity levels is based on little
improvement there. So if we can drive improvement in process control intensity then that's an
opportunity for us to deliver incremental upside sort of the base model about how we're running
the business over the next few years.
Q - `Patrick J Ho, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Great. And, Bren, maybe my follow-up question in terms of services, you talked about 75% of
your revenues are coming from, I guess, the service contracts today. But unlike process tools
which in many cases can eat themselves off, and it just becomes a kind of recurring revenue
stream of replacing parts. Can you give a little color on the type of value-added solution or some
of the product enhancement that process control can offer and how that can grow?
A - `Bren D. Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, I mean, certainly the contract profile you've got it pretty well, where there's a limitedstructure to ensure that the uptime and availability is there. And so the 75% level of contract as a
percent of the total has been fairly consistent at that level.
So we feel very good about the sustainability of that over time as they stretch the installed base.
We're continuing to look for opportunities to sell incremental enhancements to the installed base.
As you know that there's a lot of trailing edge activity that's happening to support automotive
and IoT, they're running those older fabs in the installed base much harder. So there's
incremental demand for those customers to not only keep drive higher uptime for their tools,
which is driving the business, but also to buy enhancements to the current installed base.
And those fabs are full. So (49:54) like in some cases you can move in extra tools, you're going to
add incremental capabilities to the existing tool whether it's speed or increased sensitivity. So
we're pursuing and look at those opportunities, and given the stratification of demand for semi, it
creates an interesting opportunity for us going forward.
A - `Richard P. Wallace, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
And maybe a very significant difference between process control, service business and process
business is the availability of alternative suppliers for consumables. So if you're in a process
company you have that threat of outside sources providing consumables. Process control, we
have a very strong position to enable and make this equipment continue to perform as it's
designed and that's really a big part of the value proposition. So they are different businesses.
Q - `Patrick J Ho, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Thank you.
A - `Ed Lockwood, Senior Director-Investor Relations `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Sidney Ho, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. from Deutsche Bank. Your line is now open.
Q - `Sidney Ho, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Thanks for taking my question. Your largest foundry customer in Taiwan talked about improving
manufacturing efficiencies. From your experience with them, do their CapEx cut impacting all the
equipment types equally, or do you think that will impact you guys less because process control is
more front-end loaded? And clearly your guidance for September quarter is very good, do you
think it is more than offset by their spending on 7-nanometers and EUV?
A - `Richard P. Wallace, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Well, I think there's two sides of it. One, we like to believe we enable better capital efficiency by
helping customers get more value out of the rest of their tools. On the other hand, of course,
every customer is trying to manage all their costs and to work across the products to extend and
reuse. And as Bren said, one of the keys to our success is to continually bring out new products
and new capabilities as a counter.
What you've clearly got to show is continued improvement and cost of ownership performance,
which means more capability. So I think the answer is kind of both. I think you definitely see a pushfrom all of our customers to enhance their sustainability of their investment and by doing that
drive efficiency. And we enable that and we also try to support it by driving new capabilities.
Q - `Sidney Ho, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Okay, great. My follow-up question is related to China. You talked about your shipment strength
in China this quarter, this June quarter. About a year ago, you talked about China as a region, has
a potential SAM for process control for about $5 billion between 2017 and 2020. Given your
comment that Chinese manufacturers seems to have higher process control intensity, do you
think that estimate is higher, lower or just about the same?
A - `Richard P. Wallace, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
I think it's too early to say. I mean, we've seen, in the same time, we've seen some softening in
the forecast for the total wafer outs in China, so I don't know that we could speculate on that. We
are pleased with the production, the support and the business that we've got in China, but I
would say if they meet their published goals, then we'll exceed that target. However, I think
there's some definite challenges that they've got in terms of scaling those factories over time in
the next couple of years.
Q - `Sidney Ho, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
All right. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Your line
is now open.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thanks for taking my question. One more on China. So shipments there were 32% of total versus
19%, 18% kind of level, were there any one-offs? And I think somewhere during the prepared
remarks, you mentioned that you expect China to stay around the $600 million contribution level
next year, so kind of flat. I just wanted to confirm I heard that right.
A - `Bren D. Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
You did. I mean that's an order level, and so what actually – how much actually ships and revenues
may deviate a bit, although we've been – things have been pretty consistent in and around that
level, so that's a reasonable number to use as you think moving forward. And if you look last
quarter there were significant vertical NAND project that we shipped to this quarter, there's a
significant DRAM project, it's not all the business but certainly a big part of it.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Got it. And then on the services side, is there a backlog number we should keep in mind or I
guess asked in a different way, if we assume that WFE is conceptually flat next year, can you still
grow your services business at a double digit rate?
A - `Bren D. Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
I mean the way the service business generally works is you have book and ship in the same
quarter. There's some extended warranty backlog, but it's pretty minor. So there isn't a backlognumber, but it continuous in terms of the contracts that we signed and then we get the POs
(54:49) that are consistent with those contracts.
A - `Richard P. Wallace, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
But the other thing that contributes to it, if you think about the installed base and how long it last,
one of the things driving, if you will, IoT or automotive is fabs being utilized longer, customers
wanting more capability, wanting both enhancements and also those tools around (55:06) longer.
So the decay rate of what we would have originally modeled the tools coming-off contract is
slower and that's how you can drive growth even in a flat systems shipment business, which we
don't think ours will be flat by the way even if WFE is flat, we're going to grow this year. So we
think there's still a lot of energy left in the sustainability of the growth in services.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
All right. Thank you.
A - `Ed Lockwood, Senior Director-Investor Relations `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Harlan Sur, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC from JPMorgan. Your line is now open.
Q - `Harlan Sur, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Yeah. Thanks for the follow-up. Given how far behind China is in terms of mainstream technology
adoption, given that they do have a track record of higher process control intensity, have you
guys seen any Gen 5 pull-ins from China which may help them to accelerate the yield learning.
And then just a quick follow-up in terms of keeping the product pipeline healthy, can you just give
us an update on the multi-column e-beam, EUV, reticle inspection platform, is that still on track for
introduction next year?
A - `Richard P. Wallace, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Boy, those are two very different questions, Harlan. So in terms of the indigenous China projects,
we have not seen demand yet for Gen 5 for those projects. We think that's down the road for the
guys that are doing memory. That's something that's certainly we could envision down the road
once as you say. Right now, that's not really their focus nor at this point is it their need we can
satisfy with a number of the products that we already have.
In terms of the multi-beam product, we continue to make investment, we continue to work
through some of the technical hurdles and we have a lot of close engagements with our
customers on that, and there's clearly a lot of customer interest, but I won't go beyond that at
this point.
Q - `Harlan Sur, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
There are no further questions. Presenters, I'll turn the call over back to you.A - `Ed Lockwood, Senior Director-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Lance. And thank you all for joining us today, and your ongoing interest and ownership
of KLA-Tencor. Enjoy the rest of your day.
Operator
This concludes this conference. You may now disconnect.