Q4 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the KLA Corporation Fourth
Quarter Fiscal Year 2020 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in listen-only
mode. After the speaker's remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator
Instructions).
I would now like to hand the conference over to Mr.`Kevin Kessel, Vice President of Investor Relations, Vice President of Investor
Relations. Please go ahead, sir.
`Kevin Kessel, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you, and welcome to KLA's fiscal Q4 2020 quarterly earnings call, to discuss the results of
our June quarter and outlook for the September quarter. Joining me today is `Rick Wallace, Chief Executive Officer, our
Chief Executive Officer; and `Bren Higgins, Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Financial Officer.
During today's call, we will discuss quarterly results for the period ended June 30, 2020, that we
released today after the market closed in the form of a press release, shareholder letter and
slide deck. All these documents can be found on the IR section of our website.
Today's discussion of our financial results and outlook is presented on a non-GAAP financial basis
unless otherwise specified. A detailed reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP results is in today's
earnings materials posted on the KLA IR website. Our IR website also contains a calendar of
future virtual investor events as well as presentations, corporate governance information,
including our quiet period policy and links to KLA's SEC filings, including the most recent annualOur comments today are subject to risks and uncertainties reflected in the risk factors disclosed
in our SEC filings. Any forward-looking statements including those we make on the call today are
also subject to those risks, and KLA cannot guarantee those forward-looking statements will
come true. Our actual results may differ significantly from those projected in our forward-looking
statements.
As we mentioned last quarter, we are changing the format of these calls to provide deeper
insights into KLA and our business performance, and also allow more time for Q&A. Beginning
this quarter, we will provide some highlights from our full prepared remarks, which can be found
in the shareholders' letter, before beginning our Q&A session. I encourage you all to read the
letter. It can be accessed on our KLA IR website.
And with that, I'd like to turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer, Rick
Wallace.
`Rick Wallace, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Kevin, and thank you all for joining us today. On behalf of all of us at KLA, we hope you
and your families are safe and in good health, and we thank you for your continued interest and
support of our company. In many ways, our performance in the June quarter once again highlights
how the KLA operating model and long-term strategic objectives provide a dependable
framework to guide our execution and help us consistently deliver on our commitments. Thanks
to the dedication, engagement and perseverance of our global workforce in the face of the
challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic.
KLA delivered strong results in the June 2020 quarter. Revenue and non-GAAP EPS, each finished
above the midpoint of our guidance ranges, demonstrating strong consistent demand from our
customers, exceptional execution by our teams and the enduring strength and resiliency of the
KLA operating model under today's extraordinary circumstances.
For my opening remarks today, I plan to touch on some of the key messages from our letter to
shareholders. I'll start with an update on our priorities related to COVID-19, touch on the industry
demand environment and then cover 5 highlights from the quarter, before passing it to Bren,
who will review our financial highlights and our outlook.
In terms of COVID-19, we continue to take proactive measures to ensure the health and safety of
our employees, their families and our partners. Our action to-date have been successful and
effective as reflected in our strong financial results in the first -- half of calendar 2020, but more
importantly in our safety record to this point in this pandemic. What's also important is that our
worldwide teams have never lost sight of what our customers need.
Our teams have been exceptionally resourceful and committed to executing for our customers
most pressing needs and challenges. Customer feedback has been outstanding. KLA is
consistently delivering on our customer commitments.
Investments in the long term remains an important priority for us during this time. We're confident
that our R&D investments will help ensure a bright future.
Now, turning to the industry demand environment. Customer demand is strong. We ended the
quarter with our second highest level of quarterly backlog ever. In the June quarter, we saw broad
diversification strength across each of our segments. Semiconductor process control was above
plan, multiple EPC businesses set records, and our services business achieved record
installations.Today's environment continues to accelerate many of the secular industry growth drivers that we
outlined in our 2019 Investor Day. Data center demand, 5G infrastructure, the revival of PC
demand to support work-from-home, virtual collaboration, remote learning and entertainment,
and gaming are driving an acceleration of the data era that translates across end markets and
industries.
We're also seeing this acceleration in our own business, adopting new digital productivity tools to
improve collaboration with teams and customers. We've also increased investment to accelerate
digitalization of our global enterprises. For example, in our services business, we're working
closely with our customers to expand remote service technologies to augment our in-country
service and installations engineers.
Here are 5 highlights that stood out the most during the past quarter. First, we saw continued
strength and foundry and logic in the June quarter, and our revenue forecast for the remainder of
2020 shows relative balance between businesses from these customers.
Business from memory customers is improving somewhat in the second half of 2020 versus first
half with higher business levels and more customer breadth expected in the December quarter
with that momentum continuing into 2021.
Second, KLA ended the June quarter with near-record total company backlog demonstrating
momentum in the marketplace across our portfolio. Newly launched products such as the well-
received eSL10 e-beam inspection platform, helped drive our market leadership.
Third, our services business continues to perform well and remains on track for growth and
healthy free cash flow generation once again this calendar year. The services business set a
record for system installations in the quarter. We see robust service contract penetration which
has risen steadily from the 70% plus contract penetration to 75% plus over the past several
quarters and delivering a strong recurring revenue stream. We're forecasting service revenue
growth in 2020 in line with our long term annual 9% to 11% target.
Fourth, the newly formed Electronics Packaging and Components or EPC Group delivered record
results in the June quarter and finished above our internal forecast. Within EPC, we achieved the
key milestone with the SPTS delivering record quarterly revenue of $100 million in the June
quarter. We expect 2020 to be a year of double-digit growth for SPTS.
PCB also had a record quarter, driven by improved market positioning supporting 5G
infrastructure and handsets. The strong results for EPC are coming about 18 months post the
acquisition of Orbotech. We're very pleased to see the successful demonstration of our strategic
growth strategies bearing fruit. We're also on pace to achieve cost synergies from the Orbotech
acquisition above the original targets.
Finally, in keeping with our commitment to deliver strong and predictable capital returns to our
shareholders, today we announced our Board of Directors has approved the 11th consecutive
annual dividend increase. The increase raises our quarterly dividend by $0.05 to $0.90 per share
for an annual run rate dividend of $3.60 per share. KLA's dividend payout has grown at a CAGR of
approximately 15% since inception.
Before I hand it over to Bren, let me summarize by saying KLA's focus on innovation and
execution combined with market leadership and robust free cash flow have helped us
successfully navigate through these challenging times. We believe the secular factors driving
industry demand in our 2023 targets remain firmly intact, and will drive diversified growth withstrong long-term operating leverage that positions our business to be even stronger and more
resilient in the future.
With that, I'll turn it over to Bren.
`Bren Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Rick. KLA's June quarter results highlight both the soundness and strength of our ongoing
strategy. We are demonstrating our ability to meet customer needs and expand our market
leadership. All while growing operating profits, generating strong free cash flow and maintaining
our robust capital return strategies.
Total revenue was $1.46 billion. Non-GAAP gross margin was 60.3%, slightly above the midpoint
as guided range of the quarter of 59% to 61%. Non-GAAP EPS was $2.73, towards the high end of
the guided range of $1.81 to $2.87. GAAP EPS was $2.63.
Revenue for the semiconductor process control segment was modestly above expectations for
the quarter. Foundry was once again strong at approximately 50% of semiconductor process
control systems' revenue. Logic was about 10% of semiconductor systems' revenue, and memory
customers were roughly flat at 40% in the June quarter. Within memory, the business was evenly
split about 50-50 between DRAM and NAND.
Revenue for the specialty semiconductor process segment was a record $100 million, up 18%
sequentially and 50% year-over-year and is on track for double-digit growth in calendar '20. PCB,
display and component inspection revenue was also a record at $202 million, up 26% sequentially
and 10% year-over-year and above internal plans.
In terms of balance sheet highlights, KLA ended the quarter with $2 billion in cash, total debt of
$3.5 billion, and a flexible and attractive bond maturity profile supported by investment-grade
ratings from all three agencies. From a cash flow and capital returns perspective, free cash flow
was $411 million in the June quarter, free cash flow conversion was 96.5%, and free cash flow
margin was 28.2%.
For capital returns over the past 12 months, we have returned $1.35 billion to shareholders or 83%
of free cash flow, including $522 million in dividends paid, and $829 million in share repurchases.
We believe our track record is delivering strong capital returns, is a key component of the KLA
investment pieces and offers predictable and compelling value creation for our shareholders.
As Rick mentioned a moment ago, our Board approved 11 consecutive annual dividend increase
that resulted in an annual run rate dividend of $3.60 per share. As it relates to guidance for the
September quarter, we would like to start out by saying that our operations teams have done a
great job of mitigating the supply chain challenges and disruptions related to COVID-19, although,
we are carrying more inventory to mitigate unanticipated disruptions should they occur.
The extra measures we have taken to maintain flexibility and continuity of supply for critical
components in our supply chain have definitely been effective, as demonstrated by KLA's strong
results for both our March and June quarters, that either met or exceeded the midpoint of
guidance ranges. With that said, we are narrowing our guidance range as we generally see
consistency in the current operating environment.
The demand profile today for the second half of the year is firming and we now anticipate that
the second half will grow versus the first half of 2020. For the calendar year, we expect a faster
than market growth year for our semiconductor process control business and growth for the totalWith that, guidance for the September quarter is as follows: Total revenue is expected to be
$1.48 billion, plus or minus $75 million. We forecast non-GAAP gross margin to be in a range of
60.5% to 62.5% as product mix is more favorable versus the June quarter. The market reception
to new product offerings in our semiconductor process control business has been strong. And as
outlined at our Investor Day back in September, the company has made solid progress on our
plans of driving cost and efficiencies on new product platforms, and leveraging scale derived by
our worldwide service infrastructure.
Finally, GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in a range of $2.18 to $2.82, and non-GAAP diluted EPS
in a range of $2.42 to $3.06.
In closing, we have adapted to a challenging environment. We are executing well and have even
more confidence that we are on track to meet our 2023 target model, both in terms of top-line
growth and profitability. We are encouraged by the strength and resiliency of the KLA operating
model which guides our strategic objectives. These objectives fuel our growth, operational
excellence and differentiation across an increasingly more diverse product and service offering.
They also underpin our sustained technology leadership, deep competitive mode and strong
track record of free cash flow generation in capital returns to shareholders.
With that, I'll now turn the call over to Kevin to begin the Q&A.
`Kevin Kessel, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Charlie, please provide the instructions for the queuing and begin the Q&A.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Sure sir. (Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of `Harlan Sur, JP Morgan with JP
Morgan. Your line is now open.
Q - `Harlan Sur, JP Morgan `
Good afternoon. Solid job on the quarterly execution. Three months ago the industry supply chain
as well as demand trends looked pretty uncertain, you fast forward to today, supply chain has
come back, semiconductor fundamentals, while weak in June are slowly showing signs of
improvement entering the second half of the year.
If I look at your results and guide and make some assumptions on this December, it looks like you
will be towards the upper end of your pre-COVID-19 revenue outlook or sort of in that low double
digits percentage revenue growth for this calendar year. First is that a fair assumption and maybe
some commentary on your WFE spending outlook today versus pre-COVID-19 earlier this year?
A - `Bren Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
Hi Harlan, it's Bren. I'll go first here. So I think your conclusions are generally correct. As we said in
the prepared remarks, we see our view on the year to be generally at the -- within our long-term
target growth range of 7% to 9 % or above. And so as we look at the year overall, I don't think
things have changed all that much. I mean you're right there was always a lot that had to be done
back in March and June in terms of managing supply chain and supporting customers, but we
worked through all that and we've got some consistency now in our overall view.So in general, I would say that our views overall are virtually unchanged. On WFE, everybody
counts it up a little bit differently, but I would say I don't want to put a point number out there, but
I would say that somewhere in the mid-to-high single digit type growth, 55 to -- or mid-50s to
high 50s, probably the right way to think about it.
Q - `Harlan Sur, JP Morgan `
Great. Thanks for that. As you entered the June quarter, I remember with the view of strong
specialty semiconductor trends, but maybe more muted trends within some of your other EPC
segments like PCB and display, as these are more consumer and sort of autofocus -- automotive
focus segments for you guys and probably more impacted by COVID-19.
But you've already delivered strong double-digit sequential and year-over-year growth in the PCB
display and components inspection business. So what drove these solid trends and how are you
thinking about this particular segment, as you move to the second half of this year?
A - `Rick Wallace, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thanks Harlan. Really pleased with the performance in EPC, and I think you have to -- when
you think about the different divisions, we saw strong continued momentum in packaging and
that's really the ICOS business. We're also seeing SPTS, the specialty semi-business had a very
strong showing and we mentioned that set of record there for revenue. PCB was earlier in the
year looked like it was going to soften and it strengthened and driven a lot by 5G infrastructure
build out and we feel really good about the execution of that team, Display is still in a tough spot.
And that's not one that really we saw a lot of strength and we're following through on the
conversations we've had on display where we're working on the cost structure and being
positioned for when the recovery happens there.
But I think the other business is -- the other thing that's really notable is SPTS had a very strong
quarter in spite of no automotive business. So that's really upside as we go forward and I think it's
pretty fair to say automotive semiconductors have bottomed, and so we feel pretty good about,
it's pretty much all upside from here as the spending has heavily been curtailed but it shows signs
toward the end of next year, this year and then into 2021, we'll see some resumption of
investment as the electrification projects continue.
So yeah, we feel good about where we are with that and we are definitely getting traction having
those under one organization and engaging with customers at a high level.
A - `Bren Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
Hi, Harlan, its Bren. The only other thing I'll add to that as we go back to April, when we were
thinking about the quarter, it was unclear what the handset environment would look like in the
second half of the year. And so I think one of the encouraging signs that we did see to Rick's
point was the PCB business was really driven by 5G and the preparation for the handset
introductions that are to come.
So that was a bit of a surprise for us or perhaps had some unknown built into it, just related to
overall COVID. So drove the SPTS business as Rick said, but also drove incremental upside in PCB.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `John Pitzer, Credit Suisse U.S. with Credit Suisse. Your line is now open.
Q - `John Pitzer, Credit Suisse U.S. `Yes, good afternoon guys. Congratulations on the solid results. Thanks for letting me ask a
question. Bren, just on the gross margin guide into September, pretty good sequential growth.
What do you think just unpack that a little bit, is this a larger percent coming from the semi
process control? Or is it mixed within SPC?
And I guess importantly, do you think that the June quarter and now growth into the September is
a trend that you can sustain going forward or is this kind of an anomaly quarter relative to mix?
A - `Bren Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Hey, John. So I would say that yes, I mean quarter-to-quarter, we're seeing a sequential
growth in semi-PC, and so that's having a positive effect on gross margins. And so I think that
what we're seeing there I am encouraged as I said in the shareholder letter, we talked a lot about
driving cost and efficiency improvements in new platforms and customer reception has been
strong. So we feel pretty good about the product portfolio we have and the margin position.
So let me just say that I have more confidence around our margin trajectory moving forward,
although quarter-to-quarter the mix dynamic tends to be the biggest factor that drives our
margin around this range, but certainly as we look forward we feel pretty confident that we
should be able to maintain this sort of 61% above type trajectory that we're experiencing right
now.
Q - `John Pitzer, Credit Suisse U.S. `
And then to my follow-up, Rick can you talk about second half of the calendar year growing over
the first half. I'm kind of curious if you could break that down between sort of memory and logic
foundry and how might that have changed over the last 90 days?
And I don't want to put words in your mouth, but it sounds like maybe you're less optimistic about
a memory uptick in the back half of the year and perhaps more optimistic about logic and foundry
sustaining and if that's the case in any read as we go into calendar year '21?
A - `Rick Wallace, Chief Executive Officer `
We do see -- we think there's a lot of evidence that the foundry and logic is going to hold through
the second half and I think that also now we're getting indications of strength going into '21. Part
of the uncertainty I think around the year that everybody has is the memory recovery probably
towards the end of the calendar year and that's really where we would expect it in Q4 to
strengthen there.
So that's I think maybe the less certain part of that. But the setup for logic looks really good. I
think the progress that customers, and designs and the ongoing investment by our customers
and multiple design wins, and multiple proliferation of devices, and multiple players, so we're also
getting breadth. And our products are doing really well, so we feel pretty strong about how the
logic-foundry is going to hold up.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Krish Sankar, Cowen & Co., LLC with Cowen & Company. Your line is now
open.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Cowen & Co., LLC `Yes, hi. Thanks for taking my question. I have two of them, firstly, Rick or Bren, clearly like two of
your large logic and foundry customers have spoken about push out of either the 7 nanometer or
potentially even the 3 nanometer in the foundry side. With that backdrop, how do you think of
KLA's process controlled revenue opportunity over the next year or two, given that some of the
leading edge nodes are getting pushed out? And then I have a follow-up.
A - `Bren Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, there's really nothing that's been discussed publicly that hadn't been the way we've been
factoring and forecasting our business. It's pretty much consistent with what we've seen. I think
some of the public announcements are catching up with some of what was going on. You have to
look at why there are delays, when there are delays. And the delays tend to come from, it's much
more an inability to execute than it is at demand. There's plenty of demand at the leading edge.
It's the challenges associated with yield management with process control, with the overall
process integration. And those are factors that we're heavily involved in. So, we think that there's
a lot of continued momentum for us and process control, both metrology and inspection on the
leading nodes and so that's part of why our earlier comments in the last Q&A question were
about the strengths that we see through the calendar year and then into '21.
So we feel pretty good about how that's going and I think our -- in partnership with our
customers, we're helping them work through some of the most challenging metrology and
defectivity issues, some of which frankly they did not anticipate but we did, and we've been
showing some value and getting adoption as a result. That make sense?
Q - `Krish Sankar, Cowen & Co., LLC `
Yes, Bren thanks a lot. And then just to follow-up on the product side, you guys introduced the
pattern wafer e-beam inspection to lift semicon. I'm just trying to figure out, does your e-beam
tools still focus on defect detection or you're still looking at patent facility or voltage contract and
your competitors are going to like multi-beam tools. You guys are still at single beam, so I just
want to figure out the e-beam roadmap. Thank you.
A - `Bren Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, so what we wanted to make sure is that we could provide differentiated performance to
address the market gaps that existed and we could provide customers a complementary solution
along with their optical tools. Because what they're really trying to balance is how do they get all
the characterization understanding and product development that they've been looking for out of
portfolio.
So we have some unique capabilities in our e-beam inspection tool. We think that the coverage it
provides and the uniqueness, in addition to the fact that it's closely coupled with our optical tools
gives a very strong advantage to our customers by using them in parallel and that's what we're
seeing. We have mapped out and we have a lot of confidence that we understand what the
roadmaps look like in terms of the different e-beam architectures, and we feel very confident
about our ability to be competitive in e-beam.
We wouldn't have re-entered the market, if we didn't feel like we had a differentiated solution.
And so that's the ability both define the defects of interest, and define them as throughputs that
are compelling for our customers. And we -- as we map out the future, we don't see any gap
between us and competitors. In fact, we see that we have the ability to continue to differentiate
our solution.Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `CJ Muse, Evercore ISI with Evercore ISI. Your line is now open.
Q - `CJ Muse, Evercore ISI
Yes, good afternoon. Thank you for taking the question. I guess first question was hoping you
could provide a little more color on your prepared comments regarding memory and greater
breadth of spending into Q4 and then beyond into 2021. Would love to hear kind of what you're
hearing in dialogue with customers there?
A - `Bren Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, CJ, it's Bren. I mean judging by our percent of business for the September quarter that's
memory, it's lighter than in June. So most of what we see in the second half and this was one
area where it wasn't all that clear if you back up three months ago and say okay, we thought we
saw -- see some memory recovery in the second half of the year, wasn't exactly sure when we'd
see it.
But as we -- so looks like it's more December focused and it -- I would say it is probably heavier
on the flash side. Although, there is fluidity in terms of how customers are thinking about those
investment plans, but I think you can look at all the players that are out there that we would
expect to see business start to improve in that timeframe and then I think there's solid
momentum as we move into next year.
I don't want to provide a color on '21, but I think as we take a step back and look at where
memory has been, I mean starting in the middle of 2018 we've seen a pullback and very
disciplined management of memory capacity and most of the investment focused on technology
transition. So as that market continues to recover, I think that the market is in a pretty healthy
place overall as we move into '21.
Q - `CJ Muse, Evercore ISI
That's helpful. As my follow-up for the PCB display and component business including service.
How are you thinking about second half calendar year versus the first half?
And then as part of that how should we be thinking about the seasonality in terms of peak
quarter Q3 versus Q4 given how dominant PCB is within the construct there? Thank you.
A - `Bren Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. SPTS, I would -- it potentially could be flattish half-to-half. We'll have to see how it plays out. I
think PCB's second half will be slightly -- will probably be lower in the second half, given what's
driven the strength we saw in the June quarter, I would expect a lot of focus on execution as we
move into the second half there.
On the flat panel business, I wouldn't expect much to change on that front. It is a 100%
consumer-focused. There's virtually no LCD investment out there and so there's a fair amount of
digestion of that capacity that's still being worked through. So, I don't expect any growth. In fact,
second half might be flat to modestly down in that business.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Patrick Ho, Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Inc. Research with Stifel. Your line is now open.Q - `Patrick Ho, Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Inc. Research `
Thank you very much and congrats on the nice quarter. Just maybe following up CJ's question
about the memory spend and timing. Typically memory is a little bit more metrology biased
versus say logic and foundry being a little more inspection biased.
Is there any difference on the timing of your tool deliveries? Because what I'm trying to get at is
inspection time tends to lead some of the process tools, but metrology may come in conjunction
with process tools. So am I looking at that correctly or are there still lead times in terms of
metrology shipments relative to process tools?
A - `Bren Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
It's a good question. Certainly metrology, certain parts of metrology, like in film measurement
and overlay tends to scale with capacity. But you also have unpatterned inspection that scales
also with capacity.
On the patterned inspection side, it tends to be a little bit more front end in terms of just the
development process itself. So now, I think from a lead time point of view, I don't think the lead
times on the products are all that much different, a few months or so, but generally that's how it
plays out.
Q - `Patrick Ho, Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Inc. Research `
Great. That's helpful. And maybe Bren as a follow-up in terms of the OpEx management. You
probably have gotten some savings over the last several months due to COVID-19 and the
diminishing of travel and things of that nature.
As we get back to a more normalized environment, how do you balance some of the increases
that will come from that versus these attractive OpEx levels that you're achieving today?
A - `Bren Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. It's a good question and we're probably operating right now $10 million to $15 million below
what I considered to be normalized run rates. We certainly wish we could add people faster both
in terms of new heads, but also replacement head count and so this situation has slowed us
down from that perspective.
So I think if you just look at overall spending levels today relative to revenue, we're sizing the
company in that $380 million to $385 million range. I mean ultimately the way we're going to run
the company over the long term is to drive a 1.5x drop through, 1.5x the revenue growth rate
drop through to earnings, and so that implies 40% to 50% incremental operating margins. So for
every incremental dollar of revenue, we're probably going to increase cost $0.10 to $0.15 or so.
So that's the way to keep our incremental gross margins are above 60%. So it's a way to think
about it.
So we're going to look at the opportunities to invest. We always invest in our portfolio, that's why
our market share is almost 5x our nearest competitors. Why we introduce products faster than
our competitors is that we want to make sure we've got the best products out there and we
continue to innovate. And so we're going to look at the opportunities first and foremost and then
size over time consistent with our long-term model.
OperatorYour next question comes from the line of `Timothy Arcuri, UBS Securities, LLC U.S. with UBS. Your line is now open.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, UBS Securities, LLC U.S. `
Thanks a lot. So, Bren I guess that my first question is on the process control revenues (technical
difficulty ) down in June and I know that there was maybe some difficult comps, because of the
Q4 last year. But WFE in the first half of this year is definitely up and your process control
shipments have been down in March and June, and -- but it sounds like you think that you're
going to at least keep up with WFE for the year. So that would imply a pretty big back half of the
year, given what's happened here in the first half.
Can you maybe hold our hand a little bit and tell us why you seem to have lost like a little bit of
share in the first half? And maybe why process control will be up so much? And , maybe help us
gauge how much will it be up in September? Are you talking 10% to 15% Q-on-Q? Thanks, and
then I have a follow-up.
A - `Bren Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
So Tim, we don't really look at WFE spend half-to-half here as I just look at overall expectations
and the way we laid out the year at the beginning of the year. And we're mostly in line with the
plan that we had and against the backdrop of let's say WFE levels that are mid-single digit growth
for the year. I would expect our process control business to outperform the market.
So as I said earlier around, since it's such a big part of our business that we would expect it to be
within our target revenue range for the year or slightly above process control, that's statements
consistent for a process control segment as well.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, UBS Securities, LLC U.S. `
Bren, I guess on that front maybe just --
(Multiple Speakers)
A - `Bren Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
But I would expect it to be up -- I would expect to be up half-to-half.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, UBS Securities, LLC U.S. `
And I guess just on that point can you give us a sense for where you think it'll be in September?
And then I guess my follow-up was you didn't repurchase any shares in the quarter, which is kind
of interesting, why not? Thanks.
A - `Bren Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
So Tim, we guide the overall company and we manage and deploy resources across all of our
businesses to meet our expectations. And so, I don't want to guide the semi PC business, but in
terms of just overall expectations, I'd expect that business to grow mid-single digits versus the
June quarter.
But that being said, if I've got strength in other parts of the company and I may deploy resources
in a different way that helps us sort of manage to our overall numbers. But at the end of the day
what we're really trying to do is drive to our expectations and to continue to ship and support
customers according to their timing. But I would expect it mid-single digit sort of quarter-to-Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Vivek Arya, Banc of America Securities-Merrill Lynch U.S. with Banc of America Securities. Your line is
now open.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Banc of America Securities-Merrill Lynch U.S. `
Thank you for taking my question. I think Rick or Bren you mentioned some signs of foundry
demand perhaps sustaining into next year. I was hoping if you could give us some more color,
because I think consensus seems to be that foundry demand could actually -- possibly decline
next year. And I realize it's early, but from what you see today, is it possible that foundry demand
could actually be positive next year?
A - `Bren Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, it's really early for next year. But what we do see is multiple customers making investments in
foundry. And so far this year, it's been largely a smaller group, so one. And so the expansion of
that is really in the conversations we've been having and the commitment to that is what gives us
the confidence for the second half of the year.
And then the following projects that are coming after that, is why we think it's a good setup for
2021. But obviously there's long time between now and then, but I think the notion that there is
success of the advanced nodes that you have the 5G infrastructure building out. You have a lot
going on in the advanced computing and high performance computing along with the work
toward AI is all very positive for what we're seeing in terms of the continued investment in
foundry and logic, and a lot of that is driven by the additional capability people are getting from
the advanced node.
So that's what gives us confidence, that plus the conversations we're having in the -- our
challenge in meeting some of the slot demands through the rest of the year just to keep up with
what customers are talking about needing and we have pretty good ways of judging their actual
intent.
There are also a number of projects in China that are IoT, RF sensor focused and so, it's made
foundry a higher percentage of the mix overall this year and we would expect some sustainability
in that as we move into next year or so.
To Rick's point, there's a fair amount of diversification really across all end markets. We would
expect automotive and industrial and those areas which sort of fits back with the China statement
or more trailing edge to be better next year and there's enough end-market demand at the
leading edge that's driving incremental customer investment and mitigating reuse and so on. So I
think the setup as we continue this year and to the rest of the year, but also as we move into next
year looks pretty good.
Hi, there was a question earlier, Tim's question on share repurchase. I just want to spend a
second on it. So, we -- as we started the quarter, we focused on overall liquidity and wanted to
see how the market shaped out, given all the unknowns on Covid. So as we progress through the
quarter, we did pause our share repurchase plan.
We did buy back a fair amount of shares in the March quarter and would expect that we'll start
our capital allocation program, we'll begin at this quarter again and at least around share
repurchases and should finish the year in line with our objective of returning at least 70% of the
cash flow we generate to shareholders. So I would expect this year to be above that baseline.Q - `Vivek Arya, Banc of America Securities-Merrill Lynch U.S. `
And if I could ask a quick follow-up. There are two big trends going on, so TSMC appears to be
getting stronger. So there are fewer perhaps high-end, leading edge customers to go after and
then there is also this trend of more sovereign manufacturing, which I understand is probably the
same demand, but maybe scattered across more places that could cause some cyclicality.
How do you think KLA is positioned when there are fewer leading edge foundry customers? And
then if there is more software and manufacturing, does it shift more of the spending towards
your competitors who are exposed more to capacity rather than to technology shifts or yield
improvement? Just how do these two big trends play out for KLA over the next few years? Thank
you.
A - `Bren Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
I wouldn't say there are fewer. So I think if you look at leading edge investment and certainly our
expectation for what we've seen in this business and what we expect going forward is to Rick's
earlier point, is no correlation between any of the announcements or conjecture that's in the
marketplace versus what we're doing internally.
So, we feel very good about the leading edge adoption that's out there and I think that as you
see the end-markets adopt, I think that deploys more capacity and with foundries, and foundries
are providing more of -- more that capacity than that tends to be a higher process control
intensity. And as those customers have to deliver a lot of yielded product to tight market
windows. So, we feel pretty good about that. There's a lot of end demand and there's specific
designs for those, for that demand. And so, I think on the trailing edge side, there is some
startup cost for new projects or maybe inefficiency in the market. But over time, they're building
to specific markets and you might see some trading of capacity there. But overall, I think we feel
pretty good about the leading edge environment particularly end-demand, but also the
technology scaling that's now happening with EUV.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Joe Quatrochi, Wells Fargo with Wells Fargo. Your line is now open.
Q - `Joe Quatrochi, Wells Fargo `
Yes, thanks for taking the question. In the past you've talked about opportunities for higher
metrology intensity and NAND flash at higher layer counts. So I'm just curious, as we go into this
next memory spending cycle, relative to the past cycle, how should we think about just your
opportunity there for peak cycle revenues relative to the last cycle?
A - `Rick Wallace, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, I'll take the first part and then Bren can fill in the number. It is true Joe, I mean what we've
seen and two things, one as the design rules have -- or the design complexity has pushed both in
flash and of course in DRAM, that does create more opportunity.
In some cases the opportunity was already there. What was missing from us was necessarily a
solution. So part of it was having the capability and tools to support the advanced node and the
needs and that's something that we're pretty happy with in terms of as we laid out in the past,
our ability to drive up process control intensity and memory. And we've already seen the first part
of that, so we feel validated in that approach.The other thing that's interesting and we didn't necessarily know is going to happen, but on
DRAM, the introduction of EUV for DRAM driving more defectivity needs and capability and the
usage of that. So there are some really positive trends in terms of driving process control
intensity well above what it was in the past for memory. We really went backwards when the first
move to NAND was first introduced, because they went back a couple design rules and now
they're back moving forward.
We have some product capability, we've learned how to solve some of these problems and
we're engaged closely with customers. So, we feel good about the progression of process
control intensity as the design rules continue to move forward the technology nodes continue --
it's not just design rules as you know, but the challenges in the increased number of layers. So,
Bren from a standpoint of the numbers.
A - `Bren Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I think, we've seen process control share WFE increased, two to three points from the
transition from planar NAND to vertical NAND. To Rick's point, we do have some new products in
the pipeline that, if these products are effective and can be deployed in multiple units across
fabs, give us an opportunity to improve that intensity even higher, both in terms of metrology
with some x-ray capability that we're working on. But also if we can help solve the defectivity
challenge and defects within the stack and locating defects within the depth dimension of the
stack.
So there is no shortage of opportunities and I think we've seen it improved so far and we look to
see a little bit of improvement moving forward. On the DRAM side with the introduction EUV,
there is infrastructure for EUV, whether it's one layer or more you still have to have a reticle
inspector to be able to qualify reticles. You have to qualify blanks and then of course you have to
do print check to validate reticle fidelity in the fab itself. So there's also infrastructure investment
that needs to happen to support EUV in the DRAM side.
Q - `Joe Quatrochi, Wells Fargo `
Thanks for that and then as a follow-up, I just wanted to clarify in your prepared remarks, you
talked about the new U.S. restrictions. Is there a change in that at all relative to what you talked
about last quarter in terms of thinking the prepared remarks you talked about difficult to predict
the near-term dynamics related to those?
A - `Bren Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
Well it was, and we had to go through the exercise as did our peer companies of determining
whether or not we were -- how to be compliant with the regulations. And I think all the peer
companies have gone through that exercise and we've been able to navigate that.
As we said we're going to obviously follow the law, it was just there was some uncertainty as to
what exactly, how to interpret it? So we've had the benefit of working through those details and
feel like we've moved on from that.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Moore with Morgan Stanley. Your line is now open.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Morgan Stanley `Great, thank you. I wonder, if you could talk a little bit about your business in China, it's been
pretty stable as a percentage of revenues. How is that mix shifting between multinationals and
China of sovereign kind of customers? And what are you seeing specifically from China sovereign
customers?
A - `Bren Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
We're seeing growth this year. So, you've got the pieces that are part of PCB and display. So, my
growth statement is more WFE centric, but I would expect it to be up 20% or more. So, I think
WFE levels in China or for the native China customers are probably somewhere in the $9 billion to
$10 billion range. So, it certainly is growth this year and it's more foundry and I would call it
infrastructure centric.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Morgan Stanley `
Okay. Great. Thank you very much.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Atif Malik, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. U.S. with Citi. Your line is now open.
Q - `Atif Malik, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. U.S. `
Hi. Thank you taking my questions and good job in results and guide. Good to see EPC delivering
records in the June quarter, I have a question on 5G. Your 5G smartphone exposure on the PCB
side gives you an edge over your peers based on our work and perhaps a higher stock multiple.
How much of the PCB system and services revenues are 5G exposed on an annual basis?
A - `Bren Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
So when we're looking at it right now, it's about 50% and it feels like the success that we've had
there. As you point out, we've got good exposure, we've got good products to serve those
customers and we feel like that's this is early days for the 5G build out. So we think there's
continued opportunity there as we go forward.
Q - `Atif Malik, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. U.S. `
Great and then Rick there was a question earlier on delay at the U.S. Logic maker. Longer-term I
see you have better exposure to foundry versus that logic maker based on your 10-K. Is that shift
of capacity from the U.S. Logic maker to Taiwan Foundry potentially neutral for your logic
opportunity or a modest positive?
A - `Rick Wallace, Chief Executive Officer `
It's really hard to say. I mean, I think part of what we've experienced over time is that there are
customers that historically we've seen a high correlation between their ability to stay on the
leading edge and their engagement and investment in KLA process control equipment.
So what we're seeing now is people that feel like they're needing to catch up, are investing more
to do that. But I think it's pretty clear, if you want to stay on the leading edge of logic and foundry
and you don't have the ability to fully understand in the learning cycles in the fab, you're going to
struggle.
So anybody that's trying to get into a lead or maintain a lead ends up changing their investmenttechnology, because they need to invest and so, I would say that if it moves it's because that
they've struggled and if they want to be successful then they end up investing more.
So, I think that what's really good for KLA is advanced nodes and the desire people have to
support them. I think, and as you know, in a foundry, especially a multi-product foundry, the other
challenge they have is their multiple process flow. So, it also is a challenge for inspection and
metrology to be able to support so many flows, because all the designs aren't all going through
the same process flow.
So, we generally feel really excited when we see the large number of increasing designs in
advanced nodes. That's what's really been encouraging. The other thing on the sustainability of it,
just the one thing we would have wondered earlier this year was if we were to see utilization in
the fabs of logic and foundry go down and we haven't. So we feel pretty good about the
sustainability of the investments across the Board.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Blayne Curtis, Barclays with Barclays. Your line is now open.
Q - `Blayne Curtis, Barclays `
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking the questions and nice results. Just curious on the service side and you
had delays getting in and actually doing service, you talk about record number. I'm just kind of
curious, if you've mentioned earlier whether you actually are caught up or plan to catch up as you
look into September?
A - `Bren Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, we installed a record number of tools in the June quarter. And so we feel very good about
that on the circumstances and being able to transition to more localized teams to handle the
installation requirements for our tools, and of course, our guidance for the September quarter
contemplates those plans.
Overall, service has done extremely well. Rick talked about utilization rates at foundry and logic.
We've also seen very strong utilization rates in memory which is another indicator of health of the
market. So we feel pretty good about all of that. We think we're going to grow our long-term
growth rate expectation. Annual growth rate expectation for service is 9% to 11% and we think
we'll be in our target range, and because of the scale that we're now able to drive and some of
the investments we've made over the years in China in particular, but also in Taiwan and Korea,
and so on as we're able to drive more economies of scale in our profit structure as well.
So that's -- it's a pretty good situation right now for service. And I think we've adapted pretty well,
and we're trying to leverage some of the remote capability tools that are out there today for us
to position this business from an efficiency and support point of view even better going forward.
A - `Rick Wallace, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I'll just add to that. I mean our service guys are really heroes -- service guys and gals. This last
quarter in this year, they've done an amazing job. When we look at all our customers even back in
Wuhan, during the early stages of this crisis, the only people that were going anywhere inside of
fabs were our service guys and they were there to support our customers.
And so, often with our customers when they don't want to have visitors of any kind, that's the
exception is service because they want to keep these fabs up and running. So, really it's beenremarkable to see the resiliency of that and as Bren said, the long-term trend looks good. And
this year, we feel really good about services ability to hit the targets we set out pre-COVID for
them. So we feel really good about that.
Q - `Blayne Curtis, Barclays `
Thanks. And I just want to ask on the recovery you're targeting in memory, just kind of curious on
the DRAM side it was always going to be late year. I was just curious if that part of any of the
recovery you're targeting?
A - `Bren Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
I think DRAM is a little bit, I think flash is better. And as I said earlier, I think flash is better in the
second half of the year. And that DRAM is probably stronger in the first half of the year overall.
But I mean again that can move around a little bit, but that's how we see it right now.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Quinn Bolton, Needham & Co. with Needham & Company. Your line is now open.
Q - `Quinn Bolton, Needham & Co. `
Yes, thanks for letting me ask a question. Just wanted to come back to the China business.
Obviously, you haven't seen a major impact from the commerce department actions. But
wondering if you've seen any increased threat of de-Americanization of equipment in China,
especially from the domestic suppliers and probably more on the metrology side than the
inspection side of your business where I think you guys are pretty well entrenched?
A - `Rick Wallace, Chief Executive Officer `
So Quinn. This Rick, I think since KLA started doing business internationally when I've been in the
company back in Japan and whatever, the late 80s, there have always been attempts by our
customers in different regions to have supply base. So, there's never been a lack of interest and
motivation, that happened in Japan of course, that happened in Korea, not quite as much in
Taiwan, but definitely happened in China.
So, for sure there is interest and desire to have their own capability. But like as you know, this
business, that's the impetus on us is to keep driving performance capability and making sure
we're competitive so, that we're more than competitive, we're compelling, so that we win that
business. But yes, of course is there is interest in trying to have alternatives other than U.S.
But I think, the practical business of running semiconductors as you've got to be competitive on a
worldwide basis. And so you've got to have the capabilities to compete worldwide. And there's
always been our belief is we have to win overall, because any opportunity, any region has to go
with another solution they're going to do it. So, we don't see that as particularly different than it's
been in the past.
Q - `Quinn Bolton, Needham & Co. `
Thanks. And a quick follow-up for Bren, just a nice gross margin guide in September. Wondering if
there are any lingering COVID-19 costs that are still affecting that the gross margin possibly in the
freight and logistics, shipping would be one area?
A - `Bren Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `Yes, I don't think it'll -- there are and I don't think it'll change in the September quarter and
probably not in the December quarter. So there is a bit of a headwind there, about 40 basis
points last quarter and so the revenue is up a little bit. So similar impact.
Well this quarter in, already factored in the margin guidance. So yes, I think as we start to
normalize whenever that might be, we'll start to -- we'll get a tailwind from increasing competition
in the freight market overall. But yes inbound freight, costs have gone up there.
Operator
(Operator Instructions). Your next question comes from the line of `Sidney Ho, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. U.S. with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Q - `Sidney Ho, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. U.S. `
Great. Thanks. You talk about this setup is pretty good for next year foundry and logic. Is it mostly
driven by the 5 nanometer Ram? Are you expecting any contribution from 3 nanometer
development?
I know it's still early, but maybe broadly speaking, do you have a view when you're going to start
seeing the revenue related to 3 nanometers?
A - `Rick Wallace, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, both for sure. We'll see. I mean as you know, these things go in cycles of the early work and
then you get the build-out. And we also have some of the -- as Bren mentioned earlier, we have a
fair amount of logic that's trailing that continues to be the investment. But on the leading edge,
sure we'll see you early and already in those conversations about that early capability and that will
be of course our leading edge tools.
Not as many early on but that's really in the debugging phase of that and I would expect it to
follow on there. I would expect broader levels of investment into the first half of next year, the
breadth that we talked about this year, we expect to see continuation about it into next year. So a
lot of compelling opportunities for a number of players in the foundry and logic space.
Q - `Sidney Ho, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. U.S. `
Great. So maybe my follow-up -- follow up question. Historically, you see process control strength
early in the process and then it fades once the product are involved in production. Do you expect
this pattern to continue or do you see more sustainable strength through tech transitions going
forward, given what you talked about earlier about the dynamics happening in the memory
market?
A - `Bren Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
It really, it is true. I mean that trend is true. It's especially true when there's fewer -- there's less
innovation. I think the difference now on the leading edge is what EUV has done is brought back
scaling and so that was really more pronounced in a period where we had that long gap, where
there was there was no EUV, there was not another lithography technology for several years. And
so that really exacerbated that trend.
So, the two other factors now you've got additional designs which is kind of a surprise from
where maybe the world was at while ago. And then you have multiple players trying to, so thephase of that is different where you have different players trying to cut in. And since there's a
leader and then the other folks are behind, that gives another wave at a different location.
So I think the net of all that is it tends to be more sustainable, plus we have more products that
are more tied to production. An example will be overlay, which is much more correlated to
production in the number of layers that get measured in overlay doesn't really decrease that
much now, given the challenges. So you don't have that same reduced sampling and reduced the
number of tools in some of these product areas as we might have had in the past.
A - `Kevin Kessel, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Operator, I think we have time for one last question.
Operator
Yes, sir. We have a question from `Weston Twigg, KeyBanc Capital Markets with KeyBanc Capital Markets. Your line is now
open.
Q - `Weston Twigg, KeyBanc Capital Markets `
Hey, thanks for taking my question. I just -- there's something you said earlier that really
resonated with me for KLA, which is more product (inaudible) helps, so it intuitively makes sense
of a foundry side. You see more chips, more AI special. There's 5G chips going into different
things that are all sort of custom. Can you help us think about how that provides uplift for KLA
overall over the next few years?
A - `Bren Higgins, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, sure. I mean think about the worst case scenario for us. Is there one device made by one
person right and they and they dial that process in and they lock it in for three years and they
don't change anything, right? That would be the worst case, because as you know, what they
really want to do is dial on the process, get everything under control and have it be just ramp and
then not pay any attention. Let the thing run, have all the CPKs in line.
So the other end of that continuum is lots of process designs. What's interesting about foundry is
they don't force one process. In fact part of their selling proposition is you have multiple process
flows through a foundry. So if you look, you could probably go do this and look at TSMC, you can
pick tons of different process flows, which that means is the large number of change.
The other thing that we've seen, the reverse trend in the last few years is you have hyperscalers,
data center people designing their own chips, because they want to have an advantage in their
own design. So we have a lot of customers, we have -- our customer traditionally is far greater
than it used to be which is why there's so many designs happening at advanced nodes, when the
view was at some point that it was going to keep restricting the number of designs. That's not
what's happened.
So that creates more and more flow of process and change and the need to manage that is all
upside. So we're really excited when we started seeing the number of relevant designs, become
more and more successful because that's a factor that favors process control in order for people
to be successful at producing those. Does that make sense? I think he's gone.
A - `Kevin Kessel, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Okay, Charlie.Operator
Yes, sir. We have no further questions at this time. I will now turn the call over back to you.
A - `Kevin Kessel, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Okay, we wanted to thank everybody for their time and interest and this concludes the call.
Charlie, please provide final instructions.
Operator
Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for
participating. You may now disconnect.