Q4 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good afternoon. My name is Leo, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I'd
like to Welcome everyone to the KLA Corporation June Quarter 2022 Earnings Conference Call
and Webcast. All participant lines have been placed in a listen-only mode to prevent any
background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
I'll now turn the call over to `Kevin Kessel, Vice President of Investor Relations and Market Analytics, Vice President of Investor Relations and Market
Analytics. Please go ahead.
`Kevin Kessel, Vice President of Investor Relations and Market Analytics `
Thank you, and welcome to KLA's Fiscal Q4 2022 Quarterly Earnings Call to discuss the results of
the June quarter and the outlook for the September quarter. Joining me today is `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer,
Our Chief Executive Officer; and `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Financial Officer.
During this call, we will discuss our results released today after the market closed. You can find
the press release, shareholder letter, slide deck, and infographic on the KLA IR section of our
website. Today's discussion is presented on a non-GAAP financial basis unless otherwise
specified. Whenever references are made to full-year business performance, they are on a
calendar year references. A detailed reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP results is in the earnings
materials posted on our website. Our IR website also contains future investor events as well as
presentations, corporate governance information, and links to our SEC filings, including our most
recent Annual Report and quarterly reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q.
Our comments today are subject to risks and uncertainties reflected in the risk factor disclosure in
our SEC filings. Any forward-looking statements including those we make on the call today are
subject to those risks and KLA cannot guarantee those forward-looking statements will come
true. Our actual results may differ significantly from those projected in our forward-looking
statements. Our CEO, `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer will begin the call with some brief comments on our recent
June quarter results, before discussing our view of the semiconductor industry demand
environment and then a few June quarter highlights. `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, our CFO will conclude withI'd like to now turn the call over to our CEO, `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer. Rick?
`Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you all for joining us today. I'd like to begin with a few comments about the quarter. First,
KLA continues to benefit from multiple growth drivers reflected in our June quarter results.
Specifically for this quarter, our revenue of $2.5 billion was at the top end of our guidance range
and up 29% year-over-year and 9% sequentially.
GAAP EPS was $5.40 and non-GAAP EPS was $5.81, both at the top end of our guidance range.
The talented global teams at KLA have remained focused on responding to evolving customer
needs and strategically navigating supply chain challenges. They are steadfast in their
commitment to creating value for our customers, partners, and shareholders. Our teams continue
to follow the KLA operating model as a guide to meet our challenges and benefit from the
opportunities of an evolving market. Driving this performance, strong customer demand across
major product groups, macroeconomic uncertainty, and the resulting effects of consumer
demand are areas we are monitoring closely. As our customers have indicated some end
markets specifically PCs and mobile devices, have softened over the past few months, and we
have seen memory pricing in both segments weaken. While we have elevated concerns, we
continue to see strong demand beyond our ability to supply from our customers with no material
change in our shipments profile beyond the normal facility readiness issues and customers
aligning tool deliveries with their production.
In assessing the full CY '22 WFE outlook, we have evaluated the persistent supply chain
challenges and recently announced CapEx adjustment in the memory category. With this in mind,
KLA's outlook for WFE growth in '22 has tempered. Bren will expand more on the details when he
discusses the outlook. We still see high single-digit WFE growth in calendar '22 and are confident
in our ability to deliver relative WFE outperformance. We have supply chain challenges abate[ph]
this would be an additional upside.
Process control is one of the fastest growing segments of the overall WFE market and as the
market leader, KLA is in an enviable position amidst the current demand landscape. We see
continued investment in technology at the leading edge and increased demand for legacy nodes.
We also see growth in technology categories including advanced packaging. These factors all
support steady long-term growth for the WFE category. We attribute KLA's consistent and
strengthening market leadership to our focus on investing in innovation at a high level to drive
differentiation through a unique portfolio of products and technologies that address the most
critical process control challenges. Our technologies help our customers drive their growth
strategy.
I'd like to now briefly summarize a few quarterly highlights. First, KLA continues to drive strong
relative outperformance versus peers. In the foundry logic, simultaneous investment across
multiple nodes remains a tailwind. In memory, even when some customers' investment signaled a
slow, demand diversification remains strong across multiple other industries. Second, our wafer
inspection business again delivered impressive results in the June quarter as revenues grew 20%
sequentially and 49% year-over-year. Third, KLA delivered a record quarterly revenue from our
Electronics, Packaging and Components Business in the June quarter. Fourth, the KLA service
business surpassed the $0.5 billion quarterly revenue level for the first time as revenue was $512
million, up 15% year-over-year.
Finally, the June quarter was another exceptional period from the perspective of free cash flow
and capital returns. We generated quarterly free cash flow of $746 million, amounting to 23%increase in our quarterly dividend level. Additionally, we increased our long-term targeted capital
returns to 85% of free cash flow. We remain focused on returning capital to shareholders versus -
- via our dividend and stock repurchase programs. Also this quarter, we introduced our new long-
term revenue growth targets and financial model for 2026 at our June 16, 2022, Investor Day in
New York City. KLA's new 9% to 11% revenue growth objectives through '26 features strong
relative growth in each of our major business lines over that period. Our long-term model
assumes a baseline semiconductor industry growth CAGR of 6% to 7% through 2026, with many
forecasts today for the semiconductor market to exceed $1 trillion by '23.
In summary, KLA's June quarter results once again demonstrate sustainable outperformance. Our
consistent execution against various challenges in the marketplace both in terms of
macroeconomic uncertainty and in addressing persistent supply chain issues highlights the
resiliency of the KLA operating model, the dedication of our global teams, and our commitment
to assertive capital allocation and delivering long-term value to our stakeholders.
Chief Financial Officer, `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will now go through our June quarter financial highlights and
outlook. Bren?
`Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Rick. As Rick just said, KLA's June quarter results reinforce the success of our
execution and strong market position. Revenue was near $2.5 billion, non-GAAP gross margin was
62.4% and non-GAAP diluted EPS and GAAP EPS were $5.81 and $5.40 respectively.
Non-GAAP operating expenses were $514 million, below our expectation of $525 million, mostly
due to the timing of new employees joining versus our plan. In addition, we also realized a cost
benefit from the strong US dollar impact resulting from our global footprint. Total operating
expenses comprised $297 million in R&D and $217 million in SG&A. Given the strong demand
backdrop, rapid expansion over the last couple of years, and our revenue expectations going
forward, we expect to continue our important investment in our global infrastructure and systems
to scale the leverageable KLA operating model to facilitate growth. Our investments include new
product development programs and volume-dependent resources to support our business
expansion as we position the company to execute against our long-term structural growth thesis.
As a result, we expect operating expenses to be approximately $530 million in the September
quarter, and we forecast quarterly operating expenses to continue to trend higher over the
balance of 2022 to support our sequential revenue growth expectations.
We will size the Company based on our target operating model, which delivers 40% to 50%
incremental non-GAAP operating margin leverage on revenue growth over a normalized time
horizon. Non-GAAP operating margin was strong at 41.8%, almost 1 point higher than the
guidance midpoint implies. Other income and expense net was $22 million, below the guidance
of $43 million, with the positive variance from guidance reflecting a gain on a strategic investment
that was transacted in the quarter, offset by a recurring mark-to-market adjustment of supply
investment.
For the September quarter, we forecast it at approximately $75 million to reflect the impact of the
new debt issuance. Quarterly effective tax rate was 14.8% higher than the 13.5% guidance due
principally to the equity market impact on deferred compensation programs. At the guided rate,
non-GAAP earnings per share would have been $0.09 higher at $5.90. We continue to guide
13.5% with the long-term tax planning rate. Non-GAAP net income was $867 million, GAAP net
income was $805 million, cash flow from operations was $819 million, and free cash flow was
$746 million, resulting in a free cash flow conversion of 86% and a free cash flow margin of 30%.The breakdown of revenues by reportable segments and end markets and major products and
regions can be found within the shareholder letter and slides.
Moving to the balance sheet where we saw a lot of activity in this past quarter. KLA ended the
quarter with $2.7 billion in total cash, debt of $6.7 billion, and a flexible and attractive bond
maturity profile supported by strong investment grade ratings from all three agencies. In June,
S&P upgraded KLA one notch to A minus, citing improved scale and outlook for further profitable
growth. Earlier in June, we issued $3 billion of new debt and announced the completion of a
tender offer for $500 million of senior notes due 2024. These actions reinforce that KLA
maintains active and diligent oversight of our cost of capital, an awareness of the impact on
shareholder value of the appropriate capital structure for our business, and productive capital
allocation.
As demonstrated by the new calendar 2026 financial targets and the capital return actions
announced at our recent Investor Day, KLA has confidence in our business over the long term and
is committed to a consistent strategy of cash returns that includes both dividend growth and
increasing share repurchases. Consistent with this, we increased our long-term capital returns
target as mentioned earlier. Over the last 12 months, KLA has returned $5.5 billion to
shareholders, including $4.9 billion in share repurchases and $639 million in dividends paid.
Turning to our outlook, we have adjusted our overall WFE outlook for calendar '22 to reflect
persistent supply chain challenges that are gating shipments and revenue recognition for many of
our peers. We now expect the WFE market to grow in the high single digits to approximately $95
billion in 2022, off a baseline of roughly $87 billion in calendar 2021. This outlook reflects the
continued broad-based strength of demand across customer segments. While we work hard to
manage capacity at KLA and with our suppliers, supply chain shortages continue to constrain our
ability to meet customer demand. While our supplier engagement strategy that we discussed at
our Investor Day has been validated through this cycle, supplier visibility remains challenging and
has not improved over the past three months.
As indicated in the last couple of quarters, we continue to expect sequential growth through this
calendar year and expect KLA's total revenue growth to meet or exceed the low 20% range, with
semiconductor process control systems growing several points faster than the company average.
Finally, we expect demand to continue exceeding supply during the calendar year's second half.
KLA is in a position to deliver another year of sustainable outperformance in our Semi Pc business
which should translate to strong relative growth overall.
Looking ahead, as indicated earlier, we are concerned with the macroeconomic environment and
how it may affect demand for our customers' products and their capacity plans as we move into
calendar 2023. To date, the pressure from customers to deliver remains high and is driving our
expectations for sequential growth through calendar 2022. We are encouraged by the
diversification and sustainability of our current demand profile and the company's operational
execution. We are strategically adding capacity across our global manufacturing footprint to
support our customers' growing process control requirements, our near-term outlook and our
long-term through cycle growth thesis.
Our September quarter guidance is as follows. Total revenue is expected to be in a range of $2.6
billion plus or minus $125 million. Foundry logic is forecasted to be approximately 64%, and
memory is expected to be around 36% of Semi PC systems revenue. In memory, DRAM is
expected to be about 40% of the segment mix and NAND 60%. We forecast non-GAAP gross
margin to be in a range of 62% to 64%. Finally, GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in a range of$5.28 to $6.38, and non-GAAP diluted EPS in a range of $5.70 to $6.80. The EPS guidance is
based on a fully diluted share count of approximately 143 million shares.
In conclusion, despite the macro and supply chain headwinds, we see the secular trends driving
semiconductor growth and investments in WFE as both durable and compelling over the long run.
Broad-based customer demand and simultaneous investments supporting growing
semiconductor content across technology nodes remain important trends in our industry. These
are long-term secular growth drivers for the industry, as technology investment and the
resumption of scaling reflects the value that semiconductors and our industry have in lowering
cost for our customers and enabling a broader application universe for semiconductor-based
technology across multiple end-markets.
When it comes to KLA, considering our track record of execution and the power of our portfolio,
we have confidence in our ability to continue to deliver sustainable outperformance throughout
changing economic periods. As we look at the leading indicators for our business, including our
backlog and sales funnel visibility, we continue to invest in expanding our business infrastructure
and the required capabilities to support our outlook, and maintain our product development
investments to enable industry growth, and support our customers' multi-year investment plans.
This provides an element of stability that shores up our confidence in the demand outlook for the
future. These factors, combined with the KLA Operating Model that guides our execution,
position us to continue outperforming our industry as we execute our strategic objectives. These
objectives fuel our growth, reliable operational excellence, and differentiation across an
increasingly diverse product and services offering. They are also the foundation for our sustained
technology leadership, wide competitive moat, industry-leading financial performance, long-
standing track record of robust free cash flow generation, and consistent and growing capital
returns to shareholders.
That concludes our prepared remarks. I'll turn the call back over to Kevin to begin the Q&A.
Kevin?
`Kevin Kessel, Vice President of Investor Relations and Market Analytics `
Thank you, Bren. We are ready to queue for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) We'll take our first question from `Harlan Sur, Analyst, JP Morgan of JP Morgan.
Q - `Harlan Sur, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Hey, good afternoon, guys. Congratulations on the solid results and quarterly execution. As lead
times are quite long right, do you guys have good visibility into next year and I think even in some
cases 2024? You highlighted some of the demand headwinds in your prepared remarks. And also
maybe some of the early signals from our customers on their sort of conservative CapEx
spending plans going forward. I know you're not seeing anything meaningful in terms of near-to-
mid-term shipment plans. But given your customers are all booking into next year, have you guys
seen any changes in longer-term orders as a result of your customers' increasingly negative
views on demand for next year?
A - `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer `Yes, Harlan. Thanks for the comments and the question. I would say that certainly in the near
term, we've seen no changes from our customers. In fact, the pressure is as high today as it was
three months ago. And our adjustments to the near-term WFE were really related to some of the
challenges that a lot of our peer companies are facing in terms of their ability to either ship tools
or recognize revenue and that would have an impact on WFE, given the expectations for the
second half -- in terms of growth in the second half versus the first half.
It's too early for us to call '23 certainly we're monitoring, what we see there. As we think about
our planning and as we move into -- as we move outside of this year from -- at least from where
we sit today, we see sustainability in our output levels as we move into the first part of '23. Now,
we'll have to watch and see what our customers end up doing and particularly with some of the
challenges in the memory space and what that might deem. But at least from where we sit today,
we see no real churn in the backlog and in expectations in terms of delivery timing.
A - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Even to add to that Harlan, one of the things we have seen because obviously, we've been
talking to customers recently and they're -- they know we're aware of some of the talk, that
they're telling us basically two things. One, keep our slots, and two, if somebody else's spot[ph]
opens up, could you please give it to us. So we're seeing for process control feel like we're
probably a little bit in a different position than the process (inaudible)
Q - `Harlan Sur, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Great. And in the event of a WFE decline next year, you've got several positive buffers, right. And
I feel like one of the biggest ones is that your services business, historically does not decline
during a downturn. So, if I look over the past 20 years, I think there has only been one year that
your services business has been down and then more near-term, I think over the past four
downturns, the KLA team has actually grown its services business in all four of those downturns.
So outside of the stable annuity-like subscription and service contracts and I know you guys talked
about expansion on services opportunities on legacy nodes, like what else has allowed the team
to grow its services business in periods where WFE is spending is weak? What's the historical
track record on the EPC services business during downturns?
A - `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So kind of two questions, you through in EPC and one at WFE[ph]. Let me start with the process
control one. Often what we've seen historically in downturns is customers don't want to get
productivity, and one of the ways they do that is they focus heavily on yield improvement or
process stability. So we actually see utilization stay high on the services in order to keep the tools
capable. And sometimes, they will actually -- put some of their limited budgets toward upgrading
the installed base.
In terms of EPC, obviously, we've not really been through a cycle with that. So it's a little bit
second-hand knowledge. But it depends on the segment that they're in terms of. But as you
know as a percent of our overall business, that will not change the dynamic that we see overall
for our services.
Q - `Harlan Sur, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Right. Should we have some headwinds going into next year?
A - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `The only other thing I'd add Harlan is that, we're seeing investment across multiple nodes, and so
from a leading-edge point of view, certainly the complexity of the tools that are going into
support those markets, the drivers of those markets, particularly around the data center, and
high-performance computing will drive our customers to -- given how they buy process control to
want to keep these tools up and use them as they're trying to navigate through these technology
transitions. And so that's an important aspect of the value that we add.
So even if they're pulling back on some of the capacity investments they might be making,
they're still investing in R&D and ramping facilities. And the wafer start goals within a particular
timeframe may just change. If you think about, within memory or even within some of the trailing
edge areas, those areas are areas where process control intensity tends to be a little bit lower.
And so I think just in terms of how we see the investment play out, those are areas that we're
less exposed to. Don't think that they would impact the business to the degree that they might
impact other more capacity-centric players.
Q - `Harlan Sur, Analyst, JP Morgan `
No. Great. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from Krish Sankar of Cowen. Your line is open.
Q - `Rob Mertens, Analyst, Cowen & Co., LLC `
Hi, this is Bob Mertens on for Krish. Thanks for taking my questions. My first question was just
around if you could provide any color on the potential impact of the business in terms of
shipments to China if there were any sort of restrictions what this might look like whether tool
specific or based on tax-based sub-40-nanometer shipments. Just sort of how you're thinking
about that? And then I have one follow-up.
A - `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, specific to that question, and of course, there was some -- I know some of our peers have
gotten this question as well. But we did receive a notification from the US government about
licensing requirements for China related to sub-40 nanometer development and production. Of
course, we'll continue to engage with the government to have an active dialog and we fully
comply with all applicable laws and guidance here. I would say that given the lead time and timing
unpredictability of new licenses, that this has no effect on our guidance for the upcoming quarter
or comments on the remainder of '22. And I would say, look at the funnel over the next 12 months
given, where investment is happening, and what we expect. We don't see any material impact to
our business from this new requirement. So I don't want to speculate on what else could happen,
but based on what we know today and what we've been asked that's mostly what I have said on
the comment.
Q - `Rob Mertens, Analyst, Cowen & Co., LLC `
Okay, that's helpful. And then just real quick, have you provided in the past, the breakdown
between domestic and international shipments to China? If I remember correctly, maybe you
mentioned domestic customers were more skewed towards smaller foundry players. Is that a fair
assumption?
A - `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer `Yes, that's still true. The multinational activity in China is more mature, and so most of our
business is -- in China tends to be native China as it relates to semiconductor process control. So
within semiconductor process control systems, about 25% or so of our shipments are to China.
And overall, for the whole company, as you include service and include other parts of the
company and EPC and so on, you end up closer to -- this last quarter was 29%. So most of the
business is there and most of it is across multiple projects, there's a lot of projects they tend to
be more foundry logic. You also have an investment in infrastructure related to reticle
infrastructure and wafer infrastructure. And so, there is investments that are happening there and
we have products to serve those parts of the market as well.
Q - `Rob Mertens, Analyst, Cowen & Co., LLC `
Great. Thank you. That's all for me.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Joe Quatrochi, Analyst, Wells Fargo of Wells Fargo.
Q - `Joe Quatrochi, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Yeah, thanks for taking the question. I was wondering if you -- Bren you go through kind of puts
and takes on gross margin this quarter. And how we should think about the cost pass-through this
quarter and what's embedded in the guidance?
A - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Pretty much played out the way we expected. We had more EPC revenue quarter-to-
quarter, as we had a record quarter on EPC, and that was a little diluted from a mixed point of
view, Certainly, the challenges related to supply chain and what that means in terms of factory
efficiency is also a bit of a drag on our margins. But we had modeled that in for the most part,
and I think the guidance midpoint was 62.5$ and we were at 62.4%, so pretty much as we had
expected.
As we look at the September quarter, most of the growth is coming from our -- in fact, all the
growth and then a little bit, because I would expect EPC to be down some quarter-on-quarter is
coming from Semi Pc, it's a richer mix. And so, we'll see that go up about 50 basis points or so
with the midpoint. We are seeing pressure from cost increase both in terms of parts, but also in
terms of freight and logistics and I think that's taking away some of the -- what you would expect
to see in terms of incremental leverage in expanding revenue environment like we're in. So it's
offsetting some of those benefits, but at the end of the day, we felt like we'd be operating
somewhere around 63% through this year and that's been the guidance that we've been giving
and for the most part in line with that.
Q - `Joe Quatrochi, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Great. That's very helpful. And then maybe I missed it, but what was the mix of DRAM versus
NAND for this quarter? I know your gated for the September quarter guide.
A - `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. So 45% was memory and the mix was two-thirds DRAM.
Q - `Joe Quatrochi, Analyst, Wells Fargo `Perfect. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question is from `Patrick Ho, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Inc. of Stifel.
Q - `Patrick Ho, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Inc. `
Thank you very much and congrats on the nice quarter. Rick, maybe first off, in terms of leading-
edge versus trailing-edge foundry logic, obviously I think a lot of your leading-edge customers
are still powering through with your investment plan. It's more the question of the timing of when
they can get tools. Can you characterize what you're seeing on the trailing edge given that there
is a lot of noise around that? Have you seen any changes in that marketplace or our investment
plans, is that device marketplace still on track on a going-forward basis?
A - `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. And, yes, you're right, the leading-edge guys are continuing and we don't expect in our
conversations with them, we don't expect any change in that. In terms of the trailing edge, it's not
really been a big part of our business. And as we look forward, we're still struggling with demand
-- with supply for some of that. And so actually the conversations we've been having -- have been
more about them asking if they could accelerate deliveries than changing the profile. So given the
conversations we've had and their desire to upgrade their facilities, it's not really a change in our
profile, it may soften but how is it? Yes, in fact, if anything -- a comment I made earlier, people
are asking if spots open up could they get access to them and that's really been more of the
conversation that we've been having because some of the products that they need, especially in
the trailing edge tend to be BBP[ph] kind of oriented products where we have tremendous
demand.
A - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Patrick, the one thing I'd add is about 80% of the revenue tends to be leading edge. So
where we are selling to the trailing edge, we do have customers that are strategically trying to in-
source more so they're making more investments and longer-term investments. And as
specifications for end products are changing that could change process control requirements, But
generally, if they're just expanding capacity to run parts that they've been running for a long time
that are just inflecting as a result of the strong demand environment, you don't see real
significant changes in process control intensity, they just add their process control equipment as
they're expanding the wafer starts in a particular facility. So that drives the process control
intensity that's fairly light. Now over time, that's -- I think what's happening in the end markets is
creating some opportunities for us. But it is less of an impact in terms of the financial or the
revenue contribution from those customers to KLA. It's revenue and it's profitable revenue given
that we're selling older platforms or platforms that we've been able to extend into those
markets. But the big driver for our business is much more around leading edge than what we're
seeing in the trailing edge.
Q - `Patrick Ho, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Inc. `
Great. That's really helpful. And Bren, maybe as a quick follow-up question for you. You guys have
done a really good job of managing through the supply chain issue that the industry and the
ecosystem have seen. The costs are obviously elevated whether it's freight or logistics, the
movement of components and things of that nature. How do you look at the cost environmentover the next several quarters? If there is something that we're just going to have to assume at
least in the rest of '22 and possibly into '23?
A - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, it's a good question. And of course, everything is more expensive and so we're seeing that
flow through. Earlier in prior quarters maybe last quarter, the quarter before, I talked about this
year expecting to see a 100 basis point kind of impact, one point or so from incremental cost
increase, I think if we add freight into it, it's probably a little bit higher than that. And so we are
seeing that play through. Generally, when prices go up, they don't necessarily go down and so
we're not really planning on it. And we'll have to -- as I said at Investor Day, there is work for us to
do in terms of how we think about doing this overall. Our products generally, we are a value cell
and so we think about the returns our customers are getting from our products and we try to
share the value of that return. And part of our new capability cadence in terms of how we offer
that to the market, managing not only new capability from a competitive point of view is
important to that, but also what it means to financial model in terms of an opportunity for us to
reassess the cost situation in a particular tool and how cost of ownership plays out in terms of the
improvements that we're operating and how we will share that.
So we're being opportunistic where we can, certainly, we're not benefiting from the revenue
expansion from a scale point of view. And so, we're not giving discounts related purely to volume
to the extent that we have in the past. And so we're resetting some of that with our customers.
But in general, I think it's much more about the value offering and how things -- kind of how things
are priced over time.
Q - `Patrick Ho, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Inc. `
Great. Thank you again.
Operator
We'll take our next question from `Atif Malik, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. of Citi.
Q - `Atif Malik, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Hi, thank you for taking my question. I have a question on CHIPS Act, and I understand it's early. It
looks like equipment companies might be able to get money to expand manufacturing of
equipment in the US with priority going first to companies that already manufacture in the US. And
I understand you guys have manufacturing both inside the US and outside. How would this change
if at all your long-term manufacturing strategy?
A - `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks for the question. It doesn't really change our strategy. We're not going to make decisions
based on that, we're going to make decisions as we always have based on where it makes the
most sense for us to build the products, support our customers where we can get the talent and
where we can have the supply chain that we need. So it will not impact our decision.
A - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
You also have to remember that Atif, that we're fairly asset-light. So to the extent that we're
building or expanding our facilities anywhere, it's really about space more than anything and
some equipment. So it isn't, it's difficult to our customers in terms of significant billions of dollars
investments in a production facility. So to Rick's point, it's much more about the operationalmotives that we have in terms of why we build, what we build, where? And incentives, whether
they come in the form of grants, they come in the form of taxes are secondary, obviously, we
always optimize for wherever we are. But the primary motive is very operational for us.
Q - `Atif Malik, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Great. And as my follow-up. Bren, 90 days ago, you were talking about EPC system growing 20%
for the year, and understand June was a record quarter. Are you still looking at 20% growth for
the EPC systems for the full year? And how are you -- what are you seeing in the mobile segment
versus the Auto segment of that end market?
A - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. No, it's a great question. Auto continues to be strong, auto and power. But we have seen
some pressure, particularly in the PCB part of the business driven by the softness in the mobile
market. I would expect EPC systems to be in the mid-teens in terms of growth this year, a little bit
stronger in the second half versus the first half, just as the whole company is a little bit stronger.
But yeah, it's mostly been -- we've seen strength and improvement in SBTF[ph] or especially,
semiconductor given its exposure to automotive and the power. But we've seen some softness
on the PCB side. So, net-net, still nice growth mid-teens growth, but not 20%.
Q - `Atif Malik, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
(Operator Instructions) We'll take our final question from `Vedvati Shrotre, Analyst, Jefferies of Jefferies.
Q - `Vedvati Shrotre, Analyst, Jefferies
Hi, thanks for taking my question. I just wanted to go back on something that was asked earlier.
So you mentioned that your customers are sort of looking for slots in case any opens up. So can
you help me understand how that works? So if you get pushed out from your customer, does that
mean that slot is sort of closed and the customer has to go back in the line. Is that a right
interpretation?
A - `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. So I think our customers have the same kind of question you do. It doesn't really work that
way. I mean what they really want to do is move up the priority. But as we keep explaining to them
we have far more demand than we have supply and while we're working hard to expand it. So it's
just the question, can we get things done sooner, and that's really what they're asking is, can you
help? But my point is that is for many customers the way they are approaching this, they're
hopeful that this will give them a chance to get some of the products that are pretty far out in
delivery.
So that's kind of the way to think about it. It's not really exactly the same. We do have allocations
for people, but there just are no free slots. So if somebody were to drop out of the queue, the
next person would just move up in terms of the way that would work. So it's not people aren't
going to jump ahead in the line.
Q - `Vedvati Shrotre, Analyst, JefferiesRight. And so if I understand correctly. So if -- in case, (inaudible) not a cancellation. Does that
necessarily open up a slot or is push-out kind of different from..
A - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
So if somebody had at December slot right now and they said, we don't need that until June, the
next person in line in December would get that slot. And they would be fit in somewhere in June.
And there is a likely our customers that have slots in June that would love to have a slot in
December. So given the lead times on some of our products. So that's the natural churn you see,
and a lot of it is tied to sometimes facilities and facility readiness. It also can be tied to whether
they receive certain tools from other customers as they're setting up for other suppliers, as
they're setting up their production lines.
So you always see a little bit of movement like that. But to Rick's point, we're under-serving the
level of demand we have. And so customers are having to get in line, a long way out in a lot of
cases. And so the ability to satisfy that demand earlier would be an opportunity for a lot of our
customers that they can certainly want to take advantage of, given the strength of the demand
that they have seen but also the desire for these products and our constraints around them.
Q - `Vedvati Shrotre, Analyst, Jefferies
Got it. Thank you very much. It's very helpful.
A - `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. And thank you, everyone, for joining us. We know how busy the day it is today in terms
of earnings. So I appreciate your time and interest. With that, I will turn the call back over to Leo to
close it.
Operator
This concludes the KLA Corporation June Quarter 2022 Earnings Call and Webcast. Please
disconnect your lines at this time. And have a wonderful day.