Q4 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good afternoon. My name is David and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I
would like to welcome everyone to the KLA Corporation June Quarter 2024 Earnings Conference
Call and Webcast.
All participants have been placed on a listen-only mode to prevent any background noise. After
the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions).
Please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up. (Operator Instructions). Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to `Kevin Kessel, Vice President, Investor Relations, Vice President of Investor Relations and Market
Analytics. Please go ahead.
`Kevin Kessel, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Welcome to our earnings call to discuss the June 2024 results and the September quarter
outlook. I am joined by our CEO, `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer; and our CFO, `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. We will discuss today's
results released after the market close and available at ir.kla.com, along with supplemental
materials.
Today's discussion and metrics are presented on a non-GAAP financial basis unless otherwise
specified. All full year references are to calendar years. The earnings materials contain a detailed
reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP results. KLA's IR website also contains future investor events,
presentations, corporate governance information, and links to our SEC filings, including our most
recent Annual Report and quarterly reports on forms 10-K and 10-Q.Our comments today are subject to risks and uncertainties reflected in the disclosure of Risk
Factors in our SEC filings. Any forward-looking statements, including those we make on the call
today, are also subject to those risks, and KLA cannot guarantee those forward-looking
statements will come true. Our actual results may differ significantly from those projected in our
forward-looking statements.
Rick will begin the call with some introductory comments, followed by Bren with additional
financial highlights, including our outlook.
Let me turn the call over to our CEO, `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer. Rick?
`Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Kevin.
I will cover a few business highlights for this quarter. KLA's June quarter revenue, gross margin,
and EPS, were all above their respective guidance midpoints. The quarter played out mostly as
expected, with strong customer demand and solid company execution. We continue to see signs
of a strengthening market environment for customers at the leading edge and remain confident
in our plan for steady improvement throughout the remainder of this calendar year and into 2025.
This quarter, KLA results returned to sequential and year-over-year revenue growth,
demonstrating an improving industry environment. In Foundry & Logic, a continuation of scaling
and incorporation of new technologies, and slowly rising capital intensity, continues to be a long-
term tailwind. In Memory, technology development investments, including AI, high-bandwidth
memory, and the improving supply-demand environment, support an expected return to growth
for Memory markets in 2025.
The June quarter also marked another quarter of strong performance from our portfolio of
Broadband Plasma, or BBP products, which we also refer to as Gen4 and Gen5. This year marks 4
years of innovation for our BBP patterned wafer inspection business. We continue to see
significant differentiation, keeping this product line at the forefront of defect discovery for the
semiconductor industry. We expect this product family momentum to continue delivering strong
relative growth performance in calendar year 2024.
AI continues to be a driver and enabler for KLA's business. AI adoption is driving higher volume
wafer manufacturing, more complex designs, larger die and chip size, and growing advanced
packaging demands which support an increase in process control intensity. Last quarter, we
estimated that the KLA opportunity would reach approximately $400 million in annualized
revenue exiting calendar 2024. Today, we're raising that estimate to more than $500 million in
total advanced packaging revenue across the entire KLA portfolio on the momentum we're
experiencing.
Additionally, AI is enabling KLA to further differentiate our products and make continuous
improvement in the performance of our systems. KLA's service business grew to $614 million in
the June quarter, up 4% sequentially and 14% year-over-year. Utilization rates of existing installed
capacity are steadily rising across all business segments as end market demand improves.
Finally, quarterly free cash flow was $832 million. The last 12-month free cash flow was $3 billion,
with free cash flow margin of 31% over the same period.
KLA results continue to demonstrate our sustained process control leadership and the success of
our broad portfolio and specific product strategies. In this industry environment, KLA will continueto focus on supporting customer requirements, executing on product roadmaps, and preparing
for growth at the leading edge.
I'll now hand the call over to Bren to go through the financial highlights and outlook.
`Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Rick.
KLA's quarterly results demonstrated our market leadership combined with the consistent
execution of our global team. KLA continues to show resourcefulness and the ability to adapt to
meet customers' changing requirements.
Quarterly revenue was $2.57 billion, above the guidance net midpoint of $2.5 billion. Non-GAAP
diluted EPS was $6.60 and GAAP diluted EPS was $6.18, both above their respective guidance
midpoints.
Gross margin was 62.5%, at the upper-end of the guidance range as a richer product mix than
modeled and higher revenue volume drove upside to guidance. Operating expenses were $553
million. Operating expenses were comprised of $324 million in R&D and $229 million in SG&A.
Operating margin was 41%.
Other income and expense net was a $32 million expense, and the quarterly effective tax rate
was 12.6%. Quarterly non-GAAP net income was $893 million. GAAP net income was $836 million.
Cash flow from operations was $893 million and free cash flow was $832 million. The company
had 135.3 million diluted weighted average shares outstanding at the end of the quarter.
The breakdown of revenue by reportable segments, end markets, major products, and regions,
can be found within the shareholder letter and slides.
Turning to the balance sheet. KLA ended the quarter with $4.5 billion in total cash, cash
equivalents and marketable securities, debt at $6.7 billion, and a flexible and attractive bond
maturity profile supported by strong investment-grade ratings from all three major rating
agencies.
Moving to our outlook. We believe our business is transitioning from a period of stabilization to a
resumption of growth which began in our June quarter and we expect to continue through the
remainder of calendar '24 and into 2025.
For calendar 2024, we remain encouraged by the improvement in our customers' revenue and
profitability over the course of this year. This improvement will ultimately translate into new
investment in capital equipment to support semiconductor growth over the medium-term. Our
high-level outlook for the industry remains largely unchanged.
Our expectation is for the WFE market to be in the mid-$90 billion range and that the second half
of the calendar year will be stronger than the first half. While too early to be overly specific on
expectations for calendar 2025, we do expect a year of growth due principally by growth in
leading-edge investments in both Logic & Foundry and in Memory. Given KLA's business
momentum, we are confident in our relative performance opportunities moving forward.
KLA's September quarter guidance is as follows. Total revenue is expected to be $2.75 billion,
plus or minus $150 million. Foundry & Logic revenue from semiconductor customers is forecast to
be approximately 80%, and Memory is expected to be approximately 20% of Semi ProcessControl systems revenue. Within Memory, DRAM is expected to be about 83% of the segment
mix and NAND, the remaining 17%.
Gross margin is forecasted to be in a range of 61.5%, plus or minus 1 percentage point, as higher
revenue volume is offset by weaker anticipated product mix.
Consistent with our comments last quarter, based on the current industry outlook, top-line growth
expectations for calendar '24, higher forecasted growth in services, and expected system
product mix, we are still modeling non-GAAP gross margins to remain relatively stable around the
mid-61% range. Variability quarter-to-quarter is typically driven by product mix fluctuations.
Operating expenses are forecasted in the September quarter to be approximately $565 million
as we continue to make important R&D and scaling investments to support expected revenue
growth. Looking ahead, we expect approximately $10 million to $15 million incremental growth in
quarterly operating expenses for the remainder of calendar '24 and into 2025. This is supported
by our revenue growth expectations and in line with our 40% to 50% incremental operating
margin business model.
Other model assumptions for the September quarter include; other income and expense net of
approximately $34 million expense, GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be $6.69, plus or minus
$0.60, and non-GAAP diluted EPS of $7, plus or minus $0.60. EPS guidance is based on a fully
diluted share count of approximately 135 million shares.
In conclusion, our business has transitioned from a period of stabilization to one of growth. We
remain optimistic that the indicators of improvement we have seen will continue throughout the
remainder of calendar '24 and into 2025. KLA is focused on delivering a differentiated product
portfolio that anticipates customers' technology roadmap requirements and drives our longer-
term growth expectations.
With the KLA operating model guiding best-in-class execution, KLA continues to implement
strategic objectives which are geared to drive our performance. KLA's focus on customer
success, delivering innovative and differentiated solutions, and operational excellence is what
drives industry-leading financial and free cash flow performance and allows us to return capital
consistently.
Return of scaling and increasing complexity has solidified our confidence in the increasing
importance of process control in enabling technology advancements. This is not just an improving
time-to-results and process integration in fab ramp, but also an optimizing yield across a volume
production environment with high semiconductor device design mix. This bodes well for KLA's
long-term growth outlook as near-term industry demand trends are continuing to improve.
In alignment with this, KLA's business is improving, and the long-term secular trends driving
semiconductor industry demand and investments in WFE remain compelling.
That concludes the prepared remarks. Let's begin the Q&A. Kevin?
`Kevin Kessel, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Bren. Operator, we're ready for you to provide instructions and begin the Q&A
session.
Questions And Answers
Operator(Question And Answer)
Absolutely. (Operator Instructions). In the interest of time, we ask that you please limit yourself to
one question and one follow-up. We will now take our first question from `Vivek Arya, Banc of America Merrill Lynch with Bank of
America Securities. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Banc of America Merrill Lynch `
Thanks for taking my question. Rick, recently, TSMC said they expect the number of new tape
outs for 2 nanometer in the first two years to be higher than what they saw for 3 nanometer and
5 nanometer in their first two years. And I think they've also heard a number of AI customers
accelerate their roadmaps. I'm curious, what does this mean for KLA in terms of your outlook and
kind of your share of the WFE wallet? And do you expect 2 nanometer to be a bigger factor for
2025 or for 2026?
A - `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Vivek. Yes, we're definitely having those same conversations with our customers in terms
of -- in the reticle world, of course, when there are more design starts, we see activity in the
reticle market in terms of inspection for those reticles and then early launch. We're still early in n2.
And in terms of your question, it's really going into '25 and then '26.
But the other thing we've seen is strengthening in n3 as well. So, I think both of those factors are
being driven by some of the same drivers we talked about in the prepared remarks in terms of
what we're seeing from AI driving that.
So, it does lead us to believe that our goals to increase our percent of WFE continue to be
supported by the opportunities afforded by the additional process control challenges. So I think
we're in pretty good shape with that. The other thing, of course, that's being driven in some of
these advanced AI chips is larger die size, which, as you know, are a bigger challenge from a yield
perspective and creates more incentive for more inspection, especially as these processes are
brought online and ramped up.
So, mostly what we see is it's '25 leading into '26 in terms of when they reach HBM.
Bren, anything to add?
A - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
No, I think you covered most of it, Rick. I would say also one of the things that we're encouraged
by that with the design start environment, given the high mix of parts, that our participation with
our customers in terms of process control and monitoring that happens in production, tends to
be at a higher level. So, they're trying to manage a robust design environment, but testing design
rules in different ways. And that tends to be positive for continuous process control investment as
they ramp up the node.
A - `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And remember, earlier in the year, we talked about a more positive tone we were seeing from
our customers, and it was related to the early demand that they were starting to sense from their
customers. And that's why we believed and that's how it's playing out that we would see
strengthening our business. Maybe what's new, a little bit new, is the strength -- additional
strength in n3, which wasn't as forecasted as the rollout of n2. So I think both of those are addingto our belief that we're in a good period for consistent acceleration and demand on the leading
edge.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Banc of America Merrill Lynch `
Now on advanced packaging, you raised it from $400 million to $500 million. I wanted to clarify is
that on an exiting full year basis or is that for the full year? So just that clarification. Then how
would you break it out in terms of specialty and inspection metrology?
A - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. It's a good question. So that's our expectation for the business level in 2024. So it isn't a run
rate necessarily, but what we expect to do which is significantly above what we did last year,
which was close to the $300 million. So a mid-60% growth rate with continuing momentum. I
would think that we would continue at least through the first half of next year to see strong
demand around packaging. So it's really an opportunity for -- certainly, we're seeing a lot of
customer interest as we're seeing more and more focus on front-end capability, moving into the
back-end. So it's an encouraging opportunity moving forward. I think the growth rate -- relative
the growth rate at WFE will be higher over the next few years.
A - `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So one of the things that I'm sure you've heard is that one of the bottlenecks now for AI is, silicon
is part of it, but the packaging co off [ph] is also part of what we're seeing. And we had
customers for the first time in my career from the front-end start pulling us into packaging
conversations because they want front-end capability, as Bren said, being, used in packaging to
assist. So I think we talked about AI being a driver, it's really driving not just the silicon, but also
packaging and also of course HBM for -- you need all three of those to fully execute on the plans
people have.
So to your question on mix about, I'd say 60% of it is process control and then you have the
remaining 40% is in our process -- specialty process business and also some exposure in terms
of chemical process control as well.
But about 60% of it in the classic semiconductor process control part of our business.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Banc of America Merrill Lynch `
Thank you.
Operator
We'll take our next question from `C. J. Muse, Cantor Fitzgerald with Cantor Fitzgerald. Please go ahead. Your line is
open.
Q - `C. J. Muse, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Yes. Good afternoon and thank you for taking the question. In your prepared remarks, you talked
about returning to growth for Memory in 2025. I know it's early, but would love to hear kind of
your initial thoughts and maybe separating DRAM versus NAND, and then within DRAM, how
you're seeing HBM conversion versus DDR5 and greenfields, and same for NAND layer counts
versus any sort of expectations for greenfield in the 2025 timeframe.
A - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `2024 is really a transition year for Memory. We're not seeing a lot of growth overall, some in the
DRAM front and some investment that's happened in China. So I think from a WFE point of view,
2025 is when we expect to see more growth there.
I think that -- you talked about the drivers, particularly around DRAM and HBM being drivers into
next year. I think as we see our customers' business models improve, and we're certainly seeing
the financial performance improve with pricing going up so significantly over the course of this
year, but that will translate into investment as we move into next year.
I think on the flash market, we're less bullish into next year, although it's operating off a pretty low
level. We'll see as we get closer to it, but right now, we do see a recovery in both parts of it, but
certainly led by more DRAM than flash on an absolute WFE basis.
A - `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. And I think much like some of what we saw in the early discussions of AI last year, where we
didn't really see an increase in silicon because there was still utilization leverage that our
customers have, some of that's in Memory, so we really don't see capacity starting to be added
significantly until '25 and into '26 around HBM. So as Bren said, conversion, but then you don't get
the capacity until later, and it's really HBM associated with DRAM before you see flash.
Q - `C. J. Muse, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Very helpful. And then as a follow-up, again, in the prepared remarks, you talked about
confidence in your relative performance, and obviously no question around the Foundry & Logic
side given the complexity and larger die size. But curious, as you see here increased Memory into
the mix, is there enough share of wallet on the Logic & Foundry side to kind of mitigate that and
allow that relative outperformance? Would love to hear the kind of puts and takes around that.
A - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, we feel pretty good, CJ. We are seeing relative performance this year, and this is a year
that's still pretty heavy overall in what I'll call legacy levels of investments, particularly in China. So,
as we start to move to leading edge and you see the entry ramp and also the initial investments;
and then two, we would expect that, given our position, particularly in certain markets that we
expect to scale and grow much faster than the overall, that we are pretty well-positioned into
next year to see Foundry & Logic leading edge investment drive share of the overall spend.
We were talking about DRAM and HBM. HBM is a device that tends to -- first of all, you have
advanced DRAM, you have EUV as a -- you get the introduction for use of EUV with those chips,
but also as you start to put the chips together, it creates not only potential packaging
opportunities moving forward, but you also have increased sampling to ensure that each of the
DRAM die is functioning properly.
So, we've seen DRAM improve from a process control intensity point of view since the
introduction of EUV, and so I would expect to see that continue as well as we move forward. So
yes, I think we feel pretty good about the relative positioning of the company as we move into
next year.
A - `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So, C. J., one of the things that we're seeing and we haven't seen in many, many years, if you
remember part of the reason Memory had lower adoption was because of repair. And it seemssome of our customers. Obviously, they're going to try to get through that. But that's -- they're
expecting that they're going to have larger need for, a greater need for process control because
of that.
And as Bren said, you also have -- because of EUV, you get the introduction of print check into
memory and they have issues associated with pellicles. So -- I know it's very much into the weeds,
but it drives more print checks. So the process control adoption is setting up to maybe be better
than historical levels, at least for the advanced DRAM.
Q - `C. J. Muse, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Very helpful. Thank you.
Operator
And we'll take our next question from `Harlan Sur, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. with J.P. Morgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `Harlan Sur, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. `
Yes. Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my question. As the team steps into the second half of
this year, advanced technology node deployment is accelerating, obviously reflected in your
strong guidance for the September quarter appears to be reflected in your confidence on the
spending outlook this calendar year and growth into next. Near-term, does the team anticipate
sequential growth in the December quarter? And then relative to, let's say, last earnings call, has
your qualitative view on 2025 improved? I mean, I know, Rick, you mentioned incrementally better
3 nanometer investments. Any other indicators that are coming in better versus your prior
expectations as you look into next year?
A - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I'll start here first. We do expect sequential growth in the December quarter as we discussed
last quarter when we talked about the March quarter being the bottom and an expectation of
sequential growth through the year. So that's how we see things into the December quarter. We'll
see how things play out in terms of what that looks like. I would say on the margin where we're
incrementally more bullish, certainly when you look at the funnel in terms of opportunities into
next year, as we've seen that fill out, we have seen strength in the funnel to support our outlook
into next year.
Q - `Harlan Sur, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. `
Perfect. And then for my follow-up, and this is sort of a follow-on to what Rick was saying, but as
you mentioned, Memory has always had a lower process control intensity, but there are dynamics
that are pushing advanced logic like capabilities, right, into Memory. You mentioned more EUV
adoption in DRAM, but like, for example, in HBM/DRAM, I mean, that's requiring this very
advanced logic chip that sits at the bottom of the stack, right, that's using advanced CMOS logic
technology.
In NAND, the periphery and controller chip, which is increasingly becoming more advanced logic,
is being processed separately from the NAND stack, right, and then bonded together. And then
this whole NAND sort of bonding technology process appears to be a nightmare from a
manufacturability and yield perspective. But taking in totality, I mean, it does appear that these
dynamics are driving memory process control intensity higher. I mean, any way to quantify, I know
historically memory intensity has been about 10%, but if you look at all of these trends over theA - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. It's a good question, Harlan, and you did cover all the advancements that have us pretty
excited in terms of opportunity moving forward. We have seen intensity improve over the last
couple of years or so, but what we're waiting for to lean in, if you will, into that improvement is to
see a full cycle in terms of investment by our customers.
And so I think as we look into next year, I think that where we are today is probably we're
historically around 10%, that we're probably in excess of 11% today. And I think moving forward, if
we can execute and deliver some of the products and capabilities we have in development here,
I think it creates a number of opportunities covering the things you talked about and some of the
other things we talked about in the last question or two.
A - `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. And just contrast that from a few years ago, Harlan. If you go back and you think about 3D,
3D happens and our customers go backwards in lithography, right? DRAM is not really pushing
design rules nor pushing advanced logic around the DRAM, and repair is still working. Like, you
take all those factors off, and you get more into the expected growth and intensity that you get in
logic or in the leading edge foundry for similar reasons.
So, we haven't fully modeled it because it's really hard. Customers are still trying to figure it out,
but there's more characterization happening at the leading edge, leading us to believe that
there's going to be more implementation. But until they've been through the cycles, they don't
know. But it is, to Bren's point, why we feel more bullish.
In our engagement in those customers, they recognize an increased need for the process control
capability. And then you just add on this bonding packaging question and that's a huge issue. And
you know the value of HBM is so high also. So I think there's a lot of factors. In many ways, there
are plenty of opportunities. Then the other part of that answer is making sure that our solutions
actually are going to work for those opportunities and we're still proving that out.
Q - `Harlan Sur, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. `
Perfect. Thank you very much.
A - `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Harlan.
Operator
We'll take our next question from `Harlan Sur, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. -- I apologize, from `Atif Malik, Citigroup with Citi. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Atif Malik, Citigroup `
Hi. Thank you for taking my question. The first one is for Rick on gate-all-around PDC intensity.
Some of your peers have talked about 30% increase in metrology intensity at 2 nanometer gate-
all-around or 3 nanometer, and the reticle inspection peers have talked about EUV map that's
actually coming down to 20 from 30 from 3 nanometers. So when you put these two trends
together, I'm curious how you're looking at your overall PDC intensity, and does that imply that
you're gaining share on the reticle side?A - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
So let me unpack that a little bit. I think that it is definitely the case for gate-all-around that it
creates new integration challenges, and so we've seen, and we've talked about this for some
time now, the adoption of Gen 4 to support that in a new configuration to be able to resolve the
issues around that. So that's a driver. It's also a different approach than what customers have
used because of the architecture change. There's more metrology intensity being used and
largely an increase in the need to control voltage thresholds. So VT control becomes more
important, so that's also part of it. You also just have film thickness measurement and
management higher.
So overall, we would anticipate, but that's all kind of rolled into how we model the increasing
process control intensity that we've outlined before. There's really nothing that's different than
when we modeled that going forward toward our 2026 plan in terms of overall process control
intensity and our share performance there.
And, Atif, if you look back to the last local high in KLA's share at WFE, it was when the industry
transitioned from planar to finfet structures. So typically, architecture changes do drive -- because
of just the change that's happening and the immaturity of the change, it does drive process
control intensity to a higher level. So historically, it's proven. So Rick talked about not only
inspection opportunities, but you're depositing in a lot more layers, 20% to 30% more critical
layers on the metrology side. So we think in a number of areas, it's going to create opportunities.
And you still have the scaling dynamics. While litho layers are constant, those are still pretty
challenging layers in terms of from a defect control point of view. So we're pretty bullish about
the opportunities. I think it's feeding into a lot of what we've said here over in the last few
questions in terms of our confidence moving into next year.
Q - `Atif Malik, Citigroup `
Great. And as a follow-up, Bren, the revenue guide is a bit wider than usual, plus or minus $150
million versus $125 million. Is that just a function of higher revenues, or is it something else?
A - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, a function of higher revenues. It's about 5% or so. At some point, as we move through the
different quarters and revenue ranges, we start to make an adjustment just because of the
higher levels. So there's nothing indicative in that other than the revenue is up 9% higher. We
decided to -- it was 9% in June and then the guidance is another 7%. So that was prudent to raise
the range.
You have to also remember that we do have integers that are quite large. If you think about our
Broadband Plasma systems, they could be anywhere even plus $20 million depending on the
configuration. So tools moving in and out can have an impact in terms of our overall. So it's really
more just the increasing revenue level and not related to anything else.
Q - `Atif Malik, Citigroup `
Thank you.
Operator
We'll take our next question from `Chris Caso, Wolfe Research with Wolfe Research. Please go ahead.Q - `Chris Caso, Wolfe Research `
Thank you. Good evening. I guess the first question is on the trends that you're seeing in mature
node, and specifically, well, I guess China revenue in general. I think your prior comments were an
expectation for China about flat in the second half. Can you talk about if that's still your view and
what you're seeing outside of the leading edge?
A - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. It's still my view. You have the absolute dollar basis, right? And then with the second half
growing relative to the first half, the percent will start to move in the second half versus the first
half. But on an absolute dollar basis, as I said last quarter, it's about flat. Now, depending on what
happens, you've got a lot of new projects, and RevRec could be an issue with newer customers.
So where it shows up in terms of which quarter, I'm not going to comment on. But if you just take
a step back and look at a half-to-half point of view, it's very similar to what I said last quarter.
Q - `Chris Caso, Wolfe Research `
Got it. And then following on, you've made some comments about the impact of high NA in the
past. I mean, one, could you remind us a little bit about the impact of high NA on process control?
And then secondly, with regard to timing for that there's been some noise around that about sort
of implementation schedules. Anything different than you see on your side recognize that you
folks would probably be a little bit earlier in seeing that given the timing of when you install
process control?
A - `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I think that the difference for high NA, the most obvious difference is you're going to
continue a scaling. So you're going to get smaller defects and you're going to have new
challenges associated with reticle qualification. And that takes form both in the mashup and
requal and print check.
So all those factors continue, but it's really an extension of the trends that we've seen. And when
you get high NA, you'll get also just the mix will shift. You'll have some layers initially of high NA,
and then you'll have others that are going to be the 0.33. I think what we're hearing and seeing
from customers is very consistent with what we believed in terms of when HBM happens. We
don't see any acceleration in the timing. If anything, there's the potential for delay in terms of the
HBM implementation. There will be characterization work happening before that.
But like all technology transitions, we see the existing technology often extends longer and has
more upgrades and is more cost-effective, and that's what drives customers. Ultimately, it's
about the economics. And so I think what will happen is if they can do that, then they'll bias
toward extending the life of the 0.33 and the efficacy of that in the leading edge, and then high
NA comes after. So nothing has really changed in our view. No acceleration, if anything, potential
for some additional delay in the implementation.
Q - `Chris Caso, Wolfe Research `
Got it. Thank you.
Operator
We'll take our next question from `Krish Sankar, TD Cowen with TD Cowen. Please go ahead. Your line isQ - `Krish Sankar, TD Cowen `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. I have two of them. The first one is actually on China. And Rick
and Bren, thanks for the insight on the China revenues. I just kind of wanted to ask the question in
a different way. One of your peers at ASM International today said that China mature nodes are in
a digesting mode and calendar Q1 was the peak. I'm kind of curious, are you seeing that? And
how do you think about China's sales into next year, especially given your long lead time? You
might have a better insight than others. And also is that a factor in your gross margin down just a
smidge in September quarter? And then I have a follow-up.
A - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, Krish, on China, it looks, like I said earlier, I think from a half-to-half point of view, it's relatively
flat. So I don't see any real change. A lot of that's dependent on project timing given the level of
greenfield activity that we're seeing there. As we move into next year, my early view on our
business levels is more or less consistent with what we're seeing this year. I think when you look
at the order funnel, what we have in backlog, what we have in deposits, it gives me some
confidence in terms of what we'll see into next year. So I don't see a change. Obviously, the mix
will be changing. There's infrastructure investments. It's obviously the Logic & Foundry, Memory,
and so on. But from an overall level, it seems that it's pretty consistent year-to-year.
On gross margin, it -- while we outperformed in the June quarter, it was a little bit more than
what we had initially modeled in the quarter. There's some adjustment that we're seeing in the
September quarter from that. When you look at KLA gross margins, I talk a lot about product mix
being the biggest driver of our gross margin in terms of variability quarter-to-quarter. It's not
customer mix. It's not region mix. It is the portfolio mix. And not all the products in our portfolio
carry the same margin profile, but also within the product families themselves, particularly when
you're selling across multiple nodes with highly configurable systems, you can end up with varying
gross margin profiles even within the same product families.
So it's really a function of that than it is anything else. And of course, the June quarter was
stronger. I did put the comments, which are very consistent with last quarter in terms of
expectations for this year in the mid-61% range. That's our expectation. And then moving forward,
as we see the business continue to grow into '25, I think you'll see KLA's general incremental
gross margin performance in and around that 65% incremental gross margin, plus or minus, as
we move forward here. Bur in any given quarter, it could add a little bit of variability, but nothing
that's different than what we usually see.
Q - `Krish Sankar, TD Cowen `
Got it. Very helpful, Bren. And then just to follow-up on the advanced packaging. Thanks to the
color, like the $500 million run rate from $400 million like three months ago, is this really a
function of the advanced packaging market growing? Are you like targeting your markets like
macro inspection, which I feel like your peers or your competitors are doing better than that, are
you like targeting those markets that's also helping some of this incremental revenue growth we
did this year? I'm also kind of curious if you can extrapolate that into like panel level packaging,
which is probably a few years out. Thank you.
A - `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I think there's no question that the package market is growing, and it's for all the reasons
that you hear. I think that there's been acceleration, and again, I mentioned earlier in the call thatrelated. So there's a lot of investment happening there. It's not just macro. It's what historically
would have been considered pretty advanced lithography or inspection not that many years ago,
because the design rules and the yield and what's at risk cost-wise is much higher.
Many years ago, when we bought a company and started doing its packaging, one of our
customers asked, why are you even bothering, this is not a KLA market. What happened in the
last year is now customers are saying, we need your capability that you have in the front end to
be applied into some of our advanced packaging challenges and accelerated workshops with us
talking about that, accelerated product roadmaps, and a lot of customer excitement and interest.
So they're driving it very hard because they have shortages. And it's really across many of our
products, both in our processing, but also in our process control. So it's been significant to see
the growth and the speed of it. As we said, that's the annualized -- that's the annual number for
calendar '24, but we'd expect the trend to continue toward growth in '25 and beyond.
A - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Most of our growth has been more on the logic side. And I think one of the things we're
excited about moving forward is that as you move in high bandwidth memory to hybrid bonding
techniques, that you do increase the complexity of the process a fair amount. And as you know,
the KLA position in the market is one of higher value offerings supporting more complexity. And
so we're encouraged by what those opportunities might look like as we get out into the '26 and
'27 timeframe.
Obviously, the industry's thinking a lot about what's next in terms of panel level packaging and so
on, and so there's obviously R&D that goes into that, but so that's work that we will be doing in
the company. And so I think that those opportunities, to Rick's point, are just showcasing, I think,
what's the opportunities that are available in this part of the market over the next several years.
A - `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Just one final point. Some of our customers -- our competitors are coming at this from a lower-
end, and in many cases, the requirements are at the top-end of their capability. And so what
we're hearing from our customers is, even though in some cases they're buying our systems,
what are at the bottom-end of our capability, what they also want is the roadmap.
So I think they want the ability to buy that capability now, the expectation and the knowledge that
they can upgrade it over time as their requirements continue, because you are now with that
packaging. There's no question that roadmap is going to look more like a traditional scaling
roadmap going forward.
Q - `Krish Sankar, TD Cowen `
Got it. So it's future-proofing. Thanks, Rick. Thanks, Bren. Very helpful. Thank you.
A - `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Krish.
Operator
We'll take our next question from `Joe Quatrochi, Wells Fargo with Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.
Q - `Joe Quatrochi, Wells Fargo `Yes. Thanks for taking the question. I just wanted to kind of understand, I think looking at the
guide for the September quarter and thinking about sequential growth into the December
quarter, is it more fair to assume now our kind of thinking about low-double-digit, half-on-half
growth rate for the calendar year relative to the high-single-digit last quarter that you talked
about? And then kind of dovetailing that, I think last quarter you talked about process control
systems mix as being closer to, like, 70% for foundry logic. Is that maybe a bit higher than that
now?
A - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So on those fronts, so, again, I don't want to guide December, but I think high-single-digit,
low-double-digit is probably the right way to think about our performance for the year overall. So I
think that as we saw in June relative to the expectations we had a few months ago, we did better
than we thought. September guide was higher -- certainly higher than what consensus was. So I
think that incremental optimism I talked about earlier in the funnel is revealing in some
incremental growth here through the second half of the year.
When I look at the overall mix of business, I think that foundry logic is likely closer to 75%. So last
year was 70% -- 70.30% on for approximate semiconductor process controls shipment or
revenue to semiconductor customers. It's closer to 75%, 25% and 24%. But we'll see how it ends
up.
Q - `Joe Quatrochi, Wells Fargo `
Perfect. That's helpful. And then as a follow-up, the n2 strength you're talking about, I mean,
given the lead times for Gen 4, Gen 5, I mean, is that going to kind of enter the model in terms
of demand into next year? Is that how we should think about that, or some of those tools be
pulled into 2024?
A - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Well, we are seeing more capacity come online. Those are products where we've been supply-
constrained, certainly around Gen 4. So, as new capacity comes online, I think it's one of the
challenges for us, frankly, back in 2023 is we were limited. And as we move through this year,
from a quarterly run rate point of view, we are getting incremental supply. And that, given the
supply constraints and the level of demand, we are seeing growth there and would expect to see
that continue into next year. So I'm fairly bullish on that part of the business growing faster than
the overall market both this year and next year.
So I think that's one of those areas that I said earlier about our relative confidence in terms of
share of the overall market is our presence in certain markets that are growing extremely fast
relative to the overall, and certainly, high-end wafer inspection is one of those.
Q - `Joe Quatrochi, Wells Fargo `
Thank you.
Operator
We'll take our next question from `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs & Co. with Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead. Your line is
open.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs & Co. `Hi. Thank you so much for taking the question. I wanted to double-click on China and what you're
seeing in the region. You guys gave a lot of color in terms of what you're expecting for the overall
geo. But by application, any standouts as you think about DRAM, foundry, other applications, or
maybe by customer type, mask-making, wafer-making, et cetera, whether it be trends you saw in
the first half or if you think about the flattish outlook into the second half, any standouts to the
positive side or the negative side?
A - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
DRAM was strong in the first half and will be in the second half. I would expect that wafers
probably a little weaker. I think on the reticle side, it's a little bit stronger, and then foundry logic is
stronger offsetting the weaker memory.
A - `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Some weakness in automotive.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Got it. Thank you. And then as a follow-up on your services business, you guys grew 14% year-
over-year and you're outperforming your peers. And I think that's off of a higher base relative to
your peers, too. So really good to see that. You talked about growing toward the high-end for the
remainder of the year, if I'm not mistaken. Is that just simply utilization rates across our customer
base improving, or is there more to it? And as a quick follow-up, is 12% to 14% still the right
range?
A - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So utilization rates are certainly a factor, so we've seen those steadily improve across all
segments over the course of this year, so that's been a driver of incremental revenue. The other
thing, and we had pretty good visibility to this, was the shipments that we, or the tools that we
shipped in '21 and '22 have come off of warranty and gone into contract, and our contract renewal
or attach rate is about 95%. So as those tools go off a warranty and into contract, that that's a
driver. So we've had pretty good visibility into the service business.
We've had a headwind from FX, because you do have some of the service revenue denominated
in local currency, particularly in Japan, so there's been some headwinds to the growth rate,
frankly. But yes, we're trending towards that 14% sort of top part of the guidance range, and I
think -- or the mark, the target we put out there. And I think as we go over the next couple of
years, I feel like we're closer to the top-end of the range than the bottom-end of the range.
Thank you, Toshiya.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Thank you.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Joe Moore with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thank you. I also had a couple of China follow-ups. At one point, you had had a pretty
sizable multi-national business in China. Is the business today mostly dominated by the Chinasovereigns, I assume?
A - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Very, very little multi-national business in China.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Morgan Stanley `
Okay. And then on the China sovereign side, I mean, having seen that business shift to more of a
trailing-edge focus, what's happened to process control intensity? I mean, you seem to be
keeping pace with all of your competitors in terms of China exposure. So you seem to be doing
quite well. I might have thought that the process control intensity would drop off, given the focus
on lagging-edge technology.
A - `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. It's definitely not as high as what you would see on leading-edge, but often in the case if
you have small -- relatively size-wise small sites, then you're not really up against the percent --
against a huge number of wafer starts. So that's one factor. The other factor is some of the
infrastructure that people are adding in terms of whether it's mashups [ph] or wafers. So in
aggregate, that's why it's for us pretty much help serve.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thank you so much.
A - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
And, Joe, on the multi-national question, I mean, most of that business is service, right? We're not
really -- there's no real equipment business that's happening with our multi-national customers
there, but there is service activity supporting those fabs.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Morgan Stanley `
Got it. Okay. Thank you so much.
Operator
And we'll take our next question from `Srini Pajjuri, Raymond James. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Srini Pajjuri, Raymond James `
Thank you. Hi, guys. A couple of longer -- actually one question about 2025 WFE. Rick, obviously,
demand is improving across the board and China is stable. So that makes sense that WFE will
grow next year. I'm just wondering in terms of -- in your assumptions, what sort of assumptions
are you making as far as the chips money is concerned, because the check seems to be coming
in, in second half. Just wondering if you're getting any explicit signals from your customers that
that money is being spent in 2025.
A - `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Our forecasts are entirely independent of any chip back money. There's no dependence on
that. If our customers receive that, it's going to be -- they're going to be getting it. What they tell
us is to offset costs of building fabs in places that are more expensive. But it's not contributing to
that. They're going to build capacity based on demand. The demand is going to be based ontheir market and the overall market, and then they'll buy equipment accordingly. But we're not
counting on our customers to get chip back money to make our plans.
Q - `Srini Pajjuri, Raymond James `
Okay. Thank you. And then more of a technology question, Rick, I time to time get questions
about APMI for mask inspection. My understanding is that you guys were involved in that market
and maybe exited at some point. I'm just curious, maybe I'm wrong here, but I just want to get
your thoughts on that as to how you're approaching that market and what your strategy for that
market is.
A - `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. We have not -- we were heavily involved in the reticle market. It's a market that really we
started a company with and we're still involved in it heavily. The question on do you need actinic
inspection for reticles has been a long debate that we've had. And our conclusion based on all
the analysis that we've seen is the real market need for that is when high NA gets introduced,
because at the existing technology nodes, there's really three ways to deal with the problems.
One is the challenges of reticle quality. One is the flagship product line that we've had for a long
time, the 6xx and extensions to that. The other one is an ebeam product that we've talked about
that's being used for very high resolution. And right now, it's the highest sensitivity reticle
inspection tool still. And with our customers, we're still in the characterization of that tool that's
the 8xx. And then the last one is printing onto wafers and verifying the goodness of the reticles.
And that's what we're using -- basically, using the Gen 5 print check application for.
When it comes to investment in the actinic or the product that we've identified for high NA, we're
pretty confident of our ability to intercept the high-volume manufacturing of high NA, which is still
some years away.
Q - `Srini Pajjuri, Raymond James `
Thank you. Very helpful.
Operator
We'll take our next question from `Brian Chin, Stifel with Stifel. Please go ahead.
Q - `Brian Chin, Stifel `
Hi. Good afternoon. Thanks for letting us ask a few questions. Rick, you talked about inflections
and sequential and year-over-year revenue growth. We're also seeing this in terms of bookings.
And did your 12-month shippable RPO increase this quarter?
A - `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So we'll have all the specifics on that in the 10-K that we'll file here another week or two. It was
pretty close to flat, down about $70 million quarter-on-quarter. So pretty flattish compared to last
quarter. And I think given what we're seeing in the funnel, I would expect it likely to probably over
the next few quarters, we'll start to see it increase. But yes, just slightly down from last quarter.
Q - `Brian Chin, Stifel `
Okay. That's helpful. Then I guess you've made a lot of disclosures in the past couple of callsmonths. Can you sort of ballpark how large the advanced packaging process control TAM is?
You're probably not at your kind of typical, on average, 50%, 60% market share in process
control overall. But maybe a sense of where the starting point is now. And obviously, I'm sure you
expect the market to grow and probably your share as well in the years ahead.
A - `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So I'll let Bren deal with the specifics. This is Rick. But it's not just process control for us. It's also
process tools. Because of the SPTS acquisition we did about five years ago.
A - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. And look, we -- right now, our view is that this part of the market will grow faster than overall
WFE. So if you look in the long run, as we expect WFE over the next few years, with capital
intensities slowly rising to grow a little bit faster than semiconductor revenue that this part of the
market will likely grow faster than that.
So that's the only quantifying we've done at this point. To Rick's point, we have a broad portfolio.
We're seeing parts of it on the inspection side move up market. But we also sell a number of
process tools. We also sell some chemical process control capability as well. So we're
approaching this market in multiple ways. And like I said, I think that, as we talked about earlier, in
the memory part of the market as it relates to HBM, we think we're better positioned relative to
some of the technology transitions that are coming in terms of our share opportunity moving
forward.
Q - `Brian Chin, Stifel `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
We'll take our next question from `Blayne Curtis, Jefferies, LLC with Jefferies. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Blayne Curtis, Jefferies, LLC `
Thank you for taking my question. I had two. I want to ask you on the outlook for EPC. I think you
were looking for growth last time. It might have come in a little bit below. I'm just curious, since
we're going through all the calendar '24 forecasts, if you could update that one.
A - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. On specialty semiconductor, quarter-to-quarter, it dipped a little bit in the June quarter. But
that's more of a timing issue. I think our expectation in that business is still some modest growth
for the year. That business has a pretty diversified market exposure. And as power semi related
to automotive has come down, you see packaging pick up. But there's a little bit of a dip in June.
But it recovers and has a much stronger second half.
Flat panel business is where we announced our exit at that. And so we still have revenue in our
plans for that as we exit that business and we're expecting the manufacturing likely in Q1 of 2025.
On the PCB front, which is more consumer-centric, we still have -- that market's been relatively
sluggish. It's improved a bit, but not much. And that's obviously tied much more to mobility. And
so improvements into the future as we see more cell phone unit growth will drive that business.Now, there was -- that business had a very strong '21 and into '22, a lot of capacity added during
that that COVID period. And so the industry is still working off some of that capacity. Now, in that
business, we do have service exposure. We have pretty good contract penetration in the PCB
world. So while the systems business has been slower, there have been service contributions
from a revenue point of view that we've had over the last year or so. But I would think that overall,
the aggregate part of that business is up a few points year-to-year. I think it's we'll call it low to
mid-single-digits.
Q - `Blayne Curtis, Jefferies, LLC `
Thanks. And then I just wanted to ask you, I know there's been a couple of questions on China. I
heard from others that you're hearing less new names and I think the thought was maybe it
would be more build out of facilities that were already in process. You talked about greenfields
there. And obviously, there's another slug of money potentially coming in. So as you look out a
year or more, I'm just kind of curious how you think about that frenzy we had before of all these
new names that you never heard of before, creating companies, are you seeing any view that
that might come back?
A - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Well, there's still some new business from new customers. The other thing that's happening in
China is you do see investment from our mature legacy customers in China. And so where we've
been engaged in supporting those customers for many, many years, and their businesses are
typically driven by supplying for specific markets and in response to expectations of demand
moving forward. So you do have those customers also investing more here, I think, moving
forward. And then you do move into second phases with certain ones, but there's also some new
ones too. So it's a pretty broad mix as I look at the remainder of this year and into next year.
Q - `Blayne Curtis, Jefferies, LLC `
Got you. Thank you.
Operator
And we'll take our last question today from Tim Arcuri with UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, UBS Securities `
Thanks. I had two. So, Bren, my question on China. So there's been some recent news, obviously
the U.S. Department of Commerce is trying to use the foreign direct product rule against some
of the non-U.S. suppliers. And it would kind of suggest that maybe there's some forthcoming
news that there's a reason why they would want to use the FDPR, like maybe some entity list
additions. So how do you think about that? I know it's kind of hard for you to even handicap your
guidance for that. And I assume that you're not accounting for that at all because you don't even
know like whether that's going to come, but how do you kind of think about that and what the
likelihood is and how do you even handicap for it?
A - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, Tim, I mean, there's been a lot of news for some time and so you're right, I can't participate
here in speculation and hypotheticals about what could or could not happen. So we will continue
to assess, we work very closely with the U.S. government. Of course, we do everything we need
to do in the company to be in compliance. We'll follow the laws we do and we'll support ourhappens, we'll assess the impact and let you know what the impact is in sort of the near-term and
what might be over the line.
A - `Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, one of the things we talked about a lot, Tim, and I know you know this, is because of where
we are with the AI drivers, we're seeing an acceleration at the leading edge. So if we think about
what's really going to propel our business going forward, it's not so much the legacy, which has
been maybe overrepresented on historical levels last few years, but it's the stuff we're seeing
right now, especially at the leading edge in terms of leading edge foundry. And that's been
driving a lot of our business and our expectations around what we're seeing in n3 and n2, plus
the packaging, plus we're seeing in HBM. So if I think about '25, '26, those are going to be the
things that drive KLA, drive our performance, and should drive good opportunities for our
investors.
A - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
If you go back to 2022, 75% plus of our business was what we'll call leading edge, advanced
design rules 20 nanometer or below. So with the expectation of a ramp into next year from our
more leading edge customers on the logic and memory side we think that that's going to drive
the performance of our business as we move over the course of next year and beyond.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, UBS Securities `
Okay. And then last thing. So book-to-bill, based on the RPO, book-to-bill was just a touch below 1.
So this is the seventh quarter that it's been below 1. And it sounds like you think book-to-bill is
going to start to drift up actually, that we're going to finally start to be above 1. So is there some
dynamic where it seems like there was this massive slug of bookings that happened back in mid
'22 and we've been kind of shipping off of that ever since. And are we kind of getting to a point
now where you think that customers are kind of coming back in and they're -- and we could begin
to see book-to-bill start to drift above 1 where we can start to not just be shipping off of this big
slug of orders from the middle of 2022?
A - `Bren Higgins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I think based on the funnel that we will see, yes, I think the order profile looks pretty good.
Now orders are not always indicative of what's going on given the number of customers and the
size of the orders. And then when it comes to KLA, even the size of the ASPs of certain types of
products. But all that being said, yes, it went from about 13 billion at its peak in terms of RPO
down to just sub 10 billion today. So it's still quite large, but I would expect that moving forward,
that at least over the next couple of quarters, it looks that the order profile looks decent. So yes, I
think that's a reasonable way to see it. Thank you, Tim.
Operator
I'll now turn the floor back over to `Kevin Kessel, Vice President, Investor Relations for any additional or closing remarks.
A - `Kevin Kessel, Vice President, Investor Relations `
All right. On behalf of KLA, we appreciate your time and your interest. We'll be seeing many of
you throughout this quarter at different conferences. If you have any follow-up questions, please
do reach out to the KLA Investor Relations team. With that, I'll turn it back to the operator to
conclude the call.Operator
This concludes the KLA Corporation June quarter 2024 earnings call and webcast. Please
disconnect your line at this time and have a wonderful day.