Q4 2014 Earnings Call

Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by and welcome to AMD's Fourth
Quarter Annual Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. As a
reminder, this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference to our host, Ruth Cotter, Vice President of Corporate
Communications and Investor Relations.
Ruth Cotter `
Thank you, and welcome to AMD's fourth quarter and year-end earnings conference call. By now
you should have had the opportunity to review a copy of our earnings release and the CFO
commentary and slides. If you've not reviewed these documents, they can be found on AMD's
website at ir.amd.com.
Joining me on the call today are Lisa Su, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Devinder
Kumar, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. This is a live call and will be replayed
via webcast on amd.com. I'd like to take a moment and highlight a few dates for you. Devinder
Kumar will present at the Goldman Sachs Technology and Internet Conference on February 10
and at the Morgan Stanley Media and Telecom Conference on March 3. Our first quarter quiet
time will begin at the close of business on Friday, March 13, and AMD will host its financial analyst
day on May 6 in New York.
Before we begin, let me remind everyone that today's discussion contains forward-lookingcurrent beliefs, assumptions and expectations, speak only as of the current date, and as such,
involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our current
expectations.
Additionally note that non-GAAP financial measures referenced during this call are reconciled to
their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure in the press release and CFO
commentary, posted on our website at quarterlyearnings.amd.com. Please refer to the cautionary
statements in today's earnings press release and CFO commentary for more information. You'll
also find detailed discussions about our risk factors in our filings with the SEC, and in particular,
AMD's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 27, 2014.
Now with that, I'd like to hand the call over to Lisa. Lisa?
Lisa T. Su `
Thank you, Ruth. Good afternoon to all those listening in today. In the fourth quarter, we made
good progress diversifying our business into new markets, ramping PC and embedded design
wins with key customers, and improving our overall balance sheet. This progress was offset by
ongoing weakness in our PC business due to higher than optimal desktop and AIB inventory
levels in the channel and our overconcentration in consumer PCs.
The Computing and Graphics segment revenue decreased 15% sequentially, largely driven by
weak channel sales. We took some key actions in the fourth quarter to reposition our product
stock and reduce downstream desktop and AIB channel inventory. While these corrective actions
are resulting in short-term pressure in the business, they are integral to building a stronger and
more profitable business going forward.
We did have some success in the quarter continuing to reshape our OEM business. We drove a
richer mix of higher end products, expanded our presence in the commercial market and
increased adoption of our discreet graphic solutions. Mobile APU unit shipments, ASPs, and
revenue, all increased sequentially as our higher end A8 and A10 APU shipments increased.
We also achieved strong double-digit percentage revenue growth for notebook GPUs in the
quarter as strategic wins like Apple's iMac with retina 5K display began to ramp. We clearly have
more work to do to improve the overall revenue and financial performance of this segment. We
must apply the same rigor and discipline that led to the improvement in our OEM business to
stabilize and then grow our channel. I am confident we are taking the right actions to return this
segment to a healthy trajectory starting in the second quarter.
Turning to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment, as expected, Semi-Custom
unit shipments decreased sequentially as we supplied a significant amount of product to
Microsoft and Sony in the third quarter as a ramp to support the holiday demand spike. We are
pleased with the full year performance of the Semi-Custom business and the strong sell-through
reported by our customers. Nearly 30 million Sony and Microsoft consoles have now shipped. Our
Semi-Custom unit shipments more than doubled in 2014 which fueled excellent full year
performance for this part of our business.
Embedded processor revenues also increased for the third straight quarter as we continued to
successfully execute our strategy to gain share in targeted vertical markets where our high
performance CPU and GPU IP are differentiated. In target markets such as network storage,
avionics and medical devices, we had several customers launch new AMD embedded powered
solutions that take advantage of our high performance CPU and GPU IP including Airbus, QNAP
and Analogic.Our work to lead the industry's transition to 64-bit ARM also gained momentum in the quarter.
We have secured multiple design wins for our upcoming Opteron A-Series and the first systems
are expected to launch later this year.
Taking a step back and looking at our annual 2014 performance, it is clear we made progress
across a number of strategic fronts. Annual revenue grew for the first time since 2011. Annual
EESC segment revenue increased by 50%, growing to a $2.4 billion business with strong
momentum in pipeline, we ended the year with more $1 billion in cash and making significant
progress re-profiling our debt; and most importantly, we delivered full year non-GAAP profitability
and continued to build a good foundation for future long-term profitable growth as we invest in
the innovations to drive future success.
In my 100 days as AMD's CEO, I've had the opportunity to spend significant time with our
customers, partners and employees. The consistent theme is that AMD is at our best when we
are delivering differentiated technology and innovation to our customers. There are clearly
significant opportunities for us to accomplish this, both in our traditional PC business as well as in
new growth markets, but we must think differently in 2015 about our market approach and
investment priorities.
First, we see a path to reversing the declines in our PC business. The PC market is expected to
stabilize with low single-digit percentage decline in 2015. We have right sized our investments in
this business and taking actions to reduce our downstream channel inventory in the fourth
quarter. We will continue these corrective actions into the first quarter to aim for return to growth
starting in the second quarter. We are correcting the inventory position quickly, which is
contributing to our revenue guidance in the first quarter. We believe this will position us well when
we begin to ramp new products later this year.
We plan to introduce a strong 2015 product portfolio, punctuated by the launch of Carrizo in the
second quarter. Consumer and commercial design win momentum for Carrizo continued to gain
momentum because it will deliver the largest ever generational leap in performance per watt for
our mainstream APUs. Carrizo is a good example of how the innovations we are making at the
chip-in system level through differentiated design capabilities, translate into meaningful
improvements into the user experience and battery life.
Second, we will increase our R&D investments in Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom. AMD
is the only company in the industry that can offer a full continuum of high performance standard
and customs solutions, spanning both the ARM and x86 ecosystems and we must leverage this
position to drive differentiated and innovated solutions for our customers.
Our server partners have increasingly told us they want to see AMD playing a much larger part in
this business. Although the server design cycle is longer, this is an important vector for long-term
revenue and margin expansion, and we are designing new x86 and ARM based leadership
products for this space powered by our next generation ARM and x86 course.
Our third priority will be to continue diversifying our revenue base and growing in new markets.
We saw good momentum with significant revenue and design win growth in 2014 across all of our
new businesses. For instance, embedded and professional graphics revenue both increased by
more than 20% in 2014. We have a robust pipeline in these businesses, as well as with our Semi-
Custom engagements and we will continue that focus through 2015.
In summary, I am optimistic about our long-term opportunities, but realistic about our short-term
challenges. In the near-term, we will take significant steps to normalize our business as werelationships, and simplifying our business. Longer-term, we have a tremendous opportunity to
apply our technology and IP to differentiate and innovate with our customers, and further
strengthen our financial foundation and performance.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Devinder to provide some additional color on our fourth
quarter financial performance and first quarter guidance. Devinder?
Devinder Kumar `
Thank you, Lisa, and good afternoon, everyone. In 2014, we improved our non-GAAP financial
performance and met the financial goals we laid out at the beginning of the year despite
continued weakness in our Computing and Graphics business. Specifically, we continue to
transform and position ourselves for long-term growth and we delivered our first full year of non-
GAAP profitability since 2011. We grew revenue 4% to $5.5 billion for the year and further
diversified our business as we completed the first full year of our Semi-Custom game console
shipments and derived approximately 40% of revenues in 2014 from high growth adjacent
markets.
Specifically in 2014, we also reduced non-GAAP operating expenses by 11% from the prior year,
while investing in our new products in support of our ARM and x86 strategy and growth areas,
continued our focus on financial performance and reported non-GAAP net income in every
quarter during 2014, delivered positive free cash flow for 2014 excluding the special payment of
$200 million made to GLOBALFOUNDRIES early in 2014 related to the 2012 WSA Amendment,
maintained a strong balance sheet ending the year with over $1 billion in cash, cash equivalents
and marketable securities, and finally, we made significant progress in re-profiling our term debt
pushing out the majority of term debt maturities to 2019 and beyond, while also decreasing our
interest expense run rate year-over-year.
Moving to the specifics of the fourth quarter, where I'll be referencing non-GAAP figures except
for revenue which is on a GAAP basis. Revenue was $1.24 billion, down 13% sequentially and 22%
year-over-year, primarily driven by lower desktop processor, GPU and Semi-Custom SoC sales.
Gross margin was 34% down one percentage point from the prior quarter. As a reminder, third
quarter gross margin of 35% included a $27 million or two percentage point benefit from revenue
related to technology licensing. Operating expenses in the fourth quarter were $382 million,
down $46 million from the prior quarter due primarily to reduced employee bonuses,
restructuring actions, and ongoing expense controls. Operating income was $36 million and net
income was $2 million, with breakeven earnings per share calculated using 781 million diluted
shares.
During the fourth quarter, we had a number of accounting items that I'd like to address. As part of
our annual review of goodwill and primarily due to the decline in AMD's stock price, we
determined that the total non-cash $233 million carrying value of goodwill related to our
Computing and Graphics business was impaired. We also had a lower of cost or market inventory
adjustment of $58 million in the quarter related to our second-generation APU products. We
expect to sell this inventory over the next several quarters, and this adjustment aligns the carrying
value of the inventory with market pricing.
Lastly, we had restructuring and other special charges amounting to $71 million, of which $59
million is expected to be paid in cash. This primarily includes the previously disclosed $57 million
of restructuring and $10 million related to our former CEO's departure. The aforementioned
accounting items I excluded from our segment results and I included in the All Other category.
They are also excluded from our fourth quarter non-GAAP earnings per share computation.Net interest expense, taxes, and other income was $34 million in the quarter, down from $46
million in the prior quarter, primarily due to the benefit of term debt repurchases of $75 million in
the fourth quarter, interest rate swap transactions executed in the third quarter and a tax credit of
$3 million. Adjusted EBITDA was $96 million, down $37 million from the prior quarter. And for
2014, adjusted EBITDA was $505 million.
Now, turning to the business segments, Computing and Graphics revenue was $662 million, down
15% sequentially, primarily due to lower desktop processor and GPU sales. Computing and
Graphics operating loss was $56 million compared to a $17 million loss in the prior quarter,
primarily due to lower channel sales partially offset by lower operating expenses. Enterprise,
Embedded, and Semi-Custom revenue was $577 million, down 11% from the prior quarter,
primarily due to a decrease in sales of our Semi-Custom SoCs, and the operating income of this
segment was $109 million, essentially flat from the prior quarter driven by lower Semi-Custom
product sales, offset by higher royalties.
Turning to the balance sheet; our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances
totaled $1.04 billion at the end of the quarter, up $102 million from the prior quarter. Inventory was
$685 million, down $212 million from the prior quarter including the impact of the lower of cost or
market inventory adjustment. Excluding that adjustment, inventory was down 17% quarter-on-
quarter. Our total purchases from GLOBALFOUNDRIES in 2014 were approximately $1 billion,
lower than the previously estimated $1.2 billion, due to lower fourth quarter purchases.
The fourth amendment to the WSA is complete, with no associated special payments or
penalties. We are currently negotiating our 2015 WSA Amendment in line with our business
expectations. That, as of the end of the quarter, was $2.2 billion. During the quarter, we
repurchased an aggregate amount of $75 million of 2020 and 2022 term debt in the open
market, paying approximately $0.96 on the dollar and funded these with our asset backline of
credit which carries a significantly lower interest rate. Free cash flow in the fourth quarter was $94
million, an improvement of $105 million from the third quarter of 2014.
Before turning to the outlook, let me highlight that as of the first quarter of 2015, in line with many
of our technology peers and more reflective of our ongoing operations, we will be excluding
approximately $20 million per quarter of employee related stock-based compensation from our
non-GAAP financial results.
As outlook for the first quarter of 2015, AMD expects revenue to decrease 15% sequentially, plus
or minus 3%. Gross margin is expected to be approximately 34%. Non-GAAP operating expenses
I expect it to be approximately $350 million excluding approximately $20 million of stock-based
compensation as per our revised non-GAAP definition. Interest expense, taxes and other to be
approximately $48 million and inventories expected to be essentially flat from fourth quarter
levels.
As outlook for the full year 2015, we expect to be profitable on a non-GAAP basis. Non-GAAP
operating expenses to be between approximately $340 million to $370 million per quarter in line
with expected revenue profile. Taxes of approximately $3 million per quarter, cash, cash
equivalent and marketable securities balances to be in the optimal zone of $1 billion. Capital
expenditures of approximately $100 million and inventory to be approximately flat year-over-year.
In closing, as we begin a New Year, we look forward to overcoming our short-term challenges by
stabilizing our Computing and Graphics segment, and continuing to improve long-term financial
performance by diversifying our business and driving through our profitability toward while
maintaining a healthy balance sheet.With that, I'll turn it back to Ruth? Ruth?
Ruth Cotter `
Thank you, Devinder. Operator, we'd now like you to poll the audience for questions please?
Q&A
Operator
Certainly. Our first question comes from Harlan Sur of JPMorgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `Harlan L. Sur, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Good afternoon, and thank you for taking my question. On the Q1 revenue guidance, can you just
provide us with a bit more color for the 15% sequential revenue decline? How much of the
revenue decline is due to continued channel inventory work downs in your Computing and
Graphics segment versus continued game console seasonality in your embedded and Semi-
Custom segments? What I'm trying to figure out is, if both segments are going to be down
double-digit sequentially, or is one going to drive more declines than the other?
A - Lisa T. Su `
Yes, Harlan. So thanks for the question. Let me give you some color on that. So if you take typical
PC seasonality would be about minus 7% or so and typical game console seasonality is probably a
little bit more than that, what we said in the prepared remarks is that we are taking an
opportunity to correct the channel inventory in Computing and Graphics, so overall, down minus
15%. That is more heavily weighted towards Computing and Graphics than towards Enterprise,
Embedded and Semi-Custom.
Q - `Harlan L. Sur, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Okay. Thanks for that, Lisa. And then on the Embedded segment which grew nicely in Q4 in fall of
2014, as you think about your pipeline in 2015, does the team expect Embedded will continue to
grow by double-digits year-over-year? And if so, what end markets would be the biggest
contributors to that growth?
A - Lisa T. Su `
Yeah. So, if you look at the overall Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom business, it was very
good for us in 2014. I'm actually quite pleased with the progress. Certainly, the majority of that
was the Semi-Custom or game console unit shipments which increased significantly. We did also
see, as we said, improvements in the Embedded business and that grew over 20%. As we go
into 2015, it's a little bit early for full year guidance, but I think we would say that we would expect
Embedded to continue to grow. I think on Semi-Custom, we believe that units will grow as they
typically do in the third year of the console ramp, and exactly what that will amount to will depend
on how the market behaves in 2015.
Q - `Harlan L. Sur, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Thanks, Lisa.
A - Lisa T. Su `
Thank you, Harlan.Operator
Our next question comes from Ian Ing from MKM Partners. Please go ahead.
Q - `Ian L. Ing, MKM Partners LLC `
Yes. Thanks for taking my question. Just wanted to step to the revenue and segment
assumptions to actually guide to non-GAAP profitability this year excluding stock comp. When I
look at the OpEx ranges and gross margins about flat, I'm getting just low single-digit quarters of
growth for the rest of the year.
A - Devinder Kumar `
I think it depends on how you look at it from an overall standpoint. Obviously, you have the
numbers in terms of our guidance for Q1 2015. But you do want to take into consideration one
change that I highlighted in the prepared remarks in terms of the OpEx guidance that I gave. That
on a non-GAAP basis, we are excluding the non-cash stock comp expense from the guidance for
the OpEx and that's running about $20 million per quarter for stock-comp expenses overall, so
about $80 million for the year. But I think the rest of it, from an overall standpoint; we're not giving
other than what I have given for 2015 color on the non-GAAP profitability. From where I sit right
now, with a continued control of expenses and the gross margin obviously in Q1 at 34%, we'll give
color more about 2015 as we get through Q1 and into Q2. And in particular, we have an analyst
day that's scheduled on May the 6, where we'll lay out obviously a more detailed model for the
year and for the longer-term outlook.
Q - `Ian L. Ing, MKM Partners LLC `
Okay, great. And then, Lisa you talked about the launch of Carrizo highlighting HSA support.
Could you talk about the applications for HSA implementations? I mean who's writing code right
now in the HSA development environment, what kind of customers can we have potentially in the
future? Thanks.
A - Lisa T. Su `
Yeah. So we are enthusiastic about our Carrizo launch that will take place in the second quarter. I
think if you look at the improvements that will come with that, HSA is one of them. We'll also have
significantly improved performance in battery life in Carrizo. Relative to HSA applications, I think
there're number of applications both in the consumer space related to video that will perform
quite well with Carrizo, as well as in other areas. We expect Carrizo to be beneficial for
Embedded and other businesses as well.
Q - `Ian L. Ing, MKM Partners LLC `
Okay. Thanks. That's all I had.
A - Lisa T. Su `
Thanks, Ian.
Operator
Our next question comes from Mark Lipacis from Jefferies. Please go ahead.
Q - `Mark J. Lipacis, Jefferies LLC `Hi. Thanks for take my question. On your expectation for a healthy trajectory in the PC and
Graphics business in 2Q, what are the – can you help us understand to what extent is that driven
by your improvement in the commercial side versus consumer business? Can you help us with,
roughly, what's the split between these to two? And does that – does healthy trajectory – does
that mean sequential growth in that business in 2Q or does that mean in line with normal
seasonal patterns? Thank you.
A - Lisa T. Su `
Thanks, Mark. Let me try to answer that and give you color on the various segments. So as I
mentioned in our MNC business, we've really made nice progress overall in terms of improving
our mix, improving our design wins, especially going into the second quarter and the second half
of the year with our new product launches. I think we feel very good about where we're
positioned there. Commercial will definitely be important as well as improving our overall mix.
And then, relative from Q1 to Q2, I think the largest improvement will be around the channel
health. We have had this channel problem for a couple of quarters and it's important for us to
correct that. As we look at the downstream channel, we definitely reduced some inventory in Q4,
and we will take significant action to reduce that inventory in Q1. And that will give us an
opportunity to return to a more normal desktop channel business which has been relatively
successful for us in the past.
Q - `Mark J. Lipacis, Jefferies LLC `
Thank you. A follow-up, if I may. I think you noted two to three new Semi-Custom design wins in
the last earnings call. Can you remind us of the timing and nature of those design wins by end
market or application? And, can you describe or characterize the pipeline after those two or three
design wins? Thank you.
A - Lisa T. Su `
Yes. So on the Semi-Custom design wins and pipeline, at the end of last year we reported two
new Semi-Custom wins. They included both x86 and ARM. Timeframe for that revenue is we start
NRE – we started NRE last quarter and we'll have NRE revenue in 2015. You'll see production
revenue in 2016.
Q - `Mark J. Lipacis, Jefferies LLC `
Thank you.
A - Lisa T. Su `
Thanks, Mark.
Operator
Our next question comes from Matt Ramsay of Canaccord Genuity. Please go ahead.
Q - `Matt D. Ramsay, Canaccord Genuity, Inc. `
Yes. Thank you for taking my questions. First, Lisa, you had mentioned in the prepared remarks,
pull from the server customer base sort of excited or urging AMD to get back into that market,
both on x86 (28:26) and ARM. Maybe you could talk a little bit more about the nature of that pull?
Is it more ARM, more x86 based and how your design teams are set up to address that challenge
given your history in the server business in the past?A - Lisa T. Su `
Sure, Matt. So, there's no secret that we've lost a lot of market share in the server business. But if
you look at fundamentally what's important to those server customers, it is about knowledge of
the enterprise. It is about high performance compute capability, reliability, all the system capability
and those are things that AMD can uniquely very capable of. So when we look at ARM and x86, I
would say the majority of the market will still be x86 for quite some time because of all the legacy
applications that exist. ARM offers a new opportunity in some of the dense server markets, and
so we continue to look at that as a growth opportunity where new business will grow. So it's really,
I would say, separate parts of the market. I think where we add value is that we're able to look at
that in totality, and optimize the server ecosystem for that.
Q - `Matt D. Ramsay, Canaccord Genuity, Inc. `
All right. Thank you. And then, Devinder, as a follow up it's been mentioned a couple times in
detail that you guys are going to change the sort of excluding the stock comp from the non-
GAAP numbers. I don't know how much you want to comment here today, but just for year-over-
year comparison purposes, are you guys – do you forecast being non-GAAP profitable including
the stock comp, or just by excluding it? Thanks.
A - Devinder Kumar `
It's excluding the stock comp. It is about $20 million of non-cash stock comp expenses, very much
in line within a lot of technology peers, and kind of more comparative basis. So I think when you
look at the OpEx guidance, for example, that we are providing in Q4, that excludes the stock
comp expense of about $20 million, and that's non-cash. It'll show up from a segment reporting
standpoint in our All Other category, very consistent like I said with several of other technology
peers.
Q - `Matt D. Ramsay, Canaccord Genuity, Inc. `
Got you. I was just trying to say do you think you'll be non-GAAP profitable, if you sort of reverse
that new change to the reporting structure, so under the old method?
A - Devinder Kumar `
Well, our guidance is non-GAAP profitable excluding the stock comp expense for 2015.
Q - `Matt D. Ramsay, Canaccord Genuity, Inc. `
All right. Fair enough. Thanks.
Operator
Our next question comes from Joe Moore of Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Great. Thank you. I wonder if you can clarify within the PC CPU business, what's the split between
channel and OEM at this point, or just qualitatively? And you've mentioned, for the last couple
quarters, this inventory compression. Is there a demand aspect to this as well? Do you think
you're losing share in the channel versus just an inventory correction in the channel?
A - Lisa T. Su `Yeah, Joe. We don't talk about the exact split between our channel and our MNC business. It's fair
to say our MNC business is larger, though. So what we ship into our OEM customers is larger than
the channel business. Relative to the inventory versus demand, I think the desktop channel is an
area where, if you look at it, it's heavily concentrated in China, and has had more impact on some
of the dynamics in China, especially as you look at the entry level part of the business. I will say
though that, as we look at it overall, I think the channel will still be a very good business for us
going forward. It's just we need to correct the inventory levels.
In the AIB business, or the Graphics channel, it's a little bit more complicated in that. In the first
half of 2014, we had actually an unusually strong AIB channel because of the Bitcoin effect, and
then we needed to correct some of that. There are some competitive dynamics in the Graphics
AIB channel as well. I think from where I see it going forward, we are very focused on correcting
the channel and normalizing that business. I think we have some good products that are coming
out for it. So I do see opportunities for a return to a more healthy channel business going forward.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Great. Thank you. And then, Intel had mentioned on their call having had some excess Bay Trail
inventory at the end of Q3 that they burned off during Q4. Do you think that had any effect on
you guys, and do you think that situation's cleared up for you?
A - Lisa T. Su `
Yeah. I don't think it particularly had an effect. I mean one of the comments that I made earlier,
our ASPs have really come up nicely with our mix in the OEM business. So from that standpoint, I
didn't see a particular effect.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Thank you very much.
A - Lisa T. Su `
Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from John Pitzer of Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.
Q - `John William Pitzer, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
Yeah. Good afternoon, guys. Thank you for letting me ask the question. First question, Devinder,
just as a clarification; no impact from under-spending on the WSA in 2014, or might that carryover
to 2015? And just broadly, how do we think about the parameters for the 2015 WSA?
A - Devinder Kumar `
Yeah. John, you're right. No impact whatsoever. No penalties, no special payments, which is I think
what your question is. As we reduce the supplies and the purchases to end 2014. 2015, we are in
discussions, that's in progress, to go ahead and close the 2015 supply agreement.
Q - `John William Pitzer, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
And then, Lisa, in the prepared comments, you talked about OpEx kind of between a range ofthe business at kind of a non-GAAP breakeven level? And if we do get revenue upside, will you
just let that drop through to OpEx? And to kind of ask just a broader question, how do you think
about prioritizing spending as you try to maintain non-GAAP breakeven? And is that even the right
goal to think about given that you already have $1 billion of kind of released growth cash on the
balance sheet. Are you under-investing in certain areas right now to try to maintain that non-GAAP
breakeven?
A - Devinder Kumar `
I'll take the first part on the financials, and I'll let Lisa comment on your second question, which is a
good one. I think, overall, when you look at it from an overall standpoint, we've been very
disciplined from an OpEx standpoint. But the question that always comes up internally, and Lisa
obviously and Mark Papermaster watch that very carefully in terms of making sure that we
continue to invest in the R&D area, especially for the products and the technology and all of the
future stuff that we're doing. But John, you're right, we do want to manage from a viewpoint of
overall cash and the P&L, that's important. The breakeven P&L has come down significantly as we
have managed the OpEx. But the R&D investments, especially with the roadmap that we are
projecting for 2015 and 2016 continue. And you're also right from an OpEx standpoint getting
down to the, call it, $350 million level that we are guiding to for Q1, that would go up within the
range of the $340 million, $370 million depending on the revenue profile. And obviously my
desire is to drop that as much as possible to the bottom line as long as we continue to invest in
the R&D areas. But I'll let Lisa comment for the R&D investments.
A - Lisa T. Su `
Yeah, John, so the way I would answer it is something like this, certainly, we strive to do better
than non-GAAP breakeven on a medium-term basis. However, when I look at the OpEx and what
we're trying to drive, it is really important for us to make the right technology investments and
invest in the products that are going to fuel long-term growth. So we made some decisions in the
fourth quarter, we announced some restructuring actions. I think those were the right set of
actions because they were really around streamlining our business and making sure that we were
making some priority calls in places. As I look forward, Q4, Q1, we've talked about lower than
expected revenue due to some of the channel issues. As we go into Q2 and beyond, we're really
focused on growth, and it's really all about the products and customers and getting our products
out into the marketplace. So that's really my focus.
Q - `John William Pitzer, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
Thank you, guys.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Merrill Lynch from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thank you for taking my question. One for Devinder and then one for Lisa. Devinder, the $212
million payable to GLOBALFOUNDRIES, that will be paid in Q1. So that will bring cash down to the
$800 million or so, and then you expect a recovery to get back to the $1 billion optimal zone. Do I
have that right?
A - Devinder Kumar `If you're talking about the $212 million as the AP balance that's associated with
GLOBALFOUNDRIES on the balance sheet, then obviously those are purchases that we have
made in 2014 before the year ended, and that cash obviously is due to GLOBALFOUNDRIES to
be paid, call it, in the first quarter of 2015, is when that cash will be paid.
But from a purchases standpoint, the way it works with WSA is the wafers get delivered. And like I
said, against the $1.2 billion that we expected when we close the 2014 WSA, we purchased $1
billion worth of wafers. As we ended 2014, we made a mutual decision to reduce the supply and
purchases based on market conditions, and the 2014 WSA is complete. We are in discussions
about the 2015 WSA. The supply continues based on the good relationship we have with our
partner. There's no issue there, but we are working on the details to fully finalize and sign the
2015 WSA.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
But Devinder, you expect when that payment is made for the cash to perhaps temporarily dip
below the $1 billion optimal zone and then to pick back up again in later quarters? I'm just trying to
understand the trajectory of your gross cash during the year.
A - Devinder Kumar `
Yeah. No, I understand, I understand the question. I think you're saying, okay, you've got money
due to GLOBALFOUNDRIES, but I have other accounts payables and accounts receivable due too.
So net-net, the goal is to manage our cash balances in the optimal zone of $1 billion. So from my
standpoint, as we end Q1, when we are sitting here in April talking about the Q1 cash balances, I
expect to be in the optimal zone of over $1 billion. And, Vivek, you have seen that over the last
many, many quarters, despite some challenges off and on, we've been able to manage the cash
pretty well in the optimal zone and well above the target minimum of $600 million.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Got it. And then maybe for Lisa, as you mentioned that game console units could grow somewhat
this year, I'm interested in understanding what happens to your ASPs now that you're in the third
year of launch, should we think of your ASP – AMD's ASPs be sort of flattish or could they be up or
down this year? What happens typically during the third year of this kind of very prominent
launch?
A - Lisa T. Su `
Yeah. So Vivek, we have long-term agreements with our customers relative to ASPs. So there is
some ASP decline. It's fair to say that it's less than it was in the early years.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Got it. And just one last thing to look at the bigger picture here, Lisa, you're doing a very good
job managing cost and AMD has always had good technology. But I'm trying to understand how
you get out of this perennial restructuring mode and start growing again because it appears to
me that all the benefits of all the pipeline you're building in Semi-Custom continue to be offset by
some of the pressures on the traditional PC and the GPU market. Is it that you expect those
traditional markets to start recovering, or do you think we might be underestimating the benefit
that you might get on the Semi-Custom side? Thank you.
A - Lisa T. Su `Yeah. So Vivek, I mean, if I just take a step back and just talk about what we're trying to do overall
in our strategy, we really are a technology company, it's all about our IP and our products and
what we put into the marketplace. If you look at our two businesses, I think we've shown that we
can grow a business. The Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom growth, very nice growth,
very predictable, profitable. I'm confident that's on the right track. And in terms of what we're
going to do across those market segments, I will say, if anything, we want to make some bolder
technology bets in that area to fuel that growth.
And then on the Computing and Graphics business, I do believe that we will stabilize this
business. I mean, the last couple of years have been difficult, some relative to market conditions,
some relative to things that we could have done better. But overall, it's 300 million units. That's a
big market. And so most every customer would agree that AMD can add value in that space, and
we're focused on making sure that our products really add value to that ecosystem.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from Hans Mosesmann from Raymond James. Please go ahead.
Q - `Hans C. Mosesmann, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
Thanks. Hey, Lisa, some clarification on really the second half of last year. Was the inventory
situation that you're dealing with now, is that – how much of it is the competitive dynamic and how
much of it was just end demand being weakened in China, for example?
A - Lisa T. Su `
I think it's different in the different markets. I think with desktop, it's more end demand relative to
China and perhaps we were a little bit long on inventory earlier in the year. I think in the Graphics
channel, again, I said it was a bit volatile in the first half of the year. Some of that is due to
competitive dynamic, but I think some of that is, as I said, due to the fact that the first half of the
year was so strong.
Q - `Hans C. Mosesmann, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
Okay. Thanks. And then as a follow-up on the ARM side of the equation, you mentioned that you
expect shipments later this year. It seems there's somewhat of a delay. What's going on there
specifically with Seattle and how it got sampled and how it's being adopted?
A - Lisa T. Su `
Yeah. So we have Seattle actually sampled in a number of different customers and ecosystem
partners. I think with the – the good news is that the ecosystem is designing on AMD silicon, so I
think that's good. Relative to the overall ramp, we always thought of this as a slow ramp. And so
we'll see production shipments in 2015, but primarily we've seen a lot of ecosystem partners
spending quite a bit of time on the software on our silicon.
Q - `Hans C. Mosesmann, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
Okay. Super. Thanks.A - Lisa T. Su `
Thanks, Hans.
Operator
Our next question comes from Christopher Rolland from FBR Capital Markets. Please go ahead.
Q - `Christopher Adam Jackson Rolland, FBR Capital Markets & Co. `
Hey, guys. Thanks for the question. So looks like Samsung and GLOFO are potentially making
some headway here on the foundry side towards 14-nanometer. Can you guys talk about your
plans to leverage that or to avoid that and what we can expect through the year for leading-edge
silicon? Thanks.
A - Lisa T. Su `
Yeah. So Chris, we are actively designing a number of products in 14-nanometer, the 14-
nanometer technology. I think FinFET will be very important for us from a competitive standpoint.
So it's important technology for us.
Q - `Christopher Adam Jackson Rolland, FBR Capital Markets & Co. `
Okay. And then also if you can provide any details on timing, I'd love that, but outside of that, can
you talk about the slide in PC operating profits and when you expect to sort of return to
breakeven? And whether that OpEx step-down we get in Q1, is that all coming from Compute
and Graphics? Thanks.
A - Lisa T. Su `
Yeah. I'll take the first part of that and I'll let Devinder take the second part of that. So relative to
timing on FinFET, yeah, we will be talking more about our long-term roadmaps at our financial
Analyst Day. So I'll hold that question there. And, Devinder, you want to take the OpEx?
A - Devinder Kumar `
Yeah. On the OpEx side, obviously with the decline in the business and in particular with the
guidance we provide in Q1 here, the OpEx has come down as you observed. And I would say two
things: Lisa said in the prepared remarks that we are investing on the R&D side for the
Embedded, Enterprise and Semi-Custom business. With the things that we talked about on
Embedded, it's growing pretty nicely. The Enterprise side on the server piece, we need to make
the investments for the customer so that we can return higher market share from an overall
standpoint. And then the Semi-Custom side, in addition to the design wins that we have, we have
a healthy pipeline and we want to continue to grow that business.
So I think overall, when we look at the OpEx side of the house, it is probably true that on the CG
side is where the expenses are coming down more than probably in the Embedded, Enterprise
and Semi-Custom. But overall, we're managing the OpEx in line with revenue while protecting the
investments on the R&D.
Q - `Christopher Adam Jackson Rolland, FBR Capital Markets & Co. `
Great. Thanks, guys.Operator
Our next question comes from are Ross Seymore of Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
Q - `Ross C. Seymore, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Hi. I guess first question is for Lisa. On the inventory side of the equation, what are you guys
planning to do differently if anything going forward? You've already answered a little bit about
what you thought the causes of the excess inventory would be. Is there anything you would do in
retrospect differently? And looking forward, does that mean you keep the channel tighter than
before? Are there any business implications that we should be aware of?
A - Lisa T. Su `
Yes, Ross. So on the channel, I mean I think in general, it's much better to keep supply sort of in
line with demand. And certainly that will be important for us going forward. Secondly, the sell-
through velocity I think will be modulated by our products, and as we put new products into the
channel over the next couple of quarters I think that will increase sell-through velocity. I did
mention China as one of the areas where we have to just see how that develops and how the
DIY market in particular develops. But again, I think this is about just matching supply with demand
and not getting out of sync there.
Q - `Ross C. Seymore, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
And I guess as a follow-up, one for Devinder. In the EESC segment, you mentioned that the
operating income was pretty much flat sequentially and it sounded like royalties were the cause
of that. Can you give us a little bit of color on what were those royalties? Is that just a seasonal
effect that goes away or how should we think about those going forward?
A - Devinder Kumar `
I don't think they go away. They were obviously very nice in the Q4 timeframe based on some
technology licensing that we have related to royalties that we collect, but they don't go away.
They continue into 2015.
Q - `Ross C. Seymore, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
So it's not just a seasonal effect?
A - Devinder Kumar `
Well, I would say in Q4 it was nicer than what I would otherwise expect.
A - Lisa T. Su `
It is somewhat related to end shipment. So because of the end shipments were higher in Q4,
they were higher in Q4.
Q - `Ross C. Seymore, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Okay. Great. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Sanjay Chaurasia, Nomura Securities International, Inc. from Nomura. Please go ahead.Q - `Sanjay Chaurasia, Nomura Securities International, Inc. `
Hi, Lisa. A question on gaming console. You indicated 30 million shipments this year. And if I go
back historically when these gaming consoles were launched, I think the first year sales were
roughly between 15 million and 20 million. My question is, it seems like this higher sales could be
because of expanded availability in different regions. And as you look into next year, what gives
you confidence that you could grow this in terms of units, or in terms of your revenue into 2015?
And then I have a follow-up.
A - Lisa T. Su `
Sure. So Sanjay, let me just clarify. In terms of the unit shipments, those are unit shipments from
our customers to end users and most of that is publicly available data from what Sony and
Microsoft have published. So relative to historical, I think most people will say that historically the
game console shipments in this generation are higher than in the previous generation. And you
can come up with all kinds of reasons for that. Some of that is sort of the price points that they've
chosen. I think that certainly help the holiday season. Some of that is – it's software titles that are
available at a given point in time.
I think the main thing is, as we look at any holiday season, we want to make sure that there's not
a lot of inventory that's sitting with our customers, and we see that that's fairly well balanced. And
so that gives us confidence as you go into 2015 and you see new titles that are launched and
those come out, that it should be a fairly normal market.
Q - `Sanjay Chaurasia, Nomura Securities International, Inc. `
And a question on desktop, seems like sales declined 30% sequentially and kind of declining at a
similar level, agreed you indicated inventory is a factor here. But key question is that we're still –
you're not saying that the demand decline was because of a roadmap issue or a vacuum in the
product stack. Going forward, given that this has declined so much, do you have enough OEM
support to carry these desktop SKUs with OEM? Or would OEM ask you to burden greater
portion of the R&D costs associated in carrying these SKUs because this has really become a very
– the scale of this business has become really small. And so question essentially is, what kind of
challenges do you see when you have the right product to revive the desktop market?
A - Lisa T. Su `
Sure. So the way I would say it is something like this. It's clear that our mobile products are very
competitive. We've invested heavily in mobile, and you see that with some of the successes that
we've had. Relative to desktop, mobile and desktop actually share a lot of technology. So
certainly, there's a lot of sharing there in terms of the cores and the IP and the designs. There are
things that we will do to improve the competitives of our desktop products as we go forward.
And so again, I view it as a market that we know well. And within the spend envelope that we've
already defined, we will continue to compete in both the desktop and mobile markets.
Q - `Sanjay Chaurasia, Nomura Securities International, Inc. `
Thank you so much.
Operator
Our next question comes from Cody Acree from Ascendiant Capital. Please go ahead.Q - `Cody G. Acree, Ascendiant Capital Markets LLC `
Hey, guys. Thanks for taking my question. Lisa, regarding the inventory excesses, I guess as you
look at not just the consumer side but also the Enterprise side, what level of visibility you think you
have comfort with about this cleaning up in Q1? And then on the Enterprise side, knowing that it
looks as though maybe the Microsoft XP upgrade cycle is tailing off a bit, how much are you
counting on share gains in the Enterprise side to help out?
A - Lisa T. Su `
Yeah. So relative to the channel inventory, it is primarily consumer and it's primarily, as I said. the
DIY channel that we're highlighting. Relative to Enterprise, I think our progress in Enterprise is less
due to the overall market and more due to just having products that are more capable in the
Enterprise. If you think about how our products have evolved from, let's call it, fairly low end to
now as we get to our higher end products, are very competitive. I think that plus the design wins
that we have give us some optimism about commercial.
Q - `Cody G. Acree, Ascendiant Capital Markets LLC `
And then just as you look around the rest of your businesses, with some of your Semi-Custom
wins not really expected to kick in until 2016, Embedded grew nicely, but it does have pretty long
tails as well. I guess, as you look into the second half of this year, what are you doing now that
really might be able to drive surprises in the second half, or does a lot of this growth become
more of a 2016 story?
A - Lisa T. Su `
I think the key for us, as I said, is on EESC, the Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom, I think we
have a good path. Some of it will depend on what the market does with game consoles and we'll
just have to see how that develops over time. I think on the Computing and Graphics business,
we can improve our execution, and there is a lot of focus, at least from my standpoint to ensure
that our 2015 product launches are quite strong. So that's important for us to really stabilize that
business and that will certainly be key to our second half performance.
Q - `Cody G. Acree, Ascendiant Capital Markets LLC `
Great. Thanks, guys. Good luck.
A - Ruth Cotter `
Operator, we'll take one more question please.
Operator
Our final question comes from `Stephen Chin, UBS Securities LLC of UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Stephen Chin, UBS Securities LLC `
Great. Thanks for squeezing me in. Lisa, first question for you if I could. In terms of the strategy
for the PC market, both Processors and APUs, can you help me better understand little more of
how we should think about growth over the course of this year? When we look at unique products
such as Carrizo, even though it's (53:47) main competitor, you guys are definitely driving in the
value and pulling on the traditional technology levers. But in terms of consumer market and even
Enterprise corporate to certain degree, your main competitor there is pushing new form factors,fabless designs as well as kind of new user interface technologies such as 3D cameras to help
kick start interest there and continue growing. What gives you the confidence, or just give me
metrics that can help us match up the new technologies you're driving in the market this year with
growth either in the consumer market and/or corporate?
A - Lisa T. Su `
Yeah. So for the Computing and Graphics business, I think the most important thing for us to do is
to continue the work that we've done on selling up our stack and improving our mix. And we've
demonstrated that in 2014 with our OEM customers. As we go into the new product cycle for
both consumer and commercial, there are some key feature sets that we will offer. I think you'll
find that although we are in 28-nanometer technology, the performance and the battery life as
well as some of the features will be quite differentiated, especially around video and some of
these multimedia applications.
And then as you look in commercial, I think we're quite under-represented today. And so it is an
opportunity to grow just based on the design wins that we have seen and the form factors that
we will be in, in 2015, that we were not in, in 2014. So we certainly have to demonstrate that over
the next couple of quarters, but we're doing all the key things to make sure that we get these
products further into the market.
Q - `Stephen Chin, UBS Securities LLC `
Okay. Got it. And one question for Devinder. On the OpEx side, you mentioned the $340 million
to $370 million per quarter range for OpEx this year. Any color on kind of quarter-to-quarter
variability which you see on that spending at the high or the low end of that range, whether it's
product tape-outs or marketing expenses (55:57)? Thank you.
A - Devinder Kumar `
Yeah, I think that both of those points are right. As we get to the second half, typically the
business is stronger obviously with the revenue profile. There may be some additional marketing-
related expenses. And then we do have product tape-outs and some engineering work that kicks
in, and that could take the expenses higher. I expect to manage within the range of the $340
million to $370 million throughout the year, and in particular manage it tightly in the first half of
2015 including Q1 where we pegged it at about $350 million.
Q - `Stephen Chin, UBS Securities LLC `
Perfect. Thank you.
A - Devinder Kumar `
Thank you.
A - Ruth Cotter `
Operator, that concludes our call. If you could wrap it up, please? Thank you.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference. Thank you for your attendance.
You may now disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.