Q4 2015 Earnings Call

Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for your patience. You have joined AMD's fourth
quarter and year-end earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only
mode. Later, there will be an opportunity to ask questions, and instructions will be given at that
time. As a reminder, this conference may be recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host, Director of Investor Relations, Ms. Liz Morali.
Please wait just a moment for Ms. Morali to begin.
Liz Morali `
Thank you for joining our fourth quarter and year-end conference call. By now you should have
had the opportunity to review a copy of our earnings release and the CFO commentary and
slides. If you have not reviewed these documents, they can be found on AMD's website at
ir.amd.com.
Participants on today's conference call are Lisa Su, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and
Devinder Kumar, our Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer. This is a live call
and will be replayed via webcast on amd.com.
I would like to highlight a few dates for you. Mark Papermaster, Senior Vice President and CTO,
will present at the Morgan Stanley Technology Media and Telecom Conference on March 3 in San
Francisco. And our first quarter quiet time will begin at the close of business on Friday, March 11,
2016.
Before we begin, let me remind everyone that today's discussion contains forward-looking
statements based on the environment as we currently see it. Those statements are based oncurrent beliefs, assumptions, and expectations; speak only as of the current date; and as such,
involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our current
expectations. Additionally, please note that we will be referring to non-GAAP figures during this
call except for revenue, which is on a GAAP basis. The non-GAAP financial measures referenced
are reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure in the press release and
CFO commentary posted on our website at quarterlyearnings.amd.com.
Please refer to the cautionary statements in today's earnings press and CFO commentary for
more information. You'll also find detailed discussions about our risk factors in our filings with the
SEC and, in particular, AMD's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 26,
2015.
With that, I will hand the call over to Lisa. Lisa?
Lisa T. Su `
Thank you, Liz, and good afternoon to all those listening in today.
While 2015 was a challenging year from a financial perspective, the dedicated commitment of our
employees combined with our long-term technology investments and sharpened focus have
created a strong foundation for future growth. In the fourth quarter, revenue decreased 10%
sequentially to $958 million, as seasonally lower semi-custom SoC shipments were partially offset
by the second straight quarter of double-digit percentage revenue growth in our Computing and
Graphics business.
Looking at our Computing and Graphics segment, revenue increased 11% sequentially, as we
continued to improve the performance of our PC business. We had strong double-digit
sequential percentage growth in mobile APU sales, driven largely by increased Carrizo shipments
and good sell-through of AMD-based PCs on Black Friday.
In the channel, we delivered our third straight quarter of sequential revenue growth and further
reduced downstream product inventories based on improved demand for FX CPUs and A-Series
APUs. We also made progress diversifying our client computing revenue as we further expand
into the commercial PC market.
Second half 2015 commercial APU unit shipments increased more than 15% from the first half of
the year. We believe we can continue to grow our commercial shipments based on the high
volume wins we are securing both across large enterprises and the public sector.
Now, switching to graphics, GPU revenue increased sequentially for the second straight quarter,
driven by improved AIB channel sales of our Radeon 300 Series across the enthusiast,
performance, and mainstream segments and growth in professional graphics sales. The PC
gaming market strength helped fuel a richer GPU mix and improved demand for our high-end
Radeon R9 Series in the quarter. We expect this momentum to continue throughout 2016, as
Oculus and HTC begin shipping consumer-ready VR headsets.
The buzz and interest in VR is an exciting trend that is focusing the software industry's attention
and some of its brightest minds back on the PC platform. While the initial wave of VR will be
focused on gaming, an increasing number of developers see VR as the most significant
advancement in how we interact with technology since the introduction of the mouse and
graphical user interface. Most importantly, these breakthrough software experiences will only be
enabled with high-performance energy-efficient GPUs.Overall, we made good progress further stabilizing our PC business in the fourth quarter. And we
believe we are well positioned to navigate the seasonally weaker first half of the year and
ongoing challenges in the China PC market due to macro conditions.
Turning to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment, revenue declined 23%
sequentially, in line with our expectations, as semi-custom sales decreased from their third
quarter seasonal peak. We had record annual semi-custom unit shipments in 2015 and have
shipped more than 50 million semi-custom APUs as a critical and trusted partner to Sony and
Microsoft. Demand for game consoles looks strong for 2016, and we remain on track to generate
additional revenue from new semi-custom business in the second half of 2016.
We also began production shipments of our first 64-bit data center-class ARM SoC and expect
additional system introductions from our partners throughout 2016 as the ARM 64-bit
infrastructure ecosystem further develops.
Now turning to the year ahead, we remain focused on completing our strategic work around
three key growth pillars. First, in PCs, even in a declining overall market, we believe we can regain
client compute and discrete graphics share for the year, driven by gaming, VR, commercial, and
our most competitive product roadmap in more than a decade.
We have clear opportunities to regain GPU share in 2016 based on the performance per watt of
our new GPUs and software leadership. Earlier this quarter at CES, we announced our new Polaris
GPU architecture, which we expect to begin shipping in the middle of 2016. Polaris combined
significant design enhancements as well as 14-nanometer FinFET process technology to deliver
double the performance per watt of our current GPU offerings. Customer response has been
excellent, particularly in the notebook space, where for the first time ever there will be a GPU
architecture capable of bringing high-end gaming and VR experiences to thin and light
notebooks.
In client computing, our opportunities to regain share in 2016 will be driven by our design win
momentum, continued progress expanding into the commercial market, and reentering the high-
performance desktop market late in the year with our Zen-based Summit Ridge CPU.
Our second growth pillar is in the $15 billion-plus data center and infrastructure markets, driven by
our FirePro GPUs and next-generation server CPUs. Our Zen-based CPU development is on track
to achieve greater than 40% IPC uplift from our previous generation, and we are on schedule to
sample later this year. We have secured several key design wins with global OEMs for our Zen-
based server CPU and believe we can rapidly reestablish our presence in the data center when
we bring our new products to market in 2017.
With FirePro, we plan to leverage our upcoming Polaris architecture and suite of new software
tools designed to dramatically simplify GPU computing to accelerate the adoption of FirePro in
the HPC and data center markets.
Our third growth pillar is focused on further expanding the TAM for our products and
technologies through ramping our previously communicated semi-custom wins, converting
additional semi-custom pipeline opportunities, and gaining share in targeted embedded markets.
We also have near-term opportunities to strategically monetize our valuable IP in 2016 through
licensing and partnerships that are complementary to our product development efforts. I look
forward to sharing the initial results of our IP monetization strategy in the coming quarters.While we expect revenue to be lower in the first half of 2016 compared to the second half based
on the seasonality of the PC and game console businesses, we remain focused on successfully
executing our product and technology roadmaps and plan to return AMD to non-GAAP operating
profitability in the second half of 2016 and generate positive free cash flow from operations for
the year.
Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Devinder to provide some additional color on our fourth
quarter financial performance. Devinder?
Devinder Kumar `
Thank you, Lisa, and good afternoon, everyone.
In 2015, notwithstanding a difficult PC market and financial losses, we continued our multi-year
effort to position our business model by diversifying revenue and establishing a foundation for
improved financial components.
We made progress in stabilizing the Computing and Graphics segment and achieved strong
double-digit percentage revenue growth in the second half of 2015. We also reduced overall
channel inventory significantly from the prior year. In our EE and C segment, we had record
shipments of our semi-custom SoCs powering the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One game consoles.
In total, against the backdrop of a 28% revenue decline from 2014, we reduced our cost profile
with a 14% decrease in OpEx, managed our inventory down, and maintained our cash well within
our target range of $600 million to $1 billion.
Now let me provide the specifics of the fourth quarter. Revenue was $958 million, down 10%
sequentially, driven primarily by seasonally lower sales of semi-custom SoCs partially offset by
higher Computing and Graphics segment sales. The year-over-year decline was 23% due
primarily to lower client processor and chipset sales and lower game consoles royalties.
Gross margin was 30%, a seven percentage point improvement from the prior quarter, with 6
percentage points resulting from the impact of the $65 million inventory write down in Q3, and
the remainder primarily from improved product mix in the Computing and Graphics segment.
Operating expenses were $323 million, down $13 million from the prior quarter, primarily due to
global head count and ongoing expense control. Operating loss was $39 million and net loss was
$79 million with loss per share of $0.10 calculated using 791 million shares.
Net interest, other expense, and taxes were $40 million in the quarter compared to $39 million in
the prior quarter. The GAAP results include a $13 million tax settlement in a foreign jurisdiction.
Adjusted EBITDA was negative $5 million, improving from negative $55 million in the prior quarter.
Now turning to the business segments, Computing and Graphics revenue was $470 million, up
11% sequentially primarily due to higher notebook processor sales. This is the second consecutive
quarter of double-digit percentage revenue growth for this segment as we increased sales of
both our client compute and graphics processors in Q4. Computing and Graphics segment
operating loss was $99 million, improving from $181 million the prior quarter primarily due to
higher sales and the absence of a third quarter 2015 inventory write-down.
Enterprise, Embedded, and Semi-Custom revenue was $488 million, down 23% from the prior
quarter primarily due to seasonally lower sales of our semi-custom SoCs. The operating income
of this segment was $59 million, down from $84 million in the prior quarter driven primarily by
lower semi-custom product sales.Turning to the balance sheet, our cash and cash equivalents totaled $785 million at the end of the
quarter, up $30 million from the end of the prior quarter. Inventory was $678 million, down $83
million or 11% from the end of the prior quarter, primarily due to reduced levels of semi-custom
SoC inventory.
We have concluded our wafer reprofiling discussions related to the 2015 WSA amendment with
GLOBALFOUNDRIES and will be moving approximately $60 million of wafer purchases from that
amendment to later in 2016. To date, total wafer purchases under the 2015 WSA amendment are
approximately $1 billion, including approximately $150 million of wafer purchases, which were not
taken until early in our fiscal first quarter 2016. We are currently negotiating the 2016 WSA
amendment.
Debt as of the end of the quarter was $2.26 billion, flat from the end of the prior quarter,
including total borrowings of $230 million on a secured revolving line of credit unchanged from
the prior quarter. Free cash flow in the fourth quarter was a positive $21 million, an improvement
of $105 million from the third quarter of 2015.
Turning to our outlook for the first quarter of 2016, which is based on a 13-week quarter, AMD
expects revenue to decrease 14% sequentially, plus or minus 3%, driven by game console
seasonality and a cautious macro environment in China. Gross margin is expected to be
approximately 32%.
Non-GAAP operating expenses are expected to be approximately $320 million; interest expense,
taxes, and other to be approximately $42 million; cash and cash equivalents balances to be down
approximately $100 million from the end of the fourth quarter, including $70 million of cash
interest payments. This cash balance does not include any cash proceeds related to the ATMP JV
with Nanfong Fujitsu Microelectronics. We expect to close that transaction in these first half of
2016, pending regulatory and other approvals, and expect cash proceeds of approximately $320
million, net of taxes and other expenses, upon closure. Inventory is expected to be approximately
flat from fourth quarter levels.
Our fiscal year 2016 is based on 53 weeks. And we plan to take the extra week in our fiscal fourth
quarter. For the full year 2016, we expect revenue to grow year-over-year; non-GAAP operating
expenses between $320 million and $340 million per quarter as we continue to invest in
leadership products and in line with our expected revenue profile; interest expense, taxes, and
other to be approximately $45 million per quarter; cash and cash equivalent balances to be in the
optimal zone of $600 million to $1 billion; capital expenditures of approximately $70 million;
inventory to be down year-over-year; and to return to non-GAAP operating profitability in the
second half of 2016 and generate positive free cash flow from operations for the year.
In closing, as we begin the new year, we remain focused on financial and operational execution
and look forward to building on our second half 2015 product and road map momentum
throughout 2016 across the three areas that Lisa outlined: high performance PCs, the data
center, and TAM expansion through semi-custom and embedded opportunities.
With that, I'll turn it back to Liz. Liz?
Liz Morali `
Thank you, Devinder. Operator, can you please poll the audience for questions?
Q&AOperator
Yes, I sure can. So we'll take our first question from David Wong from Wells Fargo.
Q - `David M. Wong, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Thanks very much. I've been looking at your guidance for growth, year-over-year growth in
revenue in 2016. You're starting the – well, you're ending 20 – with the last quarter, your game
console revenues down year-over-year. Do you expect game console revenues to grow in 2016
as a whole? And what other things will drive overall growth for 2016?
A - Lisa T. Su `
David, thanks for the question. So let me give you a bit of color on sort of this – the guidance and
how we view 2016. So if you look at overall 2016, we do expect to grow revenue. And if you look
at our business, we see certainly the second half of revenue will be stronger than the first half
because of both of our businesses.
Game consoles, we see units going up 2016 to 2015. We've also said in the Enterprise,
Embedded, and Semi-Custom segment that we will be ramping some new design revenue in the
second half of 2016. So we see that as a positive growth driver. And then if you look overall at our
Computing and Graphics business, we do believe even in a down PC market that we have the
opportunity to gain share as a growth vector in Computing and Graphics. So those are the overall
drivers for the 2016 comments.
Q - `David M. Wong, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Okay, great. And just a quick follow-up, I understand that you don't break out all the details. But
can you give us some feeling as to whether your discrete GPU business is showing year-over-year
growth at the moment, either in the December quarter or expected for the March quarter?
A - Lisa T. Su `
So as you say, we don't go into that level of detail. I think what we have said is that we did see
growth in our discrete graphics business sequentially in both Q3 and Q4. As we look into 2016
with our discrete graphics business, we have a strong product portfolio. In particular, the ramp
and introduction of our new FinFET products, code-named Polaris, will happen in the middle of
2016, so that will be a 2016 growth driver. So certainly, we've seen some sequential improvement
in the second half of 2015, and we look forward to those product releases in 2016.
Q - `David M. Wong, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Great, thanks very much.
A - Lisa T. Su `
Thanks, David.
Operator
Okay, thank you. And our next question is from Ian Ing from MKM Partners. Ian, please go ahead.
Q - `Ian L. Ing, MKM Partners LLC `Yes, could you – thanks. Could you talk more about the channel business in light of your cautious
comments on macro in China? Are you seeing weakness potentially in the ODM business or the
white-box market?
A - Lisa T. Su `
Ian, I think overall if you look at the channel business in the second half of the year for us, second
half 2015 relative to first half 2015, we have made quite a bit of progress in the channel in terms
of just overall inventory levels. We saw a good quarter in the fourth quarter in both North America
and Europe. We did see a degradation in China towards the end of the fourth quarter. And I think
there are cautious comments throughout the industry about the early 2016 start for China. So I
think overall, what I would say is I'm pleased with the progress we've made in the channel. I think
in both the desktop channel as well as the AIB channel, we've made some progress in the
second half of the year. I think China is a factor as we go into the first quarter. But I think overall,
we still view the channel as a positive business for AMD and one in which we believe we can grow
share.
Q - `Ian L. Ing, MKM Partners LLC `
Okay, great. And then, Devinder, your OpEx guidance range, $320 million to $340 million in the
coming quarters, can you give a sense of the timing of some of the upcoming mask costs given
you've got Zen-based cores and Polaris coming up?
A - Devinder Kumar `
I would say I think you hit the nail on the head. There are new products coming out, and there are
some mask costs. Cores, I think that's more weighted towards later in the year. From a Q1
timeframe, we have given other guidance on the OpEx at the $320 million level compared to
where we ended up in Q4 of 2015. So yes, we do have support for the investments in the
products we need, and in particular the technology and product transitions that we have coming
out in 2016. And that's why you see a range in OpEx of between $320 million and $340 million.
And then the last factor that obviously affects the OpEx is obviously the revenue profile which, as
Lisa said earlier, is stronger in the second half of the year than the first half of the year.
Q - `Ian L. Ing, MKM Partners LLC `
Okay. And my last question, you're talking now about some GPU share gains in 2016. Does the
sole lot of that come from the Polaris launch starting midyear, or is that sustained business from
the R9 Series or a combination?
A - Lisa T. Su `
We have made some progress in with the R9 Series, particularly in the fourth quarter. I think as we
go forward, it's a combination of things. If you look at our investments in graphics, they really
include both hardware and software. So the Polaris family is excellent from a hardware standpoint
in terms of the performance per watt that we get. But we have a number of software initiatives
that we've started over the past couple months and will continue. And we see all of those
contributing to graphics momentum.
Q - `Ian L. Ing, MKM Partners LLC `
Okay, thank you.Thanks, Ian.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from `Sanjay Chaurasia, Nomura Securities International, Inc. from Nomura. Please go ahead.
Q - `Sanjay Chaurasia, Nomura Securities International, Inc. `
Hi, Devinder, one question on gross margin. I noticed that you're not providing gross margin
guidance for 2016. And I was wondering if you have clarity that your revenue would be up year on
year. What are some of the puts and takes here that's making you hold gross margin guidance?
A - Devinder Kumar `
I think the key is if you look back over the last few quarters, we have made progress on the gross
margin front, ending Q4 2015 at the 30% level, and the guidance specifically for Q1 of 2016 is
32%.
You're right, I haven't given guidance for the year. But some of the puts and takes are really the
mix of product as we get more into 2016 and then obviously the mix of business between our
Computing and Graphics segment and the EESC segment. In Computing and Graphics, we have
introduced some new products in the second half of 2015 and even going into 2016. And you
have some of the commercial success we have had, and that obviously helps gross margin. But at
the same time, we want to see how the year unfolds, in particular on the PC side of the house,
given some of the comments we made about caution in China in particular. So for the year, I'm
not giving guidance today. This is first quarter guidance at the 32% for gross margin. And we'll get
through the year as we get into the next one or two quarters.
Q - `Sanjay Chaurasia, Nomura Securities International, Inc. `
Okay, and as a follow-up, Lisa, I have a question now on ARM servers. You indicated you're
shipping Seattle, but at the same time in your guidance, you didn't mention anything about ARM
contributing in 2016. And my question is, is ARM servers a meaningful strategy for you in 2017 and
2018?
A - Lisa T. Su `
Sanjay, the ARM servers did start shipments. And we have shipped our first production unit. I think
we have some design wins with it. And I would call it a modest revenue contributor in 2016. We
still see ARM strategically as an interesting market for the infrastructure markets. But it is certainly
developing a bit slower than expected. So I think, overall, I think it's an important proof point in
terms of enterprise-class server architectures with ARM. But it's a modest revenue contribution in
2016.
Q - `Sanjay Chaurasia, Nomura Securities International, Inc. `
Thanks, Lisa.
A - Lisa T. Su `
Thank you.
OperatorOkay, thank you. So we'll take our next question from `Vivek Arya, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. from Bank of America Merrill
Lynch. Please go ahead with your question.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. `
Thanks for taking my question. Lisa, just to follow up on the last one on ARM servers, the
comment about progress being somewhat slower, do you think that's an AMD-specific trend or
does that apply to all the ARM server vendors?
A - Lisa T. Su `
Yeah, I mean, I think it's more of a market statement, Vivek, than an AMD-specific statement. I
think the overall commentary, maybe if I just expand a little bit, is the data center market is really,
really interesting. I think we all agree with that. I think x86 has a lot of momentum. And that's one
of the reasons that we've put quite a bit more emphasis on our x86 data center and
infrastructure play. That being said, I think ARM does have a lot of specific areas where it can
contribute, and it has done so. But I would say, in servers in particular, perhaps slower than
originally expected but still something to watch for the medium term.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. `
Got it. As I follow up, perhaps a longer-term question, which is, what is the strategy to actually get
to a meaningful earnings and cash flow growth? I understand on the macro environment is a little
tough right now. But the way I see it, a lot of the progress you guys are making on your
embedded products is being offset by the declines in your legacy businesses. And as the mix is
shifting to embedded products, gross margins are sort of holding around that 30% level, but
you're not really able to reduce cost. So sales are finding it tough to grow, right, with that offset.
Gross margins are not moving up that much. And you are now going to hold OpEx steady also. So
I'm just trying to understand what are we missing here that can help AMD be a more sustainably
profitable company. Thank you.
A - Lisa T. Su `
Sure, Vivek. So let me try and then Devinder can add if he has some comments. So I think what
you have to do is take a step back and look at overall – the progress in year 2015 from a
foundation standpoint and then what we hope to accomplish in 2016 and forward. I think the most
important message around sustainable profitability for AMD is around our product and
technology road map and ensuring that we grow share in our target markets. So that is certainly
the goal. I think if you look at some of the progress that we made in the second half of 2015, we
have seen a – some stabilization in our Computing and Graphics business and actually a return to
some sequential growth.
As we go forward into 2016, we certainly have to continue that momentum in both our client
compute as well as our graphics business in terms of gaining profitable unit market share. And
then as we go forward, we have our data center strategy as well as our semi-custom and our
new markets that will bring additional opportunities. So from a product standpoint, it is about
getting our technology out there. And I think we will enter 2016 with the strongest product
portfolio we've had in a long time. And we need to continue to work with our customers on
design opportunities and moving the platforms into production as we go through the year 2016.
A - Devinder Kumar `If I can add, Lisa, I think the other thing I would add is if you look at the couple of areas that Lisa
mentioned, data center in particular, but also the embedded space, as we talked about in our
Financial Analyst Day in May, those are businesses that command higher gross margins. So, Vivek,
to your point about the close margins, I think longer term, with that business kicking in 2017, we
believe that we can get closer to the longer-term model.
2016, we've guided to operating – I mean free cash flow positive from an operations standpoint.
And as we continue to manage the cost, as you said, especially on the OpEx side of the house,
improving the gross margin, in and of itself, obviously benefits the bottom line. And that's kind of
adding towards the longer-term model we outlined at the Analyst Day that we had in May of
2015.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. `
Thank you, one last quick clarification. What PC unit declines, Lisa, are you assuming for 2016?
Thank you.
A - Lisa T. Su `
So if you look at the current market projections, it's somewhere in the low-single digits. I think if
you were to talk to the customer side, it might go from low-single digit to mid-single digit. So
that's the environment that we are forecasting our unit share growth.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. `
Thank you, good luck.
A - Lisa T. Su `
Thank you.
Operator
Okay. Our next question comes from Stacy Rasgon of Sanford Bernstein. Stacy, your line is open.
Q - `Stacy Aaron Rasgon, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. First, I was wondering if you could elaborate a little more
on how you plan to gain share on PCs for the year especially since it looks like Zen isn't really
launching until the tail end of the year. It looks like you're starting Q1 already in the hole if I
compare your guidance versus Intel.
A - Lisa T. Su `
Okay, Stacy, why don't I start and again Devinder can add. So overall, if you look at PCs, I think
we'll have to wait until the numbers come out. But we believe we have gained a bit of share in
Q4. I think if you look at the driving factors behind that, Stacy, there were a couple factors in 2015.
I think we did a concerted effort to clean up some of our channel inventory both on the OEM side,
as well as in the DIY channel. So that factor will be gone in 2015, relative to 2016. I think if you look
at the product road map, I think the product road map is stronger. I think if you look at our
commercial business, that is also stronger so it's leading to a stronger product mix. So those are
the key factors.
Relative to the Q1 guidance, I'll make a comment about Q1 guidance overall. Our Q1 guidanceCustom business. The semi-custom business is historically significantly lower in the first quarter of
the year. If you look at the past couple years, it's been the case because we're coming off of a
strong holiday season. So I would say that that has to be factored into the guidance. And then if
you look at the Computing and Graphics business, I think what we're seeing is very consistent
with what's out there in the market and we believe in that market – that set of market conditions
we can gain share.
A - Devinder Kumar `
Another thing I would add, Stacy, is I think too early to tell from a viewpoint of your thinking in
terms of guidance for Q1 that just based on the guidance we lose share in Q1 in the PC space.
Q - `Stacy Aaron Rasgon, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Or by just looking you down 14% and Intel down what they are, there's a differential there.
A - Devinder Kumar `
Yeah, I think the key is to look at the guidance that we gave and trying to pass out where the
decline is and it's more weighted towards the EESC segment than the Computing and Graphics
segment.
Q - `Stacy Aaron Rasgon, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Got it. Okay, thanks. For my follow up...
A - Devinder Kumar `
Yeah, the other thing just – just one clarification.
Q - `Stacy Aaron Rasgon, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Yes.
A - Devinder Kumar `
I think that the thing to bear in mind, I think I said in my prepared remarks in our quarter in – our
quarter this year actually both from a viewpoint on the quarter and the year over year of a 53-
week year, and we have a 13-week quarter in Q1 as opposed to what the comparison you are
doing I think it's more on the 14 weeks as opposed to 13 weeks.
Q - `Stacy Aaron Rasgon, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Even if you correct for that – but okay. In terms of my follow-up, just very briefly, did your guidance
for positive free cash flow for the year include the proceeds from the back-end sale? And does
your guidance for 32% gross margin for next quarter contemplate you selling any of the inventory
that you wrote down in Q3?
A - Devinder Kumar `
So the first one is, no, it does not. The free cash flow from operations have been positive for the
year. It does not include the proceeds from the joint venture for the back-end facilities. And then
the guidance for the margin at 32% Q1 does not contemplate any sale of previously reserved
inventory.Q - `Stacy Aaron Rasgon, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Got it. And that free cash flow – that's not operating cash flow guidance, that's free cash flow
guidance...
A - Devinder Kumar `
Yeah. That's free cash flow. I think the way we define it is operating cash flow less CapEx.
Q - `Stacy Aaron Rasgon, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Got it, okay. Thank you, guys. Good luck.
A - Devinder Kumar `
Thank you.
A - Lisa T. Su `
Thanks, Stacy.
Operator
Okay. Our next question comes from Matt Ramsay from Canaccord Genuity. Please go ahead,
Matt.
Q - `Matthew D. Ramsay, Canaccord Genuity, Inc. `
Thank you very much, good afternoon. I think there's some – my observations looking at the
product road map is there's some pretty big hurdles passed, getting Polaris on FinFET, getting
Zen on FinFET over the next few quarters. I guess relative to some lower operating spending that
you guys are doing as a company, maybe, Lisa, you could lay out some priorities for how you're
going to roll out these products? I guess particularly I'm looking at how you balance semi-custom
versus discrete GPU, how you balance enterprise GPUs versus APUs when you roll out Zen. It
seems like quite a bit to take on given the lower spending levels as a business as a whole. And I
just wonder how you're prioritizing that versus guidance for the year. Thanks.
A - Lisa T. Su `
Sure. So, Matt, I think maybe a couple of comments. I will say that I am pleased with the execution
on engineering that we have accomplished over the last 12 months. I think we have passed some
significant hurdles. The transition to FinFET for us was very, very critical across our businesses, and
I feel good about the state of the progress there. As a result, as it reflects on 2016 spending, I
think Devinder commented earlier, but I would say that's why we're giving ourselves a range in
the OpEx from $320 million to $340 million. And we are being prudent in where we spend.
However, clearly, there's a significant focus on discrete graphics and what we can do in that
space. I think we're very excited about the momentum around our virtual reality and the
momentum in gaming. And we think that's a very good market for us.
I think relative to our CPU competitiveness and regaining competitiveness there, that is a very key
priority as well. So Zen across both our client computing as well as our server markets are a
priority. Relative – the good thing about our semi-custom business is it does rely on customer
investment to customize the roadmap. And so I think the combination of those things gives us a
reasonable envelope to execute the go-to-market around the product portfolio.Q - `Matthew D. Ramsay, Canaccord Genuity, Inc. `
All right, thank you. Thanks for that. And I guess as my follow-up, I think I took away as an
impression at least from CES a refocusing of investment on developers, particularly in the GPU
space. So, Lisa, maybe you could speak to that a little bit and how you guys are trying to I guess
balance the priorities of the semi-custom business in consoles and gaming with rekindling the
brand and maybe rekindling MindShare with developers in the PC gaming community. Thanks.
A - Lisa T. Su `
I think the Radeon Technologies Group has added a lot of focus to our graphics activities. And I
think, as you said, it's both a hardware and software statement. So the work we've done around
our drivers and trying to ensure that we have a good customer experience as well as a good
development experience is certainly there. I think the main takeaway is we know how to do this.
It's really a matter of getting the focus and getting it done.
Q - `Matthew D. Ramsay, Canaccord Genuity, Inc. `
All right, thanks. Good luck.
A - Lisa T. Su `
Thanks, Matt.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question is from Srini Pajjuri from CLSA Securities. Please go ahead.
Q - `Srinivas Reddy Pajjuri, CLSA Americas LLC
Thank you. Lisa, just going back to your annual guidance for growth, if I start from down 2014, I
think you have to model double digit for the next three quarters, which is well above seasonal for
you. So I'm trying to understand where the growth is coming from. Obviously, you said you expect
to gain share. But can you talk about the semi-custom win that's supposed to ramp in the second
half, how big that opportunity is? And when exactly do you expect those ramps to come in?
A - Lisa T. Su `
So actually let me try to frame it in this way. So if you look overall at our business, yes, we are
projecting full-year revenue growth 2016 compared to 2015. And so we would have to have some
significant growth as we go into the second half of the year. Independent of any new designs, the
semi-custom business naturally is significantly higher in the second half than in the first half,
especially third quarter. It's a peak for the business as we go into the holiday season. And we
continue to see that phenomenon as our customers are giving us their forecasts.
We expect the base semi-custom business or the base game consoles to continue unit growth in
2016 versus 2015. There will be some modest ASP decline with that. And then we expect to layer
over it some new semi-custom revenues starting in the second half of the year. So from what we
see, obviously a lot of things have to happen. But the semi-custom business is one that we've
been able to predict pretty well, given the customer long-term forecasts. And then we have to
continue the conversation around the Computing and Graphics business as we see how the
market sorts itself out in the first half of the year going into the stronger second half for the PC
business.Q - `Srinivas Reddy Pajjuri, CLSA Americas LLC
Okay. And then as a follow-up, I think, Lisa, it was last quarter you told us that you're looking to
monetize some of the IP properties that you have. Can you give us an update, based on your
discussions, how you see that opportunity short term and long term? Thank you.
A - Lisa T. Su `
Yes, so on the IP monetization strategy, we will continue to update that quarterly as we go
through the process. I think we have had a good – really a good discussion around where to go
there. I think there are several different avenues that we believe our IP will be valuable. I think on
the straight patent side, we've said before we have 10,000 patents that are over a substantive
number of technical areas, including graphics and microprocessors and other semiconductor
patents. Those can certainly be licensed, or in some cases there may be sales.
However, another area that we think has a lot of potential is the area of technology licensing,
where we can help partners accomplish their objectives with both patents and knowhow. So we
will update the results on that as we go through 2016, but we do believe it's a significant area for
us going forward.
Q - `Srinivas Reddy Pajjuri, CLSA Americas LLC
Thank you.
Operator
Okay, we'll take our next question from Ross Seymore from Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
Q - `Ross C. Seymore, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Thanks you letting me ask the question. Lisa, one for you on I guess what you'd call now the base
enterprise embedded in semi-custom business. You talked about the gaming SoC business
being up on a unit basis. But in 2015, that whole segment was down about 8% year over year. So I
guess my question is, I know new things are coming in the back half of this year. But what gives
you confidence that today's core business can actually remain anywhere close to flat considering
that it fell in 2015?
A - Lisa T. Su `
Ross, so let me give you some more color on the two areas, which might help. So on the base
EESC business, if you were to look at product revenues of semi-custom game console SoCs, they
were actually up a bit. So overall units were up double-digit percentage. ASP declined but less
than that, and so product revenue was up. What you saw as segment decline was actually legacy
revenue from server and embedded. If you remember, we have some legacy revenue based on
some of the older up-drawn products that we continue to sell. That has seen a drop-off as well as
our DCSS or SeaMicro business was there in 2014 that we exited in 2015. So that was the year-on-
year decline that was there.
And then I think as you go forward to 2016, I'm not being that specific about the base business,
but I will say I think units will be up. And we'll have to see exactly how much up as the markets go.
But we certainly don't see it substantially down, if that's what you're implying.
Q - `Ross C. Seymore, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `That's very helpful. I guess piggybacking off that to an earlier question, this time for Devinder, on
the gross margin side, correct me if I'm wrong here, but what I heard as to the answer to the
earlier question as to why you're not guiding for the full-year gross margin was partially because
of the unknown mix dynamic in revenues. To the extent that's true, does that imply that the gross
margin delta between the Computing and Graphics group and the EESC group, even with the
new ramps in semi-custom, is likely to remain as wide as it has in the last year or so?
A - Devinder Kumar `
I think we have to see how the year unfolds to be honest. I think Q1, like I said, the guidance is
32%. We need to see a mix of product. We have our new products being introduced in both the
businesses with the new design wins in the second half on the semi-custom side and then
obviously on the CG side. You've heard us talk while Graphics and Computing have new products
kicking in. And so from my standpoint, I want to see how it unfolds in terms of the mix of product,
mix of the business before getting into the gross margin. But fair to say, as you know, the semi-
custom business just the way the model was from an NRE standpoint has lower gross margin in
the Computing and Graphics side of the business. So that's a fair statement.
Q - `Ross C. Seymore, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Okay, thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Chris Rolland from FBR & Co. Chris, please go ahead.
Q - `Christopher Adam Jackson Rolland, FBR Capital Markets & Co. `
Hey, guys. Thanks for the question. On the semi-custom business, I'm sure you guys have looked
at prior console platform price cuts for customers and their effect on sell through. So I'd love to
know how you're thinking about that and a potential reacceleration. If that were to happen, do
you have any prior metrics you can share with us? And then also, I think I know the answer, but if
there was a platform price cut, should we still expect a slow and linear reduction in your ASPs or
might there be something more aggressive like a one-time step-down?
A - Lisa T. Su `
Yes, okay. So, Chris, if you look at the semi-custom cycle, and again, these cycles are hard to
predict. Through this year, through the end of 2015, the game console units are far ahead of the
previous cycles, so – on the order of $20 million units ahead of the previous cycle. When you look
at the significant price points, I would say their sub-$300 price points that start accelerating
demand and you saw some of that this holiday season. So that had some impact. When you –
your question overall in terms of acceleration. I think, again, the game console guys know how to
do this cost reduction, and they've done it very well. Our price or ASP reductions are not step
function reductions. They end up being pre-negotiated and in-line with cost reductions that we
have agreed to with our partners.
Q - `Christopher Adam Jackson Rolland, FBR Capital Markets & Co. `
Okay, very helpful. Also perhaps you can talk about ASPs in 2016, how you sort of see them
trending with Summit Ridge and server products and how big a driver is that for top line and for
profitability.I think it is very important that we see an improvement in our product mix. And that's something
that we've certainly been striving for in both our mobile products. And as we introduce higher
performance desktop and server products, we should see that reflected in the ASPs. So the mix
of business focusing on commercial versus sort of the low-end consumer will help all those things.
But when Devinder talks about some of the pluses and minuses on gross margin, it really is our
ability to increase and improve that mix in our overall business going forward.
Q - `Christopher Adam Jackson Rolland, FBR Capital Markets & Co. `
Thanks so much.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Hans Mosesmann from Raymond James.
Q - `Hans C. Mosesmann, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
Thanks. Hey, Lisa, a clarification on Zen. You said that you had some design wins already on the
server side of that road map. Can you give us a sense on what kinds of server wins and what kind
of an opportunity you see in terms of market share over the next several years as you come back
to the market?
A - Lisa T. Su `
Yeah, so, Hans, overall, on the Zen design wins, we have been engaged very early on with large
OEM and cloud providers on the Zen design point and the platforms that would be useful for
Zen. So we are – we have closed our first design wins. We are working very closely with these
OEM partners to make sure that they bring up their platforms concurrently with our own design
validation and testing. I think the main message is we are on track with the schedule that we
previously discussed in terms of sampling this year. We will introduce first in desktop. And so, we
are having conversations with some of the PC OEMs about getting their platforms ready for
desktop. And then we will go into enterprise server first full year in 2017.
Q - `Hans C. Mosesmann, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
Okay. And then as a follow up, what kind of performance point should we look at your initial Zen
in the server space? Is this kind of Xeon E3 class type products or E5s? Or maybe you can help
with granularity there if you can?
A - Lisa T. Su `
Yeah, so we believe that we'll be able to address, let's call it, 80% of the server CPU market with
our Zen class of products. That's the very high end but really the meat of the market.
Q - `Hans C. Mosesmann, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
Okay, thank you.
A - Lisa T. Su `
Thanks, Hans.
A - Liz Morali `
Operator, we'll take two more questions, please.Operator
Okay, we'll take our next question from Joe Moore from Morgan Stanley. Joe, your line is open.
Q - `Joe L. Moore, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Great, thank you. I wondered if you could talk about the discrete GPU business. You were first to
market with high bandwidth memory and saw the benefit of that. Did you see the benefit that
you'd hope for? And with your competitor ramping HBM, at some point I presume with this year,
does that blunt the momentum that you've seen on the GPU side?
A - Lisa T. Su `
I would say HBM was a very good technology. I think we got the performance benefit that we
expected. It is still at the high end of the cost point range and so that's why we've introduced it
just at the high end. I think HBM and all this 2.5D packaging technology is going be really
important over the next three years, so three years to five years but definitely over the next
three years. So I think being first to market, we've gotten a lot of experience on the technology.
We will continue to use high bandwidth memory in our portfolio. And as the cost goes down, it will
give us an opportunity to use it in a broader set of segments.
Q - `Joe L. Moore, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Great, thank you. And then as my follow up, have you talked about potentially semi-custom
products in virtual reality? And to the extent that you have or can, does that going to have the
same type of GPU requirement that we've seen on the PC platform or is it possibly scaled down
from that level of performance requirement?
A - Lisa T. Su `
So I think there are opportunities to do custom implementations of GPU for virtual reality. I think
the amount of graphics horsepower that's required and perhaps some of the form factors that
you want to go into being smaller and more portable would enable you to do that. I think it's early
to talk specifics, but I think the general idea that VR has a lot of requirements and doing
something custom might be helpful, I think, is absolutely on the mark.
Q - `Joe L. Moore, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Thank you very much.
A - Lisa T. Su `
Thanks, Joe.
Operator
Okay, thank you. We'll take our final question from `Stephen Chin, UBS Securities LLC from UBS. Stephen, your line is
open.
Q - `Stephen Chin, UBS Securities LLC `
Great, thanks for taking my questions. Lisa, if I could on the graphics roadmap side, with the
upcoming Polaris architecture later this year, that's going to come out about four to five quarters
after Fiji was released, which is a pretty good improvement in terms of timing or cadencecompared to the previous generation, so I guess my question is that, is this sort of one year plus
cadence for your GPU roadmap? Is this something that can be sustained going forward? And how
does that compare relative to the OpEx run rate that Devinder guided for this year? Is that the
right quarterly run rate for – that can sustain that type of graphics road map, first of all?
A - Lisa T. Su `
So I think the overall answer is we do believe the cadence of graphics requires annual refreshes
and we are going to invest to enable that. And I think the Polaris launch is significant because it's
also a change of process technology, which sometimes can run into other issues. But I think we
feel very good about where we are there. And you should expect that cadence to continue.
Q - `Stephen Chin, UBS Securities LLC `
Perfect. As my follow-up, just given some of the product announcements on the professional
commercial graphics side and some the design wins you were talking about with Dell, for
example, I was wondering if you could help provide any color from your customers in terms of
qualitative or even quantitative potentially in terms of the opportunity for AMD this year,
especially given the macro backdrop. Is that – is there going to be some large step function up
this year from those design wins? Or will the macro potentially play somewhat of a modest
headwind for that new opportunity?
A - Lisa T. Su `
Yeah, so I really view the macro as more as a headwind for the overall PC market. When you talk
about professional graphics, I think it's such a specialized market that it is more about the product
you offer and is it competitive and differentiated enough. I think it's fair to say that most of our
customers would say that the products are actually very good. So the overall product capability
and performance is good. Our issue has really been are we investing enough in the software
resources to help customers use some of our products? So I think on the professional graphics
space, we do believe it's a growth opportunity. I think we're going to continue to invest on some
of the software around professional graphics and continue to make steady progress into 2016.
Q - `Stephen Chin, UBS Securities LLC `
Great, thank you.
A - Liz Morali `
Thank you. That concludes our call for today. We would like to thank everyone for participating.
Operator, you may close the call now.
Operator
Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude your conference. You may now disconnect and
have a great day.