Q4 2017 Earnings Call

Operator
Greetings and welcome to the Advanced Micro Devices' Fourth Quarter 2017 Conference Call. At
this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the
formal presentation.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, `Laura Graves, Investor Relations & Communications Executive. Please go ahead, Laura.
`Laura Graves, Investor Relations & Communications Executive `
Thank you very much, and welcome to AMD's Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2017 Conference
Call. By now you should have had the opportunity to review a copy of our earnings release and
the CFO Commentary and Slides. If you have not reviewed these documents, they can be found
on the Investor Relations page of AMD's website, www.amd.com.
Participants on today's conference call are Dr. Lisa Su, our President and Chief Executive Officer;
and `Devinder Kumar, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & Senior Vice President, our Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. This is a live
call and will be replayed via webcast on our website.
I would like to highlight a couple of important dates for you. Dr. Lisa Su will present at the Morgan
Stanley Technology Media & Telecom Conference on February 26. And our first quarter quiet
time will begin at the close of business on Friday, March 16, 2018.
Today's discussion contains forward-looking statements based on the environment as we
currently see it. Those statements are based on current beliefs, assumptions and expectations,
speak only as of the current date, and as such, involve risks and uncertainties that could cause
actual results to differ materially from our current expectations.Additionally, please note that we will be referring to non-GAAP financials during this call, except
for revenue and segment operational results, which are on a GAAP basis. The non-GAAP financial
measures referenced are reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure in
the press release and CFO Commentary, again, both posted on our website.
Please refer to the cautionary statements in today's earnings press release and CFO
Commentary for more information. You'll also find detailed discussions about our risk factors in
our filings with the SEC, and in particular, AMD's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2017.
Now with that, I will hand the call over to Lisa. Lisa?
`Dr. Lisa T. Su, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you, Laura, and good afternoon to all those listening in today.
Three years ago we set out a strategic plan to reshape AMD to become a high-performance
computing leader through great products, deep customer relationships and a simplified and
focused business strategy. 2017 marked a key product and financial inflection point for AMD. Our
newest wave of high performance products and consistent execution created significant
momentum for our business over the last year.
Fourth quarter revenue of $1.48 billion grew 34% from the year-ago period, and we significantly
expanded our gross margin and improved profitability. For the full year, we increased annual
revenue by over $1 billion, resulting in 25% annual revenue growth. We expanded gross margin
and achieved full year profitability.
Looking at our Computing and Graphics segment in the quarter, we delivered very strong Q4
results as we continued the ramp of our Ryzen CPU and Radeon Vega GPU products. Computing
and Graphics segment revenue increased 60%, and we significantly improved operating income
from a year ago. Client Computing revenue increased both year over year and sequentially. We
outperformed seasonality in Q4, driving strong double-digit sequential revenue and unit growth
based on very strong sell-out of Ryzen processors throughout the holiday season.
We expanded our Ryzen CPU family further into the consumer market with the introduction of the
AMD Ryzen Mobile processor with Radeon Vega graphics, combining the power of our Zen CPU
and Vega GPU architectures into the fastest processor in the industry for ultrathin notebooks.
Ryzen Mobile-based notebooks are currently available from Acer, HP and Lenovo with multiple
new systems expected from all top five PC manufacturers in the first half of this year.
In Graphics, we delivered our second straight quarter of record GPU revenue with significantly
improved ASP and increased unit sales from a year ago, driven by strength across our entire
Graphics product portfolio. We saw a strong demand for our Polaris products across both the
gaming and blockchain markets, and Radeon Vega GPU revenue more than doubled from the
prior quarter, driven by strong gaming demand in the add-in-board channel, as well as strength
with strategic OEMs.
Apple launched the new iMac Pro, the most powerful Mac ever made, featuring AMD's Radeon
Pro Vega product in the quarter. We also began shipments of a new semi-custom GPU that is
integrated into an Intel multi-chip processor package. This semi-custom product opens up a
complementary market for our high-performance graphics products and extends the power of
Radeon graphics to more gamers and premium PC buyers.Our Professional Graphics business had its best quarter ever based on growing data center sales
highlighted by strong Radeon Instinct MI25 sales to a major cloud provider. For the full year,
Computing and Graphics segment revenue increased 54% over the prior year as we launched
more than 40 new high performance CPUs and GPUs.
Turning to our Enterprise Embedded and Semi-Custom segment, revenue increased 3% from a
year ago driven by the ramp of our EPYC processors. Q4 server revenue and unit shipments
increased sequentially and from a year ago as the market continues to qualify and deploy our
family of high-performance EPYC processors. We closed dozens of new server deals in the
quarter, securing key design wins with education, financial services and hosting companies.
We also had several key announcements in the quarter as we continued to see a steady drum
beat of adoption. Microsoft Azure became the first public cloud instance powered by AMD with
their L-Series of virtual machines for storage optimized workloads. Hewlett-Packard Enterprise
began volume shipments of the EPYC-based ProLiant DL385 Gen10 server, which recently set
world records for floating point performance. Baidu deployed AMD EPYC single-socket platforms
into their data centers to power AI, big data, and cloud computing services. And Dell EMC has
completed the qualification phase for their EPYC-based systems, and we'll be sharing more on
launch plans shortly.
Our reentry into the server market remains on track with a steady ramp of new platforms and
deployments across our OEM and hyperscale data center customers. Our Semi-Custom business
performed as expected in the quarter, as unit shipments declined from a year ago as we
completed the fifth year of the current game console cycle.
Before I close, I'd like to address the recent important security issues facing our industry. Security
is and always has been a fundamental focus for AMD across all our products. We are vigilant
about security in both our product design and throughout the product life cycle. As new exploits
arise like we have seen with Spectre and Meltdown, we are dedicated to responding with speed
and focus to keep our customers and partners informed and protected. As a reminder, we
believe Meltdown is not apropos to AMD processors.
For Spectre Variant 1, we continue actively working with our ecosystem partners on mitigations,
including operating system patches that have begun to roll out. We continue to believe that
Variant 2 of Spectre is difficult to exploit on AMD processors. However, we are deploying CPU
microcode patches that, in combination with OS updates, provide additional mitigation steps.
Longer term, we have included changes in our future processor cores, starting with our Zen 2
design to further address potential Spectre-like exploits. We continue to collaborate closely with
the industry on these vulnerabilities and are committed to protecting AMD users from these and
other security threats as they arise.
In summary, we are very pleased with our quarterly and full-year results. We made significant
progress in 2017 as we completely reshaped AMD's product portfolio and launched a highly
competitive set of new products. In 2018, we expect to increase our momentum with the next
wave of premium products and expanded go-to-market activities to increase our market
penetration.
In the client market, we will expand our Ryzen portfolio with new product launches, including AMD
Ryzen desktop processor with Radeon Vega graphics, which is expected to deliver the industry's
highest-performance graphics engine in a desktop processor; our second-generation Ryzen
desktop CPU, based on our higher-performance 12-nanometer Zen+ architecture; and foralso expanding our go-to-market activities with our OEM and retail partners, and we expect to
launch more than 60 new Ryzen OEM systems throughout 2018.
In graphics, the launch of Radeon Vega Mobile products will expand our Radeon Vega lineup into
high-end notebooks. Later this year, we plan to sample our first 7-nanometer Vega GPU
optimized for machine learning. In addition, we will continue increasing our software investments
around machine learning to address the growing demand for an open ecosystem in the GPU
compute space.
In the server market, we will continue to work closely with major cloud vendors and OEMs to ramp
their first-generation EPYC-based systems, while also completing key development milestones
on our next-generation Zen 2-based server platforms. Our Zen 2 design is now complete and we
will be sampling to our customers later this year. 2018 is clearly a defining year for the ramp of our
server business, and we remain focused on our goal of achieving double-digit market share in
this important market segment.
2017 laid a solid foundation with strong financial results and significant progress towards achieving
our long-term goals. I am even more excited about 2018 as we continue our journey to position
AMD as one of the premier long-term growth companies in the tech industry.
Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Devinder to provide some additional color on our fourth
quarter financial performance. Devinder?
`Devinder Kumar, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & Senior Vice President `
Thank you, Lisa, and good afternoon, everyone.
2017 was a pivotal year for AMD. We grew annual revenue 25% over 2016, with revenue growth
increasing every quarter on a year-over-year basis, culminating in growth of 34% in the fourth
quarter of 2017. In addition, we expanded gross margin by 3 percentage points and achieved
GAAP profitability for the year.
Computing and Graphics annual revenue grew 54% in 2017, while Enterprise, Embedded and
Semi-Custom annual revenue was flat. Both segments posted operating profits for the year and
it is particularly noteworthy that the Computing and Graphics segment was profitable for the first
time in six years. Based on the overall strength of the business and our new high-performance
products, we have set a strong foundation for achieving our long-term financial model.
Now let me turn to our results for the fourth quarter of 2017. Total revenue of $1.48 billion grew
34% year-over-year, driven by strong Radeon and Ryzen product demand. On a sequential basis,
revenue declined 10%, better than expected, driven by seasonally lower Semi-Custom sales and
partially offset by strong demand for new CPU and GPU products. Gross margin was 35%,
expanding 3 percentage points year-over-year, primarily due to a larger portion of revenue
coming from Computing and Graphics, driven by our new high-performance products.
Operating expenses were $412 million compared to $357 million a year ago. The increase was
driven primarily by R&D and new product go-to-market investments, partially offset by an R&D
credit related to a technology development agreement. Operating income was $103 million, up
significantly from $26 million a year ago, and operating margin was 7%, up from 2% a year ago.
AMD received a one-time tax credit of $18 million as a result of U.S. corporate tax reform, which
resulted in a net tax benefit of $8 million in the quarter. Net income was $88 million or diluted
earnings per share of $0.08 as compared to a net loss of $8 million or $0.01 per share in theyear-ago period. Adjusted EBITDA was $142 million compared to $60 million a year ago, and
adjusted EBITDA for 2017 was $445 million.
Now turning to fourth quarter business segment results. Computing and Graphics segment
revenue was $958 million, up 60% year-over-year, due to strong sales of our Radeon graphics
and Ryzen desktop processors. Computing and Graphics segment operating income was $85
million, compared to a loss of $21 million a year ago. The strong improvement was due to higher
revenue.
Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom revenue was $522 million, up 3% year-over-year, driven
by server revenue. Operating income was $19 million, down from $47 million a year ago, primarily
due to the absence of a licensing gain and ongoing R&D investments, partially offset by the
benefit from a richer product mix.
Turning to the balance sheet. Our cash and cash equivalents totaled $1.18 billion at the end of the
quarter, up from $879 million in Q3, due to significantly higher cash flow from operations.
Inventory was $739 million, down slightly from the prior year and down 7% from the prior quarter.
Total principal debt, including our secured revolving line of credit, was $1.7 billion. In the fourth
quarter, we deployed cash to repurchase $38 million of long-term principal debt, resulting in a
total reduction of long-term debt of $138 million in 2017. Our gross leverage ratio has improved
from 10 times in 2016 to 3.8 times at the end of 2017.
Free cash flow was $339 million, up sharply from $32 million in the prior quarter. Q4 is typically our
strongest cash-flow quarter, and for the year, free cash flow was $45 million negative due to
increased working capital in support of higher revenue.
Before we turn to guidance, I want to highlight that we are adopting the new revenue recognition
accounting standard effective 2018. We are adopting this standard under the full retrospective
method, which we believe is most helpful to our investors. For the full year 2017, the impact of the
accounting change to revenue was immaterial, and we expect the impact to be immaterial on
2018 annual revenue.
For the first quarter 2018, AMD expects revenue to be approximately $1.55 billion plus or minus
$50 million, an increase of 32% year-over-year, primarily driven by the strength of the ramp of
Ryzen, GPU and EPYC products. For comparative purposes, under the new accounting method,
Q1 2017 restated revenue was $1.18 billion and Q4 2017 restated revenue was $1.34 billion.
In addition, for Q1 2018, we expect non-GAAP gross margin to be approximately 36%, non-GAAP
operating expenses to be approximately $435 million or approximately 28% of revenue. Non-
GAAP interest expense, taxes and other to be approximately $30 million and inventory to be up
sequentially in support of higher revenue.
For 2018, we expect double-digit percentage growth in annual revenue, greater than 36% non-
GAAP gross margin; non-GAAP operating expenses to be approximately 28% of revenue. In
addition, we expect a tax rate of approximately 10% of pre-tax income for 2018.
In summary, we made significant progress in 2017. We are pleased with the momentum in our
business and delivered outstanding top line revenue growth, margin expansion and achieved
profitability for the year. We continue to make strong progress towards our long-term target
financial model, and our goal in 2018 is to deliver significant revenue growth and increased
profitability as we continue to invest in our multi-generational, high performance product
roadmaps.With that, I'll turn it back to Laura for the question-and-answer session. Laura?
`Laura Graves, Investor Relations & Communications Executive `
Thank you, Devinder. Operator, we're ready for our first question.
Q&A
Operator
Certainly. We'll now be conducting a question-and-answer session. Our first question today is
coming from `Hans Mosesmann, Analyst, Rosenblatt Securities, Inc. from Rosenblatt Securities. Please proceed with your question.
Q - `Hans Mosesmann, Analyst, Rosenblatt Securities, Inc. `
Thank you. Congrats on the quarter and guide, guys. Can you please give us the puts and takes
for the Q1 guide? There's lots of moving parts, and so I think that would be helpful. Thanks.
A - `Dr. Lisa T. Su, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, absolutely, Hans. Thanks for the question. So our Q1 revenue guidance was up 32% year-
on-year, and if you take a look at that, it's actually significantly better than our typical seasonality.
Primarily that's due to the new product strength. So we see GPUs, Ryzen and EPYC all up in Q1
and that's contributing to the strong guidance. We do expect that the Semi-Custom business will
be down in Q1 relative to the first quarter of 2017, just due to the fact that we're in the sixth year
of the cycle. So if you actually take the new product strength, the guidance is actually over 32%
year-on-year.
Q - `Hans Mosesmann, Analyst, Rosenblatt Securities, Inc. `
Okay. And the seasonality of the Semi-Custom will continue to be weaker on a year-over-year
basis for the rest of the year? Is that the way to model that?
A - `Dr. Lisa T. Su, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. So what you should expect with Semi-Custom is on a full-year basis the revenue will be
likely down compared to 2017 just due to where we are in the cycle, and units will be down. There
will be a bit of an adjustment to the seasonality as we move over to the new accounting
regulations with ASC 606, and so we'll see, let's call it, a bit more revenue in the first half and a
bit less revenue in the second half. So for the year, it is very similar and then we'll see a little bit of
shift in the quarterly profile. But again, back to your question, your initial question on the Q1
revenue guidance, it is really driven by new product strength.
Q - `Hans Mosesmann, Analyst, Rosenblatt Securities, Inc. `
Okay, great. Thank you.
A - `Dr. Lisa T. Su, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, Hans.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is coming from David Wong from Wells Fargo. Your line is now live.Q - `David M. Wong, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Thanks very much. Following on from your answer to Hans' question, Lisa, can you give us some
feel for the revenue, the new product momentum in terms of sales in the fourth quarter 2017 and
in particular, any numbers on Ryzen, EPYC or Vega, absolute sales dollars or sequential growth in
Q4 would be helpful.
A - `Dr. Lisa T. Su, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, absolutely, David. So we had a very strong Q4. If you look at the overall business, it was up
34% year-on-year. If you look underneath that, the Computing and Graphics business was very
strong. So we saw 17% sequential growth, significantly better than seasonality. That was up on
client, particularly Ryzen desktop, had a very strong holiday. We also started initial shipments on
Ryzen Mobile.
And then on the Graphics side, we saw strength in all product lines. So we saw strength in the
channel for both gaming as well as blockchain. We saw strength in OEMs as we ramped Apple
with our Vega processors. We also saw strength in professional graphics as we launched some
GPU compute into the data center. So overall, those were the puts and takes. Semi-Custom was
down sequentially. Again, that's as expected given the typical seasonality of the Semi-Custom
business.
Q - `David M. Wong, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Great. Thanks. And, Devinder, it might have been nested in what your prepared remarks, but do
you expect your net debt will grow in the seasonally weak first half of 2018? And if so, how much
might net debt go up?
A - `Devinder Kumar, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & Senior Vice President `
Net debt, when you say net debt, just explain that, David. What do you mean by that?
Q - `David M. Wong, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Well, debt minus cash. Well, do your cash balances fall during the first half of the year?
A - `Devinder Kumar, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & Senior Vice President `
The debt levels came down in 2017 because we did repurchase some of the long-term principal
debt to the tune of $134 million. And in the guidance we provided we said that 2018 would be
free cash flow positive. So if anything, I guess the net debt as you look at it would come down as
we get to the second half of 2018.
Q - `David M. Wong, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
But any help in the first half? What happens to the net debt in the first half?
A - `Devinder Kumar, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & Senior Vice President `
Typically, we invest in the business. As you saw in the guidance, I expect inventory to be up in Q1,
and obviously with the strength of the business momentum that Lisa just talked about, we're
prepared to go ahead and purchase product or wafers to go ahead and fund the business.
Q - `David M. Wong, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `Great. Thanks very much.
A - `Dr. Lisa T. Su, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, David.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is coming from `Mark Lipacis, Analyst, Jefferies LLC from Jeffries. Your line is now live.
Q - `Mark Lipacis, Analyst, Jefferies LLC `
Thanks for taking my question. Lisa, I was hoping you could give us a little more color on EPYC.
Are we starting to get past pilot programs now and getting deployed into production
environments? And can you give us a sense of the take of EPYC in the cloud versus enterprise?
Thanks.
A - `Dr. Lisa T. Su, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, absolutely, Mark. So, look, we are pleased with where we are with EPYC. We think we've
made very nice progress in the fourth quarter. We announced that the large OEMs are now
qualified and starting to ship to end customers. And so we have seen very nice design wins in
sales at some marquee end customers. If you look across education, financial services and the
hosting business, those are looking good.
On the cloud side, we have publicly talked about Microsoft Azure as well as Baidu adopting EPYC
in their cloud environments. We are working with a number of the other cloud players to adopt
EPYC, and we're working on some of the optimizations required there. So, overall, we're very
pleased with the momentum. I think we always knew that there was a qualification cycle to go
through, but we've gotten through some of the major qualifications here in the fourth quarter.
And especially, as we look in December, we actually closed a number of new deals with the
platforms being available for sale.
Q - `Mark Lipacis, Analyst, Jefferies LLC `
Thanks. That's helpful. And then, on the C&G side, very impressive growth. Can you give us a
sense of to what extent that growth was driven by Ryzen products versus Radeon? And then, on
the Radeon side, can you give us a sense of what blockchain was to the contribution and how
you're viewing the sustainability of that? It seems like it's getting consistently strong. So
appreciate any updates on your view on that segment. Thank you.
A - `Dr. Lisa T. Su, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, absolutely, Mark. So, look, on the Computing and Graphics segment, we grew about $140
million sequentially. And if I look at that growth, it was across Ryzen and Radeon. If you look at
blockchain, in particular, our estimates are that it was about 1/3 of the growth, 1/3 of the $140
million. And then the rest of the 2/3 are around the GPUs – the other segments of GPUs and
Ryzen.
When I look going forward, clearly, blockchain is a little bit of a fluid and dynamic market. We did
see some strength as we went into December. We see strength as we're going into the first
quarter. I'm sure many of you have seen that the graphics channel is very low, and we're certainly
working to replenish that channel environment. So we think that graphics in general is going to be
strong into the first half and that's some of what's contributing to our strong Q1 guidance. Butoverall, my comments are we're seeing nice momentum across Ryzen and all of the GPU
segments, which is important for us as we go into 2018.
Q - `Mark Lipacis, Analyst, Jefferies LLC `
Very helpful. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is coming from Stacy Rasgon from Bernstein Research. Please
proceed with your question.
Q - `Stacy Aaron Rasgon, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. My first is on gross margin. Can you give us a feeling –
do you expect Q1 to be the trough for gross margins through the year, given you're guiding in line
to maybe a little above for the year where you're guiding Q1? And can you give us some feeling
on the puts and takes of gross margins as we go through the year, particularly around things like
business mix, lower seasonality and lower growth in Semi-Custom versus some of the new
products, for example?
A - `Devinder Kumar, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & Senior Vice President `
Yeah, Stacy, I can take that and then, Lisa maybe can add. As we start the year, as Lisa said, we
do see momentum from the new products, the Ryzen, the GPUs and EPYC, and margin is up on a
sequential basis. We're starting off the year at 36%. We previously said that for 2018 we expect
margin to be greater than 36%. So it is a good start for the year, starting off well with the 36%
guide. Obviously, the new products are having benefit then. And then the one thing I will add
from what Lisa said earlier, in particular, with the Semi-Custom business timing is there is some
incremental Semi-Custom revenue that gets recognized in Q1 as compared to the past from a
timing in the year standpoint. But overall, I think the 36% is where we are starting off in Q1 and
very pleased with that.
A - `Dr. Lisa T. Su, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, Stacy the-
Q - `Stacy Aaron Rasgon, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
So you do believe you – okay, I'm sorry.
A - `Dr. Lisa T. Su, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Go ahead.
Q - `Stacy Aaron Rasgon, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
I was just saying, so you do believe Q1 is probably a trough in terms of gross margins?
A - `Dr. Lisa T. Su, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Clearly, Stacy, the first half of the year is usually the weaker half of our business because we are a
consumer-led business. So starting off with 36% margin in Q1 is a good start. And we do expect
that the new products will continue to ramp as we go through 2018. So I think that's how we view
the puts and takes going forward.Q - `Stacy Aaron Rasgon, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Thank you. For my follow-up, I know your competitor saw some unusual strength in the enterprise
market and enterprise spending in Q4. I understand your exposure at this point to those
enterprise wins is certainly less, but what are you seeing in terms of enterprise ramp? Are you
seeing anything unusual or more or less sustainable in terms of strength versus what you'd
ordinarily expect to see this time of the year?
A - `Dr. Lisa T. Su, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, Stacy, I think your question is about the market, and our market share is still relatively low.
So our exposure with EPYC is there's a lot of activity. There's a significant amount of activity with
customers, both – in all segments, cloud and enterprise, although I wouldn't say that that's
necessarily a market trend. I would say that's more sort of where we are with our EPYC
qualifications and ramp. And so we don't see – for example, we don't see that Q4 was especially
strong and there will be a drop-off in Q1. In fact, we expect that EPYC should grow as we go
through Q1 and the rest of 2018.
Q - `Stacy Aaron Rasgon, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Got it. Thank you, guys.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is come coming from `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thanks for taking my question and congratulations on the strong growth outlook. For my first one,
just a clarification. I know it's been asked a few times, but what would your Q1 sales and gross
margin outlook have been under the older accounting methodology?
A - `Devinder Kumar, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & Senior Vice President `
Vivek, we're adopting the new revenue accounting standard under what is the full retrospective
method because we believe this is most helpful to the investors, and for good measure we have
provided the Q1 2017 and Q4 2017 on a restated – we have restated the revenue, and obviously
the Q1 2018 guidance under ASC 606. We will publish the restated numbers as part of our Form
10-K. And from a Q1 2018 standpoint, if you look at the numbers, let's say if you compare to Q4
2017 on a sequential basis, the revenue is up quarter on quarter and largely that's the strength of
the new products in Q1 2018.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
All right. I ask that you're starting the year at a very strong 30%-plus base and you're saying
double-digit growth for the year and double-digit is a very, very wide range. So, Lisa, could you
help us at least get some level set of what double-digit growth means for the year?
A - `Dr. Lisa T. Su, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. So we are starting the year strong, Vivek. I think maybe to give you a little bit more color on
your question as it relates to the Q1 guidance, we are – as Devinder said, we are giving all
guidance and forward-looking comments on ASC 606. However, the largest impact, particularlyas it relates to revenue, is really sort of the Semi-Custom business. As you know, our Custom
business is a little unique because it's a singular customer. And so, under the new revenue
recognition rules, we would actually take revenue with non-cancelable POs.
So that impact in the first quarter sort of guidance would have been about, let's call it $100 million
or about – thereabouts. And so that might help you calibrate where we are. I think any way you
look at it, the new product strength is the most important factor, but we also want to be clearer
on what the accounting rule impact would be. Does that help you, Vivek?
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Yeah, Lisa, very helpful. And for my follow-up, traditionally there has been a very large price delta
between your and Intel product; sometimes 50%, 60% plus in PCs and servers. As you look
ahead with the new products, are you starting to see some of that price converge? Like are you
being positioned in segments where you had not been previously so you can get the benefit of
much better ASPs than you've had historically?
A - `Dr. Lisa T. Su, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, Vivek, absolutely. So, if we look in 2017 full year and look at our ASPs in the Client business,
the Graphics business and the Server business, albeit it's early, we are definitely seeing a
significant ASP expansion as a result of the fact that our products are now covering the higher
end of the market. So we're competing very well in the higher end of the market. I expect that
there's still a delta, but that delta is converging, given our product coverage.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is coming from John Pitzer from Credit Suisse. Please proceed with
your question.
Q - `John William Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
Good afternoon, guys. Congratulations on the strong results, and thanks for letting me ask a
question. Lisa, while the year-over-year gross margin improvement has been strong, both in the
calendar sort of third quarter, fourth quarter and now on the guide in the first quarter, the
sequential gross margin leverage is perhaps a little bit less than I would have thought, especially
as you move into Q4 and Q1, and Semi-Custom comes down.
Now I know there's been sort of a lag effect as Ryzen grows as a percent of the mix. But maybe
you can help me understand where we are as far as Ryzen as a percent of the mix being a
positive influence on gross margin. And then just relative to your long-term gross margin target of
40% to 44%, how far does Ryzen get you before you become more dependent on EPYC ramps
later this year into 2019 and beyond?
A - `Dr. Lisa T. Su, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Sure. So a lot of different questions there, John. Let me try to unpack it there. So let's talk about
sort of Ryzen and sort of the margin, both Q4 and Q1. On the Ryzen, to give you sort of a flavor
of where we are in terms of the new product ramp, Ryzen Q4 was probably in the high 40
percentage of our overall Client business, and we expect that that will be over 50% starting inthe first quarter of 2018. And so that ramp definitely helps, and it's part of our sequential 100
basis point improvement from Q4 to Q1.
I think in terms of overall new product revenues, if you take Ryzen, EPYC, and then our new
Graphics products in totality, in Q4 they were about 33% of our revenue, and we expect that to
ramp nicely as we go into 2018. So I think we are getting the margin leverage. The margin
leverage certainly from Q4 to Q1 is due to the fact that we have strong products.
And the thing that's a little bit different this quarter is because we are guiding under ASC 606,
and as a result of that, Semi-Custom, which is typically seasonally down Q4 to Q1, in this case it's
actually up a little bit Q4 to Q1. And so that's a headwind on the margin, but overall, we're still up
100 basis points. Does that kind of get to the gist of your question?
Q - `John William Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
No, that's helpful, Lisa. And then maybe a second question, just on the OpEx. Revenue for the
calendar first quarter significantly above where the Street was expecting, but so was OpEx. And
I'm curious, is there any sort of unusual expenses around Spectre or Meltdown that's going on?
And then to continue that, for the full year you're guiding OpEx about in line with your long-term
target, so is there opportunity that your long-term target can come down and maybe 28% of
revenue on OpEx comes down over time? Or how should we think about that leverage?
A - `Dr. Lisa T. Su, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. So, look, so relative to OpEx, I think our long-term guidance was 26% to 30%. Calendar
year 2017 we were roughly approximately 30% if you look at it for the full year basis. We're
guiding 2018 to approximately 28%. So we're starting to see some of that leverage. Granted,
we're starting off in Q1 which is usually a low quarter for us. And then as we go forward, we're
certainly looking at more leverage in the model, but we are investing in sort of the key new
products. We are investing in software. And I think that's absolutely the right thing for us to do.
As it relates to any unusual expenses with Spectre and Meltdown, there are no particular unusual
expenses related to that. I think what we are doing is we're investing in the business. We believe
strongly in the product roadmap that we have, and given the significant revenue growth, we
believe we can afford to invest in the business.
Q - `John William Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
Perfect. Thanks, guys.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is coming from Joe Moore from Morgan Stanley. Your line is now
live.
Q - `Joe L. Moore, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Great. Thank you. I wonder if you could talk a little about the product that you announced with
Intel over the course of Q4, the Semi-Custom Graphics product. I guess interesting to see the
two companies working together. Can you put that product into context for us? Are there things
that you could do going forward? And then is that going to be in the Semi-Custom part of
revenues or in the Compute part? Thank you.
A - `Dr. Lisa T. Su, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `Sure, Joe. So, the product that we announced with Intel was a Semi-Custom Graphics product. So
what we're doing is we're selling silicon to them and then they're packaging it in a multichip
module, and they're marketing it and selling to end customers.
From my standpoint, this is an excellent way to get more Radeon GPUs in as many applications as
possible, and so our strategy is we'll build our own standard products, we will build custom
products for customers. And then look for how do we get Radeon in as many places as possible.
For this Graphics revenue because it's very similar to discrete graphics, we're actually reporting it
in the Computing and Graphics segment, and we did see some initial revenue from that in Q4.
But it is, as I said, it's a Semi-Custom chip that is sold to them with their – to be packaged with
their products.
Q - `Joe L. Moore, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Great. Thank you very much.
A - `Dr. Lisa T. Su, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you. Next question?
Operator
Thank you. Certainly. Our next question is coming from Ross Seymore from Deutsche Bank. Your
line is now live.
Q - `Ross C. Seymore, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Thanks. Lisa, one for you back on the crypto side of things. It was great to see the incremental
color that you gave, but is there any way you could give an absolute dollar amount whether it be
in the fourth quarter or just full year 2017, and how much you believe crypto contributed to your
revenues?
A - `Dr. Lisa T. Su, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, absolutely, Ross. So it is hard to estimate. I think we said before it's hard to estimate just
given some of the crypto sort of GPUs are sold through the same channels as our gaming
channel. I previously said we thought it was about mid-single digits percentage of our annual
revenue. It may be a little bit higher than that, let's call it a point or so, but it's – really a lot of our
growth is outside of the blockchain market.
What we see in the market, though, is – because I know there's a lot of conversation about this
out in the market, it is an important market. I mean, we're now seeing it from the standpoint of
there is a lot of dynamic movement in the market. But it is consuming a lot of GPUs. It's a good
part of our business, and we intend to sort of work with the large players to better forecast that
business going forward.
But I don't want that to take away from the fact that we had significant growth in the GPU
business outside of blockchain as we really ramp our Vega product line, as we ramp our GPU
compute product line, as we ramp Apple. And so those are all important pieces of our GPU story.
Q - `Ross C. Seymore, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Perfect. That's helpful. As my follow-up I wanted to go back to a statement you said in answeringabout $100 million benefit. Is that up sequentially you're talking about relative to the fourth
quarter pre or post the ASC adjustment? Just trying to tie this all together and kind of get the
moving parts behind your guidance because it is much higher than I think where many of us
expected it to be.
A - `Dr. Lisa T. Su, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. So let me try and Devinder may keep me – make sure that we're clear here. So the $100
million that I referenced was relative to the Q1 2017 adjustment, which was approximately $200
million or so. If you look at it on a sequential basis, it won't be up $100 million, it will be up
somewhat less than that. But typically we're quite – we're down quite a bit in Semi-Custom, and
so it is a different seasonal pattern than we would normally see.
Q - `Ross C. Seymore, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is coming from `Brett Simpson, Analyst, Arete Research Services LLP from Arete Research. Your line is now
live.
Q - `Brett Simpson, Analyst, Arete Research Services LLP `
Yeah. Thanks very much. I just had a question on crypto. I mean, if I look at the amount of hash
compute being added to Ethereum in January, I mean, it's more than the whole of Q4. So we've
seen a big start to the Q1. So I'm just wondering what's the balance or the sort of mix in your C&G
division between GPU and CPU sort of looking at Q4 and how it changes into Q1. And is there any
sort of acute shortages here? I mean, can you foundry partners – do they have the capacity to
support you with the ramp of GPUs at the moment? And is there enough HBM2 DRAM to source
as well? Thank you.
A - `Dr. Lisa T. Su, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, right. So in relation to your question about Client and Graphics, look, both the Client
business and the Graphics business grew sequentially in Q4, so both of them were strong
businesses for us. And as I said, there are – crypto was one driver, but there were numerous
other drivers as well.
Relative to just where we are in the market today, for sure, the GPU channel is lower than we
would like it to be, so we are ramping up production. At this point, we're not limited by silicon per
se, so our foundry partners are supplying us. There are shortages in memory and I think that is
true across the board, whether you're talking about GDDR5 or you're talking about High-
Bandwidth Memory. We continue to work through that with our memory partners, and that will be
certainly one of the key factors as we go through 2018.
Q - `Brett Simpson, Analyst, Arete Research Services LLP `
Okay. Thanks very much. And just to follow up on 7-nanometer, I mean, a lot being talked about at
7-nanometer with TSMC ramping fairly shortly, and also Intel being perhaps a little delayed on 10-
nanometer. Can you talk about what your plans are for 7-nanometer in 2018? Can you ship a CPU
platform based on 7 nanometer this year or are you also seeing some delays in 7-nanometer with
your foundry partners?A - `Dr. Lisa T. Su, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
So relative to 7-nanometer, 7-nanometer is a very important node for us. We're doing very active
development to the 7-nanometer across our GPU and our CPU portfolio. Relative to shipment
dates, I'll wait until we get closer to production before we talk about that. But what we have said
is that we will sample a GPU here in 2018 targeted at machine learning and that will be in 7-
nanometer technology. And we are also actively working on CPU products in the 7-nanometer
technology as well.
Q - `Brett Simpson, Analyst, Arete Research Services LLP `
Okay. Thanks very much.
A - `Laura Graves, Investor Relations & Communications Executive `
Thank you, Brett.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is coming from `Tristan Gerra, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. from Baird. Your line is now live.
Q - `Tristan Gerra, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. `
Hi. Good afternoon. You've mentioned that you expect very strong demand from blockchain in
the first half. How aggressive are you in terms of embedding that type of trend in your Q1
guidance? Just trying to get a sense of the contribution from that segment in your Q1 guidance.
And also, is the margin profile any different than the rest of your GPU business?
A - `Dr. Lisa T. Su, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
So I think as we said on the Q1 guidance, it is really strength across our new products, so it's not
just the blockchain or crypto conversation. That's one factor. But we do see strength across the
rest of our GPU business, as well as our CPU business with Ryzen and EPYC. So, of course, we
take into account what we believe the demand will be here in the first quarter, and we think we're
fairly balanced with that. And overall, given the current lead times, I think we have good visibility
into what the order pattern is and so on and so forth.
So I think the key point is crypto is strong right now, but we do believe that it is a very dynamic
environment and so we have to watch that very closely. And there are numerous other product
drivers in our Q1 guidance, including the CPU business, which is an important driver.
Q - `Tristan Gerra, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. `
Okay. And as a quick follow-up, in terms of the ramp of EPYC, should we look at a kind of linear
ramp throughout this year? Or is there more of an inflection point at any given time that you
would expect – or any given quarter that you will expect this year?
A - `Dr. Lisa T. Su, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
I do expect a steady ramp of EPYC as we go through the year. Our target is to be at mid-single
digit unit share by the end of 2018. And so there would be significant revenue from EPYC as we
are in the second half of 2018. But certainly, I would expect a steady ramp throughout the year.
Q - `Tristan Gerra, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. `Great. Thank you.
A - `Laura Graves, Investor Relations & Communications Executive `
Thanks, Tristan. Operator, we have time for a couple more questions, please.
Operator
Certainly. Our next question is coming from `Srini Pajjuri, Analyst, Macquarie Capital (USA), Inc. from Macquarie. Your line is now live.
Q - `Srini Pajjuri, Analyst, Macquarie Capital (USA), Inc. `
Thank you for squeezing me in. Just a couple of clarifications. First, I guess, Devinder, the
accounting change, you kind of gave us an explanation how the seasonality works for Q1. I'm just
curious as to how your seasonality changes as we go into Q2, Q3 and Q4. Because historically,
you were down in Q1 and kind of flattish in Q2, and then up in Q3 and Q4. So just trying to
understand how the accounting change impacts that seasonality.
A - `Devinder Kumar, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & Senior Vice President `
Yeah. I think the most significant change is from our Semi-Custom business where you're going to
see acceleration of revenue in the first half as opposed to where it used to be weighted towards
the second half of the year. And that's just a timing issue within the year. Annually, there's not
much impact. It's pretty immaterial from that standpoint. But timing-wise, you will see recognition
of revenue earlier in Q1 and Q2; and then, obviously, we still have it in Q3 and Q4. So seasonality
for the Semi-Custom business changes, as Lisa said earlier, typically Q4 to Q1 is down, and now
Q4 to Q1 is up.
A - `Dr. Lisa T. Su, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. But I would add, though, just for that seasonality question, I think what you'll see is perhaps
a little bit of a flatter profile. We used to have a very high peak in Q3, and now I think you'll see a
little bit of a flatter profile with sort of second quarter still be higher than first quarter, third
quarter higher than second quarter, and then fourth quarter we would expect to be down.
Q - `Srini Pajjuri, Analyst, Macquarie Capital (USA), Inc. `
Great. And then, Lisa, just another clarification on Ryzen. Obviously, you're seeing very strong
ramps. I would have expected you to see a little bit of ASP benefit in Q4, but it looks like ASPs
came in flattish. I'm just curious as to why they're only flat, not up sequentially.
A - `Dr. Lisa T. Su, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, sure. So I think when you look at the ASPs, it's very dependent on the actual mix. And so
underneath the client ASPs, we actually saw desktop a little bit lower, and that's because the
desktop sales in the holiday season were a little bit more weighted to Ryzen 3, which has a lower
ASP than some of the Ryzen 5 and Ryzen 7. But we actually saw mobile ASPs up because we saw
the beginning of the shipments of Ryzen Mobile, which pulled ASPs up. So it's just the detailed
mix of the business. But overall, I think we saw very strong growth.
Q - `Srini Pajjuri, Analyst, Macquarie Capital (USA), Inc. `
Great. Thank you.Operator
Thank you. Our final question today is coming from `Ambrish Srivastava, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States) from BMO. Your line is now
live.
Q - `Ambrish Srivastava, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States) `
Hi. Thank you very much, Devinder. I just had a question on free cash flow since I pestered you so
much on that. Good to see a solid quarter on that front. But my question really is, how should –
you've guided for an increase in free cash flow for next year. Should we expect the same kind of
dynamic that you've had this year seasonality in Q4? And then also, you had to build up working
capital and inventory specifically because of the dynamics on memory and the tightness earlier in
the year. So what are some of the puts and takes there, if you could please help us with that?
Thank you.
A - `Devinder Kumar, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & Senior Vice President `
Yeah. I think you rightly observed. I mean, our strong quarter from an overall standpoint where
cash is concerned and cash from operations are very strong in Q4 and free cash flow was $339
million, ending at the $1.18 billion. There is typically pressure on cash in the first half of the year just
given the fact that the revenue is there, and we buy the wafers to support the business and then
it gets better in the second of the year.
As far as working capital is concerned, it's a little bit early to tell. I think it depends upon how the
revenue unfolds. Obviously, we have managed it pretty well, but supporting the higher revenue
from the strength of the business is going to be the key from that standpoint. But to your point, I
do feel very good as to where the cash ended up. I do feel very good with how we have done
from our managing the balance sheet for working capital and the debt levels, and 2018 we are
guiding to free cash flow being positive for the year.
Q - `Ambrish Srivastava, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States) `
Okay. And a quick follow-up for you, Lisa. If you look at the double-digit growth for this year, what
are the absolute dollar drivers in terms of which product categories do you expect within EPYC,
GPUs for machine learning, or for Ryzen, if you were to rank order those in terms of absolute
dollar impact this year?
A - `Dr. Lisa T. Su, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. So if I were to rank order those, I would say that both EPYC and Ryzen as we deploy Ryzen
more into the notebook form factor, which is a very significant OE ramp, are very key for that. I
think GPUs and machine learning are also a strong growth driver for us, but just given sort of
where we are from the base that we're starting with, I think the other two are just more
significant.
Q - `Ambrish Srivastava, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States) `
Okay. Thank you very much.
A - `Laura Graves, Investor Relations & Communications Executive `
Thank you, Lisa. Thank you, Devinder. And to everyone who joined our call today, we appreciate
you joining the fourth quarter conference call. We look forward to speaking with you again soon.Operator
Thank you. That does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your line at this time,
and have a wonderful day. We thank you for your participation today.