Q4 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Hello, and welcome to the AMD Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2021 Financial Results Conference
Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will
follow the formal presentation. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference is being
recorded.
It's now my pleasure to turn the call over to `Laura Graves, Corporate Vice President, Investor Relations, Corporate Vice President and Investor
Relations. Laura, please go ahead.
`Laura Graves, Corporate Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, and welcome to AMD's fourth quarter and fiscal year end 2021 financial results
conference call. By now, you should have had the opportunity to review a copy of our earnings
release and accompanying slideware. If you have not reviewed these documents yet, they can be
found on the Investor Relations page of amd.com. Participants on today's conference call are
Dr.`Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and `Devinder Kumar, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, our Executive Vice
President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. This is a live call and will be replayed via webcast
on our website.
Before we begin, I would like to note that Dan McNamara, Senior Vice President and General
Manager, Server, will attend the Virtual Susquehanna Financial Group 11th Annual Technology
Conference on Thursday, March 3. Our first quarter 2022 quiet time is expected to begin at the
close of business on Friday, March 11. And AMD will host its 2022 Financial Analyst Day on
Thursday, June 9.
Today's discussions contain forward-looking statements based on current beliefs, assumptionscause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. Please refer to the
cautionary statement in our press release for more information on factors that could cause the
results to differ. We will refer primarily to non-GAAP financial measures during this call. The full
non-GAAP to GAAP reconciliations are available in today's press release and the slides posted on
our website.
Now, with that, I will hand the call over to Lisa. Lisa?
`Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Laura, and good afternoon to all those listening in today. 2021 was an outstanding
year for AMD, as we exceeded our aggressive growth goals and delivered another record year.
Each of our businesses grew significantly and set new annual revenue record, highlighted by data
center revenue more than doubling year-over-year. Annual revenue grew 68% to a record $16.4
billion and we expanded gross margin for the sixth straight year. We also delivered record net
income and EPS, both of which more than doubled year-over-year.
Looking at the fourth quarter, we ended the year exceptionally strong with our sixth straight
quarter of greater than 45% year-over-year revenue growth. Fourth quarter revenue grew 49%
from a year ago to a record $4.8 billion. We expanded gross margin by more than five
percentage points and doubled operating income year-over-year.
Turning to our Computing and Graphics segment. Revenue increased 32% year-over-year to $2.6
billion, driven by growth in both Ryzen and Radeon processor sales. Record client computing
revenue grew by a double-digit percentage from a year-ago, led by record notebook sales. We
saw strong demand for premium AMD notebooks and our higher-end desktop CPUs in the
quarter, as Ryzen 5000 processor unit shipments grew by a double-digit percentage
sequentially. As a result, we believe we gained client processor revenue share for the seventh
straight quarter. We launched our Ryzen 6000 Series notebook CPUs at CES last month,
featuring our new Zen 3+ core that further extends the leadership compute, gaming and battery
life capabilities of our mobile processors.
We increased the number of premium gaming and commercial design wins from Acer, Asus, Dell,
HP, Lenovo and other major PC providers to more than 200, including more than 20 AMD
Advantage notebooks that combined Ryzen CPUs, Radeon GPUs and Radeon software to deliver
the ultimate gaming experience.
We also provided the first public demonstration of our upcoming Ryzen 7000 desktop
processors at CES. Ryzen 7000 Series desktop CPUs provide a significant performance increase
compared to our current Ryzen processors by combining our high-performance 5-nanometer Zen
4 core with our next-generation memory and I/O technologies in the new AM5 socket. There's a
lot of excitement in the market for our next-gen Ryzen desktop processors and we're on track to
launch in the second half of 2022.
In Graphics, revenue more than doubled year-over-year for the third straight quarter. Radeon
6000 Series GPU unit shipments and revenue both grew by double-digit percentages
sequentially, led by strong demand across our RDNA 2 desktop family.
At CES, we announced that we expanded our Radeon 6000 Series GPU portfolio with our first
mainstream RDNA 2 desktop GPU priced at $199. We also introduced new mobile GPUs that
deliver up to 20% more performance than our prior generation and our first mobile graphics
chips for thin-and-light gaming notebooks.Data center graphics revenue more than doubled year-over-year, driven largely by HPC wins for
our latest Instinct MI200 accelerators. We are seeing growing customer engagements for our
data center GPUs based on the leadership AI and HPC performance of our new MI200
accelerators, highlighted by multiple supercomputing wins and an expanded set of platforms on
track to launch from Atos, Dell, HP, Lenovo, Supermicro and others, starting later this quarter.
Turning to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment, revenue increased 75% year-
over-year to $2.2 billion, driven by record EPYC processor and semi-custom sales. Semi-custom
sales increase year-over-year, as the current game console cycle continues outpacing all prior
generations. We expect revenue to grow this year, driven by continued strong demand for the
latest Microsoft and Sony consoles.
Turning to Server. We had another outstanding quarter. Revenue more than doubled year-over-
year and increased by a double-digit percentage sequentially, driven by demand across both
cloud and enterprise customers. In cloud, revenue more than doubled year-over-year, as the
largest providers expanded internal deployments and more than 130 new AMD-powered
incidences launched from Amazon Web Services, Alibaba, Google, IBM, Microsoft Azure and
others.
Microsoft Azure previewed a new HPC instance, powered by our third-gen EPYC processors with
3D stacked memory that delivers up to 80% more performance than currently available
instances. Our differentiated 3D stacking technology further extends the leadership performance
of EPYC processors in technical computing workloads like EDA, fluid dynamics and complex
simulations. We started volume production of EPYC processors with 3D stacked memory earlier
this quarter in advance of OEM platform launches with all our major server partners.
In enterprise, revenues doubled year-over-year, driven by the ongoing ramp of more than 100
3rd Gen EPYC platforms available from Dell, HP Enterprise, Lenovo, Supermicro, Cisco and
others. In HPC, EPYC processor adoption was highlighted by the number of AMD-powered
supercomputers on the November TOP500 fastest supercomputers list, tripling year-over-year
to 73. EPYC processors also dominated the Green500 list and are now powering eight of the top
10 most efficient supercomputers in the world.
Turning to our overall data center business. We made outstanding progress in the last year. We
exited 2021 with data center revenue contributing a mid-20 percentage of overall revenue, and
we expect 2022 to be another year of significant growth based on the strong customer demand
signals for our current and next-generation products.
In November, we provided first details of our next-generation EPYC processor, codenamed
Genoa, that will feature up to 96 Zen 4 cores and next-generation memory and I/O technologies,
including breakthrough memory expansion capabilities. Customer excitement for Genoa is
extremely high as it extends our performance leadership across a broad range of workloads.
We also announced the addition of Bergamo to our server road map, featuring a version of our
Zen 4 core called Zen 4c that has been specifically optimized for cloud-native computing.
Bergamo is a high core-count power-efficient CPU that can be used in the same platforms as
Genoa. It will feature up to 128 CPU cores and deliver significant performance and power
efficiency advantages for cloud workloads. We are sampling Genoa processors to customers now
and are on track to launch later this year with Bergamo shipments planned to follow in the first
half of 2023.
Turning to our Xilinx acquisition. We were pleased to announce that China's State Administrationapproval required is FTC approval of our HSR refiling, and we expect to close the transaction in
the first quarter of 2022. I am more excited than ever about the benefits of the acquisition for
both AMD and Xilinx stakeholders. Customer excitement is also high as they look forward to the
opportunity to deepen their strategic engagements with AMD based on our expanded
technology and solutions portfolio.
In summary, I am incredibly proud of our performance in 2021. Our record annual results highlight
our strong execution over multiple years to establish the technical, operational and strategic
foundation to position AMD as a high-performance computing leader. Each of our businesses
performed extremely well in 2021 with growth significantly ahead of the long-term financial model
we outlined at our Financial Analyst Day in 2020. I want to take a moment to recognize and thank
the AMD employees whose passion, dedication and execution have enabled this success.
Turning to 2022. Demand for our products is very strong, and we look forward to another year of
significant growth and share gains as we ramp our current products and launch our next wave of
Zen 4 CPUs and RDNA 3 GPUs. We have also made significant investments to secure the capacity
needed to support our growth in 2022 and beyond. Looking out over the long-term, we are
confident in our ability to continue growing significantly faster than the market based on our
expanded road map investments and the deep relationships we have established with a broad
set of customers who view AMD as a strategic enabler of their success.
Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Devinder to provide some additional color on our fourth
quarter and full year financial performance. Devinder?
`Devinder Kumar, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer `
Thank you, Lisa, and good afternoon, everyone. We had a very strong 2021 with increased
demand for our products. Excellent execution resulted in record annual revenue, continued gross
margin expansion, record profitability and significant cash flow generation. Fourth quarter 2021
revenue of $4.8 billion was our sixth consecutive quarterly record, up 49% from a year ago driven
by strong revenue increases across all businesses. Gross margin was 50%, up 560 basis points
from a year ago, driven by a richer mix of products and data center revenue growth.
Operating expenses were $1.1 billion, compared to $789 million a year ago, as we increased
investments in our long-term product road maps to support the significant growth trajectory of
our business. Operating income doubled from a year ago to a record $1.3 billion, up $665 million
primarily driven by significant revenue growth and higher gross margin. Operating margin was
27%, up from 20% a year ago. Net income was a record $1.1 billion, up $486 million from a year
ago. Diluted earnings per share was $0.92 compared to $0.52 per share a year ago. This includes
a 15% effective tax rate compared to a 3% rate a year ago.
Now, turning to fourth quarter business segment results. Computing and Graphics segment
revenue was $2.6 billion, up 32% year-over-year, driven by higher graphics and client processor
revenue. Computing and Graphics segment operating income was $566 million or 22% of
revenue compared to $420 million a year ago. The increase in operating income was driven
primarily by higher revenue, partially offset by higher operating expenses.
Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment revenue was $2.2 billion, up 75% from $1.3
billion the prior year. The strong revenue increase was driven by significantly higher EPYC
processor and semi-custom sales. EESC segment operating income grew significantly to $762
million or 34% of revenue, compared to $243 million or 19% a year ago. Operating income
growth was driven primarily by higher revenue and richer product mix, partially offset by higherTurning to the balance sheet. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $3.6 billion
at year-end. As we continue returning capital to shareholders, we repurchased $756 million of
common stock in the fourth quarter and closed out the year with $1.8 billion of repurchases.
Additionally, we have repurchased $1 billion to-date in the first quarter of 2022 and have $1.2
billion remaining under the authorized $4 billion share repurchase plan. Quarterly free cash flow
was $736 million, compared to $480 million in the same quarter last year, and $764 million in the
prior quarter. Inventory was $2 billion, up $53 million from the prior quarter.
Now, let me turn to our full year financial results. 2021 revenue was $16.4 billion, up 68% year-on-
year, driven by strong growth across all businesses. Gross margin was 48%, up 370 basis points
from the prior year, driven by the strength and competitiveness of our EPYC, Radeon and Ryzen
processors. Operating expenses were 24% of revenue, compared to 28% in 2020. 2021
operating income was up 146% from a year ago to $4.1 billion, resulting in an operating margin of
25% compared to 17% in 2020. Net income was $3.4 billion, up 118% from the prior year. Full year
free cash flow was a record $3.2 billion, resulting in free cash flow margin of 20% for the year. In
addition, we invested approximately $1 billion during 2021 in long-term supply chain capacity to
support our expectations for future revenue and market share growth.
Let me now turn to our financial outlook. Today's outlook is based on current expectations and
contemplates the current global supply environment and customer signals and does not
contemplate the addition of Xilinx as that transaction has not yet closed. First quarter 2022
revenue is expected to be approximately $5 billion, plus or minus $100 million, an increase of
approximately 45% year-over-year and approximately 4% quarter-on-quarter. The year-over-year
increase is expected to be driven by growth across all businesses. The quarter-on-quarter
increase is expected to be driven by higher server and client revenue.
In addition, for Q1 2022, we expect non-GAAP gross margin to be approximately 50.5%; non-
GAAP operating expenses to be approximately $1.2 billion; non-GAAP interest expense, taxes
and other to be approximately $207 million based on a 15% effective tax rate; and the diluted
share count to be approximately 1.22 billion shares.
For the full year 2022, we expect revenue to be approximately $21.5 billion, an increase of
approximately 31%, driven by growth across all businesses. We expect non-GAAP gross margin to
be approximately 51%; non-GAAP operating expenses to be approximately 24% of revenue; non-
GAAP effective tax rate to be 15%; and non-GAAP cash tax rate to be approximately 9% due
primarily to the U.S. tax requirement to capitalize R&D and the full utilization of our U.S. net
operating losses and tax credits in 2022.
In closing, we had an outstanding quarter and an excellent year with very strong revenue growth
and numerous financial records. As we enter 2022, our leadership products and growing
customer momentum continue to position us very well for long-term growth. I look forward to
AMD delivering another year of very strong financial performance.
With that, I'll turn it back to Laura for the question-and-answer session. Laura?
`Laura Graves, Corporate Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Devinder, and thank you, Lisa. Operator, we're ready for our first question.
Questions And Answers
OperatorCertainly. We'll now be conducting a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) One
moment please while we poll for questions. Our first question today is coming from `Aaron Rakers, Wells Fargo Securities, LLC
from Wells Fargo. Your line is now live.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Wells Fargo Securities, LLC `
Yes. Thanks for taking the question and congratulations on the quarter. Just thinking about the
full-year guidance, I know that you had mentioned in your prepared remarks that you expect the
semi-custom segment to grow. I'm curious, if you could help us, maybe appreciate how you're
thinking about the semi-custom segment relative to the server segment? And whether or not
that 30% contribution from total data center still applies for 2023, the outlook that you had
provided at the last Analyst Day? Or you think that we're tracking above that trend? Thank you.
A - `Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure, Aaron. Thanks for the question. So for 2022, I mean our current view is that we'll see growth
in all of our businesses. We see strong demand for our products, as well as we have increased
supply capability given what we've done with our partners. So, relative to the growth from the
different businesses, the growth will be led by server. So, from -- what we see from customers,
and sort of design wins and platforms and all that, server will be very strong next year. But we
also expect growth from our other businesses including consoles, including our PC business, our
graphics business, and our embedded business. So, we expect the percentage of data center to
continue to increase as we go into next year, and we'll give more on that as we go through the
year.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Wells Fargo Securities, LLC `
Yes. Thank you.
A - `Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Aaron.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question today is coming from `Matt Ramsay, Cowen and Company from Cowen & Company. Your
line is now live.
Q - `Matt Ramsay, Cowen and Company `
Thank you very much. Good afternoon to the whole team. But Lisa, congrats on getting close on
Xilinx. Excited to see what that brings and obviously, the strong results. One of the questions I'm
getting tonight is, with such a strong start, greater than 30% guidance for revenue in 2022, can
you just kind of walk us through, maybe with a little more specificity, some of the things that
you've done in the supply chain around substrate, around back-end test and package, around
wafer demand and just to give people comfort that there's coverage there and visibility and the
potential for upside, particularly as you take server and desktop on the 5-nanometer, I imagine, 7-
nanometer capacity won't go away, it will stay as that new capacity comes online. So I just want to
make sure I understand all the variables around the confidence in supply. Thanks.
A - `Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, absolutely, Matt. Thanks for the question. So, we've been working on sort of the supply chain
really for the last four or five quarters, knowing the growth that we have from a productstandpoint and the visibility that we have from customers. So, in regards to your question on 2022
supply environment, we've made significant investments in wafer capacity, as well as substrate
capacity and back-end capacity. We feel very good about our progress in the supply chain, to
meet the 2022 guidance.
And our goal is, frankly, to have enough supply to satisfy the demand out there. So our view is
we're going to continue to work with our partners and our customers to ensure that we know
what they need. And likewise, our capacity investments are for 2022, but also beyond '22
because as the business grows, we need to continue to forecast and make plans for that and
that's what we've been working on.
Q - `Matt Ramsay, Cowen and Company `
Very good. Thanks for that. Just as a follow-up, I've been hearing more and more, and as you
guys roll out the 5-nanometer portfolio, many of those products in server and in desktop will
include next-generation Infinity Fabric. And it's been a conversation for a while about what you
guys have branded sort of A+ A, AMD CPU and GPU together. I wonder as you look out over the
next several quarters, how -- Lisa, how would you characterize that combination in importance to
your company strategy and the growth? Thanks.
A - `Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Well, we're very excited about our 5-nanometer products. I think Zen 4 is very critical. It's a
focus for this year for both our server road map as well as our client road map. And then the work
with the Infinity Fabric really -- really is just on top of that and allows us to continue to optimize
sort of the AMD CPU and GPU ecosystem together. So whether on the data center side, with our
data center GPU products, working with EPYC in high-performance computing or on the PC side,
when we have our AMD APUs plus our discrete graphics plus the software on top. So it is an
important -- very important element of our strategy. And it just goes to, continuing to differentiate
with the overall portfolio as we go into these new platforms.
A - `Laura Graves, Corporate Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Matt. Operator, next question, please?
Operator
Certainly. Our next question is coming from `Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank. Your line is now
live.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank `
Hi. Thanks for letting me ask a question. Congrats on the strong results and the strong guide.
Lisa, I just want to talk about the computing segment, the client computing side. At least, in my
model, that was a significant portion of the upside in the quarter after, I believe, last quarter, you
talked about not wanting to fill the channel and make sure you ship according to demand. So in
the near-term, what changed? And perhaps, more importantly, as you look into 2022, it appears
that you're planning for significant share gains to continue in that sector. Can you talk a little bit
about what gives the confidence for that share gain, please?
A - `Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure, Ross. So your question about the Computing and Graphics segment. Look, our focus in this
segment is to be very closely aligned with our customers and what they're doing in the market.So we've been monitoring sell-in and sell-out and sell-through trends very carefully. I think the
strength that we saw in the fourth quarter was very much a result of sort of the product strength.
And we saw very nice notebook demand continuing at the premium part of the market in
commercial, gaming, premium ultra-thins. So we believe that the PC performance was a bit
above our original guidance, but we believe that was to match end user demand.
Going into 2022, again, same story. I think the -- what we see is, 2021 was a strong year for PCs.
Overall, the industry shipped approximately 350 million units. I think our view is that 2022 will be
roughly flattish from a unit standpoint. But we will see a -- some mix changes in there with
enterprise and premium being stronger than, for example, low-end and education.
So from our standpoint, it's revenue share that we believe we can gain. It's the strength of our
Ryzen 6000 series that we just launched at CES. We have 200 platforms from all of the OEM
customers. And we have pretty good visibility in working with our customers on that. So -- and I
think we feel good about it. And again, the client business is one -- all of our businesses will grow.
And I like that diversity, frankly, in the portfolio, but we feel good about the progress we've made
in PCs, and we'll continue to ensure that we're matching sell-in with sell-out, so that there is not
inventory build in the business.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank `
Thanks for all that color. Maybe a quick follow-up on the pricing side of the equation. You talked
about getting enough supply to grow the impressive targets that you guys have for the year.
Conceptually and strategically, how do you think about pricing? Is that something you pass along?
Is it a tailwind to gross margin? And I don't know if you'd give any sort of precision, but out of the
30% plus that you're guiding to for the fiscal year, roughly, how do we think about pricing as a
tailwind within that?
A - `Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Well, I would say the way to think about pricing is, the industry has seen some price increases
across the supply chain. And that's as to be expected given the amount of capacity that we're all
putting on to satisfy the strong demand. So we're always in this for the long-term and working
with our supply chain partners as well as our customers, to ensure that we find a way to kind of
share the additional costs. But our focus is on ensuring that we have the supply to meet the high
demand. And I think what you're seeing is growth in the model from the standpoint that, we've
always kind of said, we're underrepresented in the business. When you look even today with all
of our growth, we're still underrepresented in the business, whether you're talking about the
server business or the PC business. And so we believe, that our product strength and our
customer engagements are such that, that we can grow significantly in this environment.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you.
A - `Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Ross.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question today is coming from `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Global Research from Bank of America. Your line is
now live.Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Global Research `
Thanks for taking my question. Lisa, I wanted to get your thoughts on the competitive landscape
in the server market this year versus last. Your competitor, Intel is launching their Sapphire Rapids
platform. They seem to be very excited about that. They're adding a lot of capacity in their fabs.
Enterprise spending, which has tended to favor them in the past, right, is also coming back. So I'm
just curious, how are you thinking about AMD's ability to gain more share in servers this year?
A - `Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, Vivek. So look, we always expect the competitive environment to be very strong and very
aggressive. And that's the way we plan our business. That being the case, I think we're very
happy with the growth that we've seen in the business sort of last year. And as we look forward,
we see opportunities in both cloud and enterprise.
On the cloud side, we're in 10 of the largest hyperscalers in the world are using AMD. As they get
familiar with us over multiple generations, they're expanding the workloads that they're using
AMD on. So we see that across internal and external workloads.
In the enterprise segment, we doubled year-over-year here in 2021. We continue to add more
field support, to have more people get familiar with our architecture. We have very strong OEM
relationships. So I feel very good about our server trajectory. And yes, it's very competitive out
there. But we think the data center business is a secular growth business, and within that, we can
grow significantly-faster than the market.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Global Research `
Got it. So my follow-up, Lisa, the semiconductor industry just went through a very tough time last
year and even into this year, given all the supply shortages. I'm curious, what has that done to
help you build stronger relationships with your customers who are perhaps looking for a more
consistent execution on the road map and more reliable sources of supply? So how is the
shortage environment in semis changed the way customers are looking at AMD today than how
they used to look at you historically?
A - `Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I think, Vivek, the most important thing that we are sort of working on with our customers is
really consistent execution. And so when you look at the last year and sort of some of the
supply/demand imbalance, it has actually caused us to work much, much more closely with our
customers.
I think we have -- we're talking about visibility now multiple quarters and in some cases, multiple
years out. For the type of capacity that we're talking about for the size of the customers that
we're talking to, we need to do that to plan to have the capability to support all of that capability.
So overall, I think we have definitely deepened the relationships with the customers. And by the
way, also, we've deepened the relationships with our supply chain partners. So I think the entire
sort of -- the entire food chain needs to come together to deliver on the very strong demand
that's out there. So that's certainly what we've been working on.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Global Research `
Thanks.A - `Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Vivek.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question today is coming from `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs. Your line is
now live.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs `
Great. Thank you. Congrats on the strong results, Lisa. I had two questions as well. One relatively
short-term and one on Xilinx. The short-term question. Just on Q1 revenue, you're obviously
guiding total company revenue up on a sequential basis. Your nearest competitor talked about
CPU inventory corrections in the quarter. Is that something that you're seeing in the market? And
if so, is that contemplated in your guidance?
A - `Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure, Toshiya. Thanks for the question. So yes, our guide in Q1 actually is up sequentially. Usually,
we're down sequentially, just given normal seasonality, but the demand patterns are such that
demand is strong and we have additional supply coming on board, and so that's why we're
guiding sequentially up. As it relates to CPU inventory, whether in PCs or in servers, we don't
believe there is any significant inventory of our products, whether at our customers or sort of in
the retailer channel. So from that standpoint, I think we've been watching very carefully the sell-in
and sell-through patterns, and we believe we're matched to end-user demand.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs `
Great. And as my quick follow-up on Xilinx. It's been a while since your initial announcement. I'm
sure you've had quite a bit of back and forth with your customers. You've had time to monitor
how they've been performing as a standalone company. How has your view on the company and
sort of the technology and the potential revenue synergies going forward evolved at all? I know
you're still waiting to close this thing. So maybe, you can't say too much, but just curious how your
view on things have evolved as it relates to Xilinx. Thank you.
A - `Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Absolutely. Look, I'm extremely excited about Xilinx. I mean, I would say that, we very much
have been planning for the integration over this period of time. We've had customers anxious to
talk to us about combined road maps. When we think about sort of the technology that they
have, it's very complementary to ours; very, very strong team. And their business results were just
posted last week, and their business is also doing very, very well. So I think the combination is
going to be very exciting. We look forward to telling you a lot more about it as we get to close
and beyond.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question today is coming from `John Pitzer, Credit Suisse from Credit Suisse. Your line is
now live.
Q - `John Pitzer, Credit Suisse `Yes. Good afternoon, guys. Lisa, thanks for letting me ask the question. Lisa, a couple of
questions. First, I'm wondering if you could just help me better understand the fungibility of your
capacity planning throughout the year, i.e., I understand that your view on the PC market this year
is sort of flattish with a better mix and you gaining share. But in the event that come mid-year that
were to change and perhaps be a little bit worse than thought, do you have the ability to rejigger
your sort of supply chain to move towards server and CPU? How does that kind of math work?
A - `Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. John, so we've certainly worked very hard to give ourselves fungibility amongst the various
capacity corridors that we have. So we've done numerous cross-qualifications and new factory
bring-ups and all of that stuff. So I would say it's not 100% fungible, but there -- it is -- there is an
ability to move across the different businesses. And we make that a dynamic allocation decision
sort of like weekly, based on what we see going on. So I think we have a pretty good pulse on the
market and we sort of understand sort of what's going on. And our customers are giving us
signals on a regular basis. And so I think we'll be able to manage through at all of the puts and
takes as we go through the year.
Q - `John Pitzer, Credit Suisse `
That's helpful. And then my second question, just on data center and GPU. Where does that
factor into kind of your growth expectations for this year? And now that you've created sort of a
strong beachhead of EPYC inside the data center, does that help the sales cycle at all to get
more GPU penetration?
A - `Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Sure. So data center GPU had a very strong year in 2021. It was sort of a key year for us as
we launched the MI200 family, and we had several large supercomputing wins. This year, for data
center GPU, it's about the cloud and about sort of expanding beyond sort of the large HPC wins. I
view it as a strategic growth vector for us over the next several years.
I think your question is a good one about sort of the pull, now that EPYC is very sort of well-
established in these accounts. So I do think that helps us with data center GPU. But the way to
think about it is, this is a long-term investment for us. The hardware is very, very good. We've
been investing more in the software. We've been working with our customers to ensure that our
tool chain gets them the performance that they need. And so I would say this is a longer-term
driver. But I'm pleased with the progress that we made certainly through this last year.
Q - `John Pitzer, Credit Suisse `
Thanks a lot.
A - `Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is coming from `Blayne Curtis, Barclays Capital from Barclays. Your line is now live.
Q - `Blayne Curtis, Barclays Capital `Hey. Thanks for taking my question. I was curious on the EPYC side and the preamble you --
clearly strong trends in cloud and enterprise and HPC. Just curious on the comp channel. You had
a press release recently with Nokia. I know it's kind of early days, but any kind of comments you
had in terms of your design progress there? It's kind of the last area that you haven't really
penetrated in servers.
A - `Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Sure, Blayne. It's still very early. But yes, we're very happy with the partnership with Nokia that
was announced. We -- as you said, this is an area where we're early in the cycle. It's an area
where we're building relationships. And so I feel good about the progress there, but I would say
it's still quite early.
And then you didn't ask this, but just one of the other things with the communications and 5G. As
we bring Xilinx into the equation, they also have very deep relationships with a number of these
accounts. And so we see that as an incremental positive as we think about EPYC in
communications.
Q - `Blayne Curtis, Barclays Capital `
Thank you. And then maybe, for my follow-up, just on the March guidance. Semi-custom typically
has a pretty seasonal decline. It's been anything but typical, and you had very strong trends it
seems like in the end of the year. So I'm just kind of curious within that March guidance, that I think
you can provide in terms of -- I'm assuming it's probably down, but I am just kind of curious versus
normal levels, if you could just tell us anything, that would be helpful.
A - `Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. So for the Q1 guide, the sequential up is being driven by -- primarily by server and then also
by client. For semi-custom, it is normally significantly down and this year, it is flattish into the first
quarter. And it's -- as you said, the seasonal patterns aren't there; demand continues to be
strong and we continue to support our customers with additional product there.
Q - `Blayne Curtis, Barclays Capital `
Thanks, Lisa.
A - `Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is coming from `Stacy Rasgon, Bernstein Research from Bernstein Research. Your line is
now live.
Q - `Stacy Rasgon, Bernstein Research `
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. First, I want to revisit the pricing question. I don't think
you quite answered it. I get the inflationary environment; I get your costs are going up. It's fair to
pass those along. But of the 31% growth in 2022, how much of a tailwind is pricing? I mean, is it
none? Is it some? Like how much? What's the number?
A - `Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer `Stacy, I don't think I'm going to answer that exactly. But what I will say is what I said before. Look,
we are sharing. As we go through this environment, the key is to have long-term relationships,
both on the supply chain side and on the customer side. But without a doubt, the predominant
growth is products. So it's units and ASPs from the mix of the product, and it's -- that's the
predominant growth.
Q - `Stacy Rasgon, Bernstein Research `
Okay. Okay. So my follow-up, look, I feel really bad about nit-picking on a 51% gross margin, but I
am going to, so I apologize in advance. But I'll be honest, just given the mix seemingly should be
getting quite a bit better year-over-year in '22 versus '21, and you're almost sitting at 51%, I mean,
even going into Q1, anyway. Like why doesn't that margin go higher? Can you give us some
feeling of the drivers, I guess, from where you're sitting right now in Q4 to Q1 guide through the
year? Like why shouldn't we expect more upside to that gross margin given where the mix is
going?
A - `Devinder Kumar, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer `
Yes. Stacy, I can take that. As you heard Lisa talk about semi-custom in Q4 to Q1, you would
expect an increase, but it is flattish. And really, it's product mix-dependent, right? I think, looking
at any particular quarter is sometimes not the way to do it. It's kind of looking at the long-term.
We did 48-plus percent in 2020, and we're going to 51% as a guide in 2022. And if you look at it
from that standpoint, the margin of the company continues to go up in a very steady way as data
center grows, as we get to a better mix of product within the Client and Graphics business, and
that's, I think, the better way to look at it, Stacy.
Q - `Stacy Rasgon, Bernstein Research `
Okay. Got it. Thank you, guys.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is coming from `Mark Lipacis, Jefferies and Company from Jefferies. Your line is now live.
Q - `Mark Lipacis, Jefferies and Company `
Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. I had one for Lisa and one for Devinder, if I may. Lisa, it seems
like one of the potential threats to the merchant processor players like yourself is that your own
customers are designing their own processors. And I'm wondering, does AMD have a role
working with your customers to provide customized solutions, be it tweaking x86 or co-designing
something more specific together hand-in-hand? I don't know if Xilinx would play a role in that.
Could you just talk about what you're doing on -- with your customers on that effort?
A - `Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Sure, Mark. So actually, it's a very exciting area. It's -- just consider it an evolution of -- we've
always had a semi-custom model, like the work that we do with the console guys to design
specifically for their application. As we look at the broader set of applications, including some of
these data center applications, we do believe that there's a sort of the next leg of the stool in
terms of deep customer relationships. So we already do a lot of customization around product
SKUs and specific optimization points, but we can certainly imagine both customer IP or different
incarnations of our IP, to really optimize. Because as these applications end up really requiring so
much volume, it really does justify additional customization for those cases.Q - `Mark Lipacis, Jefferies and Company `
Got you. Thank you. And then a follow-up for Devinder, if I may. Devinder, 5, 10 years ago, I don't
think a lot of people would have expected to hear you talk about buying back billions dollars'
worth of stock. So congratulations on that progress. The question on this topic is, where are --
where is AMD in terms of evolving this recent capital return push into a policy? Are you at a point
where you're just looking opportunistically to buying back stock? Or some companies say, we're
going to return X percent of our cash flow to shareholders. Where is AMD in this -- in the
evolution of capital return? Thank you.
A - `Devinder Kumar, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer `
I think, we just started in 2021, $1.8 billion. We raised another $1 billion early in 2022. And certainly,
that -- those purchases are part of our long-term $4 billion share repurchase program.
To your question about policy, I don't think we're quite there yet. We've just started. We'll
evaluate it, as we close the Xilinx transaction. And also in our outlook of the business, confidence
in the business, and then evaluate what we do from an overall standpoint as we look out to the
future, the next few years here.
Q - `Mark Lipacis, Jefferies and Company `
Fair enough. Thank you.
A - `Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Mark.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is coming from Joe Moore from Morgan Stanley. Your line is now
live.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thank you. You've obviously done a great job of bringing on supply. But it seems like AMD
product is still relatively-tight kind of everywhere. Do you see the constraints being more severe
in any of the end markets versus any of the others?
A - `Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure, Joe. Well, I think overall, we have been in a mode of, demand is larger than supply. Although
we made a lot of progress through 2021. And I expect to make more progress, really, incremental
capacity will come online through 2022, especially in the second half. So I think it's really about
sort of our prioritization decisions and trying to ensure that we spend -- that we're satisfying our
customers' needs. But we're definitely working on getting more supply as we go through the
year. And I think you should see it loosen up a bit.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thank you. And then for my follow-up, you mentioned, I think, within server, that both
enterprise and cloud were up over 100%, which seems pretty good. Can you talk about the mix
of enterprise versus cloud within that business? Give us some qualitative sense of how big
enterprise it has become.A - `Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So enterprise has grown nicely. I mean, we're still cloud-weighted. So if you look --
sometimes these patterns, it's better to look on a full year basis. So we are still cloud-weighted
relative to enterprise. But enterprise has made a really nice progress. It's a sizable business. And
the -- we've made progress with the larger OEMs as well as across a number of regional OEMs.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thank you very much.
A - `Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks.
A - `Laura Graves, Corporate Vice President, Investor Relations `
Operator, we have time for two more, please.
Operator
Certainly. Our next question is coming from `Chris Caso, Raymond James from Raymond James. Your line is now
live.
Q - `Chris Caso, Raymond James `
Yes. Thank you. Good evening. First question is, if you could give some indication of the strategy
behind some of the processor variants that have come out, most recently Milan-X and Bergamo
coming up. Do those variants represent incremental revenue to AMD? What's the strategy
behind it? How does that help you -- help the product line?
A - `Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure, Chris. Well, I think the strategy is, as we have gotten more scale in the business, we can
invest more and we see ways to further differentiate our product portfolio. So -- I mean, I think
Milan-X is really sort of the highest of the highest end. And we see that for technical computing
and some of these EDA workloads that, that does give us a very differentiated product. And then
we have the regular Milan product line. We'll have Genoa. And Bergamo is really optimized for
cloud. So I do believe it gives us more opportunity to expand from a market share and a footprint
standpoint.
And I think the broader statement, Chris, is that the data center is so large. There are so many
different workloads that you can optimize. Like by doing these variants, we will actually get a
better solution for the customer, give them better total cost of ownership, and hopefully, give us
a larger footprint in that workload as well.
Q - `Chris Caso, Raymond James `
Thank you. As a follow-up -- the follow-up question is about supply and just following up on some
of your earlier comments. But can you tell us how you're approaching that now with getting the
additional supply? Is it a factor of your customers coming to you with the requirements and then
you going back to the foundry? And obviously, you need to make commitments to the foundries
right now. Are those backed up by customer commitments? And in the event that business turnsout to be better as it was last year, are you able to procure that additional supply in time for when
the business needs it?
A - `Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. We've set out a road map for, frankly, not just 2022 but beyond, which allows, let's call it,
very aggressive growth goals. We work that on a regular basis with our customers and our supply
chain partners. I would say, we have better visibility than we have ever had from a customer
demand standpoint. And so that gives us pretty good confidence in terms of what is needed. But
there are always going to be some puts and takes, and so we have enough flexibility to do that.
But our goal is to dimension for success, right? At the end of the day, that's what we want to do
is, we want to satisfy customer demand, and so we're dimensioning for success, and work with
our customers as their demand evolves.
Q - `Chris Caso, Raymond James `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our final question today is coming from `Harlan Sur, JPMorgan Chase and Company from JPMorgan. Your line is now
live.
Q - `Harlan Sur, JPMorgan Chase and Company `
Hi. Good afternoon. Just wanted to ask about your Embedded business. It's not often talked
about, but it's a great market, right, diversified across various end markets. You can also leverage
your leading edge and mature portfolio. You've got a pretty good line-up of EPYC-based and
Ryzen-based processors targeting embedded. You've also gotten some pretty good design win
traction in automotive with guys like Tesla. You've got wins in retail with digital signage; wins in
networking, IoT edge platforms. And then with Xilinx, you can sort of really leverage their
exposure in industrial automotive common consumer end markets. It's a small part of the
business today. But how do you see the embedded opportunity for AMD looking out over the
next several years?
A - `Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks for the question, Harlan. Look, I like the embedded business. I've always liked the
embedded business. It's a nice, sticky business over many years. It is smaller, but it has grown
nicely. And the volume design wins in automotive and they've now sort of expanded their usage.
They've recently expanded their usage over a broader part of their product portfolio. We've
focused on networking and storage as key markets. I do think there is a very good synergy with
Xilinx in terms of just the customer set and the channels.
And so I do see it as a nice grower for us as we go through it. And there's very good reuse from
our server products as well as our client products. So we'll talk -- again, we'll talk a little bit more
about it as the business gets to more size. And that will be part of our Financial Analyst Day
conversation, when we get to that in June.
Q - `Harlan Sur, JPMorgan Chase and Company `
Perfect. Thanks, Lisa.
A - `Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer `Thank you, Harlan.
Operator
Thank you. We've reached the end of our question-and-answer session. I'd like to turn the floor
back over for any further or closing comments.
A - `Lisa Su, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Everyone, thank you very much for joining us for our fourth quarter and full year 2021 earnings call.
We appreciate your support of our company and look forward to seeing you again soon. As a
reminder, we will have our Financial Analyst Day this year on June 9. Thank you, everyone. Have a
great day.
Operator
Thank you. That does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your line at this time
and have a wonderful day. We thank you for your participation today.