Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Our full year 2020 Net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities was up $6.6 billion year over year, more than explained by higher Ford Credit operating cash flows.  Company adjusted free cash flow was down $2.1 billion year-over-year, more than explained by lower adjusted EBIT driven by the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Capital spending was $5.7 billion in 2020, $1.9 billion lower than a year ago.  The year-over-year reduction reflects unavoidable delays due to the global pandemic, austerity measures implemented in response to the business environment, and continued efficiencies.  Capital spending to support product development, growth, and infrastructure is expected to be in the range of $6.0 billion to $6.5 billion in 2021. Full year 2020 working capital was $2.0 billion positive, explained by higher trade payables and lower receivables and inventory than in 2019. Full year 2020 all other and timing differences were negative $3.5 billion, reflecting assorted timing differences between accrual-based EBIT and the associated cash flows (e.g., marketing incentive and warranty payments to dealers), interest payments on Automotive and Other debt, and cash taxes. Shareholder distributions were $595 million in 2020, all of which were attributable to our regular quarterly dividend in the first quarter. We previously announced our plan for the global redesign of our business, pursuant to which we are working to turn around automotive operations, compete like a challenger, and capitalize on our strengths by allocating more capital, more resources, and more talent to our strongest business and vehicle franchises.  Beginning with the actions we took in 2018, we expect our global redesign to have a potential cash effect of about $7 billion.  The cash effect related to our global redesign activities was $1.6 billion through December 31, 2020 and is expected to be about $5 billion through December 31, 2021. As discussed in the “ Key Trends and Economic Factors Affecting Ford and the Automotive Industry” section above, Ford Brazil’s decision to exit manufacturing operations is expected to result in charges of about $2.5 billion that will be paid in cash primarily in 2021.  In addition, Ford offers a purchase program in South America pursuant to which members of the program make payments over 84 months to purchase certain Ford vehicles.  Each month, two vehicles are allocated to members of each group.  For groups that planned to purchase Ford vehicles that will no longer be available due to Ford Brazil exiting manufacturing (e.g., Ford Ka), Ford will reimburse, or offer an alternative product, to the members who have paid into the program and have not received a vehicle.  The cash impact in 2021 is expected to be between $0.2 billion and $0.3 billion. Available Credit Lines .  Total Company committed credit lines, excluding Ford Credit, at December 31, 2020 were $18.6 billion, consisting of $13.5 billion of our corporate credit facility, $2 billion of our supplemental revolving credit facility, $1.5 billion of our delayed draw term loan facility, and $1.6 billion of local credit facilities.  In the first quarter of 2020, we submitted borrowing notices to our lenders for the full amounts of both our corporate credit facility and our supplemental revolving credit facility, and by the third quarter of 2020, we repaid the full amounts outstanding under each facility.  At December 31, 2020, the utilized portion of the corporate credit facility was $27 million, representing amounts utilized for letters of credit, and no portion of the supplemental revolving credit facility was utilized.  The $1.5 billion delayed draw term loan facility was drawn in full in 2019 and remains outstanding.  In addition, $0.7 billion of committed Company credit lines, excluding Ford Credit, was available under local credit facilities for our affiliates as of December 31, 2020. Lenders under our corporate credit facility have $0.4 billion of commitments maturing on April 30, 2022, $3 billion of commitments maturing on July 27, 2023, and $10.1 billion of commitments maturing on April 30, 2024.  Lenders under our supplemental revolving credit facility have $0.2 billion of commitments maturing on April 30, 2022 and $1.8 billion of commitments maturing on July 27, 2023. The corporate credit facility is unsecured and free of material adverse change conditions to borrowing, restrictive financial covenants (for example, interest or fixed-charge coverage ratio, debt-to-equity ratio, and minimum net worth requirements), and credit rating triggers that could limit our ability to obtain funding or trigger early repayment.  The corporate credit facility contains a liquidity covenant that requires us to maintain a minimum of $4 billion in aggregate of domestic cash, cash equivalents, and loaned and marketable securities and/or availability under the facility.  Further, the terms of the corporate and supplemental revolving credit facilities prohibit share repurchases (with limited exceptions) while any portion of either facility is outstanding and the payment of dividends on our common or Class B stock while more than 50% of the aggregate amount of commitments under the two facilities is utilized.  The terms and conditions of the delayed draw term loan (other than the restrictions on share repurchases and dividends) and the supplemental revolving credit facility are consistent with our corporate credit facility. 58