Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Assumptions and Approach Used. We are subject to the income tax laws and regulations of the many jurisdictions in which we operate.  These tax laws and regulations are complex and involve uncertainties in the application to our facts and circumstances that may be open to interpretation.  We recognize benefits for these uncertain tax positions based upon a process that requires judgment regarding the technical application of the laws, regulations, and various related judicial opinions.  If, in our judgment, it is more likely than not that the uncertain tax position will be settled favorably to us, we estimate an amount that ultimately will be realized.  This process is inherently subjective, since it requires our assessment of the probability of future outcomes.  We evaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis, including consideration of changes in facts and circumstances, such as new regulations or recent judicial opinions, as well as the status of audit activities by taxing authorities.  Changes to our estimate of the amount to be realized are recorded in our provision for income taxes during the period in which the change occurred. We must also assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets against future sources of taxable income and reduce the carrying amount of deferred tax assets by recording a valuation allowance if, based on all available evidence, it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of more than 50%) that all or a portion of such assets will not be realized. This assessment, which is completed on a taxing jurisdiction basis, takes into account a number of types of evidence, including the following: • Nature, frequency, and severity of current and cumulative financial reporting losses. A pattern of objectively measured recent financial reporting losses is heavily weighted as a source of negative evidence.  We generally consider cumulative pre-tax losses in the three-year period ending with the current quarter to be significant negative evidence regarding future profitability.  We also consider the strength and trend of earnings, as well as other relevant factors.  In certain circumstances, historical information may not be as relevant due to changes in our business operations; • Sources of future taxable income. Future reversals of existing temporary differences are heavily-weighted sources of objectively verifiable positive evidence.  Projections of future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences are a source of positive evidence only when the projections are combined with a history of recent profits and can be reasonably estimated.  Otherwise, these projections are considered inherently subjective and generally will not be sufficient to overcome negative evidence that includes relevant cumulative losses in recent years, particularly if the projected future taxable income is dependent on an anticipated turnaround to profitability that has not yet been achieved.  In such cases, we generally give these projections of future taxable income no weight for the purposes of our valuation allowance assessment; and • Tax planning strategies. If necessary and available, tax planning strategies would be implemented to accelerate taxable amounts to utilize expiring carryforwards.  These strategies would be a source of additional positive evidence and, depending on their nature, could be heavily weighted. We presently believe that a valuation allowance of $843 million is required, primarily related to deferred tax assets in various non-U.S. operations.  We believe that we ultimately will recover the remaining $11.3 billion of deferred tax assets.  We have assessed recoverability of these assets and concluded that no valuation allowance is required for these assets. For additional information regarding income taxes, see Note 7 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Nature of Estimates Required - Held-and-Used Long-Lived Assets. We test our long-lived asset groups when changes in circumstances indicate their carrying value may not be recoverable.  Events that trigger a test for recoverability include material adverse changes in projected revenues and expenses, present cash flow losses combined with a history of present cash flow losses and a forecast that demonstrates significant continuing losses, significant negative industry or economic trends, a current expectation that a long-lived asset group will be disposed of significantly before the end of its useful life, a significant adverse change in the manner in which an asset group is used or in its physical condition, or when there is a change in the asset grouping.  When a triggering event occurs, a test for recoverability is performed, comparing projected undiscounted future cash flows to the carrying value of the asset group.  If the test for recoverability identifies a possible impairment, the asset group’s fair value is measured relying primarily on a discounted cash flow method.  To the extent available, we will also consider third-party valuations of our long-lived assets that were prepared for other business purposes.  An impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying value of the asset group exceeds its estimated fair value.  When an impairment loss is recognized for assets to be held and used, the adjusted carrying amount of those assets is depreciated over their remaining useful life. 72