Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) As a result, we analyze the profit impact of certain cost changes holding constant present-year volume and mix and currency exchange, in order to evaluate our cost trends absent the impact of varying production and currency exchange levels.  We analyze these cost changes in the following categories: • Contribution Costs – these costs typically vary with production volume.  These costs include material, commodity, warranty, and freight and duty costs. • Structural Costs – these costs typically do not have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume.  These costs include manufacturing, engineering, spending-related, advertising and sales promotion, administrative and selling, and pension and OPEB costs. While contribution costs generally vary directly in proportion to production volume, elements within our structural costs category are impacted to differing degrees by changes in production volume.  We also have varying degrees of discretion when it comes to controlling the different elements within our structural costs.  For example, depreciation and amortization expense largely is associated with prior capital spending decisions.  On the other hand, while labor costs do not vary directly with production volume, manufacturing labor costs may be impacted by changes in volume, for example when we increase overtime, add a production shift or add personnel to support volume increases.  Other structural costs, such as advertising or engineering costs, do not necessarily have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume.  Our structural costs generally are within our discretion, although to varying degrees, and can be adjusted over time in response to external factors. We consider certain structural costs to be a direct investment in future growth and revenue.  For example, increases in structural costs are necessary to grow our business and improve profitability as we expand around the world, invest in new products and technologies, respond to increasing industry sales volume, and grow our market share. Automotive total costs and expenses for full-year 2015 was $134.5 billion.  Material and commodity costs make up the largest portion of our Automotive total costs and expenses, representing in 2015 about two-thirds of the total amount.  Of the remaining balance of our Automotive costs and expenses, the largest piece is structural costs.  Although material costs are our largest absolute cost, our margins can be affected significantly by changes in any category of costs. Key Economic Factors and Trends Affecting the Automotive Industry Currency Exchange Rate Volatility. The U.S. Federal Reserve raised its policy interest rate in December 2015, for the first time since 2006, and the resulting shifts in capital flows have contributed to downward pressure on several emerging market currencies.  In some cases that pressure is aggravated by low commodity prices, high inflation, or unstable policy environments.   Additionally, the yen and euro have depreciated as a result of monetary policy easing by the Bank of Japan and European Central Bank.  The weak yen, in particular,  adds significant potential downward pressure on vehicle pricing across many markets globally.  In most markets, exchange rates are market-determined, and all are impacted by many different macroeconomic and policy factors, and thus likely to remain volatile.  However, in some markets, exchange rates are heavily influenced or controlled by governments. Excess Capacity. According to IHS Automotive, an automotive research firm, the estimated automotive industry global production capacity for light vehicles of about 119 million units exceeded global production by about 31 million units in 2015.  In North America and Europe, two regions where a significant share of industry revenue is earned, excess capacity as a percent of production was an estimated 7% and 22%, respectively, in 2015.  In China, the auto industry also witnessed excess capacity at 54% of production in 2015, as manufacturers competed to capitalize on China’s future market potential.  According to production capacity data projected by IHS Automotive, global excess capacity conditions could continue for several years at an average of about 33 million units per year during the period from 2016 to 2020. Pricing Pressure. Excess capacity, coupled with a proliferation of new products being introduced in key segments, will keep pressure on manufacturers’ ability to increase prices.  In North America, the industry restructuring of the past few years has allowed manufacturers to better match production with demand, although Japanese and Korean manufacturers also have capacity located outside of the region directed to North America.  In the future, Chinese and Indian manufacturers are expected to enter U.S. and European markets, further intensifying competition.  Over the long term, intense competition and excess capacity will continue to put downward pressure on inflation-adjusted prices for similarly-contented vehicles in the United States and contribute to a challenging pricing environment for the automotive industry.  In Europe, the excess capacity situation was exacerbated by weakening demand and the lack of reductions in existing capacity, such that negative pricing pressure is expected to continue for the foreseeable future. 28