Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) The full year 2021 working capital impact was $1.7 billion negative, driven by higher inventory.  All other and timing differences were negative $3.1 billion, reflecting assorted differences including differences between accrual-based EBIT and the associated cash flows (e.g., marketing incentive and warranty payments to dealers; pension and OPEB income or expense).  We expect the working capital and timing differences to normalize when supply is restored, dealer stocks rebound, and incentives potentially increase. Shareholder distributions were $400 million in 2021, all of which were attributable to the reinstatement of our regular quarterly dividend in the fourth quarter. We previously announced our plan for the global redesign of our business, pursuant to which we are working to turn around automotive operations, compete like a challenger, and capitalize on our strengths by allocating more capital, more resources, and more talent to our strongest business and vehicle franchises.  Beginning with the actions we took in 2018, we expect our global redesign to have a potential cash effect of about $7 billion.  The cash effect related to our global redesign activities was $3.5 billion through December 31, 2021.  For additional information on Global Redesign, see the Outlook section on page 73 . Available Credit Lines .  Total Company committed credit lines, excluding Ford Credit, at December 31, 2021 were $18.3 billion, consisting of $13.5 billion of our corporate credit facility, $2.0 billion of our supplemental revolving credit facility, $1.5 billion of our delayed draw term loan facility, and $1.3 billion of local credit facilities.  At December 31, 2021, the utilized portion of the corporate credit facility was $25 million, representing amounts utilized for letters of credit, and no portion of the supplemental revolving credit facility was utilized.  The $1.5 billion delayed draw term loan facility was drawn in full in 2019 and remains outstanding.  In addition, $847 million of committed Company credit lines, excluding Ford Credit, was utilized under local credit facilities for our affiliates as of December 31, 2021. Lenders under our corporate credit facility have $3.4 billion of commitments maturing on September 29, 2024 and $10.1 billion of commitments maturing on September 29, 2026.  Lenders under our supplemental revolving credit facility have $2.0 billion of commitments maturing on September 29, 2024. In September 2021, we amended the corporate and supplemental credit agreements to remove the restrictions on our ability to repurchase shares or pay dividends.  In addition, the agreements include certain sustainability-linked targets, pursuant to which the applicable margin and facility fees may be adjusted if Ford achieves, or fails to achieve, the specified targets related to global manufacturing facility greenhouse gas emissions, renewable electricity consumption, and Ford Europe CO 2 tailpipe emissions.  Further, interest on any U.S. dollar borrowings under both the corporate and supplemental revolving credit facilities will be calculated using daily simple SOFR.  Prior to the amendments, such interest was calculated using LIBOR. The corporate credit facility is unsecured and free of material adverse change conditions to borrowing, restrictive financial covenants (for example, interest or fixed-charge coverage ratio, debt-to-equity ratio, and minimum net worth requirements), and credit rating triggers that could limit our ability to obtain funding or trigger early repayment.  The corporate credit facility contains a liquidity covenant that requires us to maintain a minimum of $4 billion in aggregate of domestic cash, cash equivalents, and loaned and marketable securities and/or availability under the facility.  The terms and conditions of the delayed draw term loan (other than the sustainability-linked provisions and the transition from LIBOR to SOFR) and the supplemental revolving credit facility are consistent with our corporate credit facility. Each of the corporate credit facility, supplemental revolving credit facility, delayed draw term loan, and our Loan Arrangement and Reimbursement Agreement with the U.S. Department of Energy (the “DOE”) include a covenant that requires us to provide guarantees from certain of our subsidiaries in the event that our senior, unsecured, long-term debt does not maintain at least two investment grade ratings from Fitch, Moody’s, and S&P.  The following subsidiaries have provided unsecured guarantees to the lenders under the credit facilities and to the DOE:  Ford Component Sales, LLC; Ford European Holdings LLC; Ford Global Technologies, LLC; Ford Holdings LLC (the parent company of Ford Credit); Ford International Capital LLC; Ford Mexico Holdings LLC; Ford Motor Service Company; Ford Next LLC (formerly known as Ford Autonomous Vehicles LLC); Ford Smart Mobility LLC; and Ford Trading Company, LLC. Debt. As shown in Note 19 of the Notes to the Financial Statements, at December 31, 2021, Company debt excluding Ford Credit was $20.4 billion.  This balance is $3.6 billion lower than at December 31, 2020, primarily reflecting our repurchase and redemption of $7.6 billion of higher-coupon debt in the fourth quarter of 2021, partially offset by our convertible notes issuance in March 2021 and our green bond issuance in November 2021. 64