Q4 2016 Earnings Call

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the ASML 2016 Fourth Quarter and
Annual Financial Results Conference Call on January 18, 2017. Throughout today's introduction, all
participants will be in a listen-only mode. After ASML's introduction, there will be an opportunity to
ask questions.
I would now like to open the question-and-answer queue.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Mr. `Craig DeYoung, Vice President, Investor Relations Worldwide. Please go ahead, sir.
`Craig DeYoung, Vice President, Investor Relations Worldwide `
Thank you, Aaron, and good afternoon, and good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This is Craig
DeYoung, Vice President of Investor Relations at ASML. Joining me today from ASML's
headquarters in Veldhoven, the Netherlands, is ASML's CEO Peter Wennink; and our CFO,
Wolfgang Nickl.
The subject of today's call is ASML's 2016 fourth quarter and annual results. As always, the length
of the call will be 60 minutes, and questions will be taken in the order that they're received. This
call is also being broadcast live over the Internet at asml.com, and a replay of the call will be
available on our website.
Before we begin, I'd like to caution listeners that comments made by management during this
conference call will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal
securities laws. These forward-looking statements involve material risks and uncertainties. For a
discussion of risk factors, I encourage you to review the Safe Harbor statement contained intoday's press release and presentation found on our website at asml.com and in ASML's Annual
Report on Form 20-F and other documents as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.
With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Peter Wennink for a brief introduction.
`Peter T. F. M. Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Craig, for this (02:01) conference call.
Before we begin the – a Q&A session, Wolfgang and I would like to provide you with an overview
and some commentary on 2016, the fourth quarter and beyond. Wolfgang will start with a review
of our annual 2016 fourth quarter financial performance with some added comments on our
short-term outlook, and I will complete the introduction with some additional comments on key
2016 accomplishments and some of our near-term expectations.
`Wolfgang U. Nickl, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Thank you, Peter, and welcome, everyone. 2016 was a remarkable year for ASML, both financially
and strategically. I would like to first highlight some of our financial accomplishments and then
finish with our view of the coming quarter.
2016 was a record-breaking year in many financial respects, with total net sales, gross profit, net
income and earnings per share all reaching record levels. In addition, we finished the year with
the highest backlog ever which, combined with our current business view, allows us to look
forward to another great year in 2017 where EUV becomes an integral and growing part of
system revenues, contributing significantly to our top line growth through the balance of this
decade and beyond.
Turning to our Q4 results. Net sales came in at €1.91 billion. Net system sales accounted for €1.22
billion, driven by logic which represented 61% of net system sales, with memory returning to
strength versus Q3, accounting for 39% of net system sales. System sales included €144 million
of EUV revenue in line with the guidance given during our earnings call in October.
Net service and field option sales for the quarter came in strong as expected at a level of €684
million, driven by ongoing strong demand for Holistic Lithography options, high-value upgrades
and our growing installed base. Furthermore, we closed the acquisition of HMI in November, and
net service and field option sales include about €25 million for this new and exciting part of our
business.
Our gross margin for the quarter came in at 47.2%. This includes starting the amortization of
intangibles, as well as the effects from the fair value assessment of HMI's inventory as of the
closing date of the acquisition. The negative impact on gross margin for both of these purchase
price allocation-related items was approximately 1 percentage point.
R&D expenses came in at €287 million, slightly higher than guided, due to both the R&D
expenses of HMI and the start of our partial funding of Zeiss SMT for our High-NA EUV program.
SG&A expenses came at €107 million, also slightly higher than guided due to the inclusion of HMI.
We also had an impact from foreign currency revaluations on transactions and balances relating
to the HMI acquisition. You may remember that this was an unfavorable effect of about €28
million in Q3, as reported during the last call. For Q4, we had a more-than-offsetting favorable
effect of about €83 million. These effects are reported in the interest and other line in our P&L.Moving to the order book. Q4 system bookings came in at €1.6 billion for 44 systems, including six
3400 EUV systems. Strong bookings continued in the logic sector in support of the 10 nanometer
ramps and in support of EUV insertion at the 7 nanometer node. Memory bookings strengthened
further from its strong Q3 level, supporting expected strengths in memory shipments continuing
in 2017, driven by DRAM. The continuing order flow for EUV systems brings our total year-end EUV
system order book to 18 systems. Our overall systems backlog now stands at nearly €4 billion.
Turning to the balance sheet. Quarter-over-quarter cash, cash equivalents and short-term
investments came in at €4.06 billion. A major driver was our free cash flow of €1.1 billion in Q4. As
we experienced in the last quarter of 2015, we saw a significant level of early payments from
customers, which will impact Q1 2017 cash flows.
Also, as already mentioned before, we closed the HMI acquisition during the quarter and also
issued a €750 million bond to support part of our planned strategic investment in Zeiss SMT,
which is expected to close in Q2 of 2017.
With that, I would like to turn to our expectations and guidance for the first quarter of 2017. We
expect continuing sales strengths in Q1 with total net sales of approximately €1.8 billion, of which
an estimated €30 million will be deferred EUV revenue.
Foundry shipment strengths supporting 10 nanometer ramps will continue in Q1, and will be firmly
supported by memory shipments. We also expect to ship our first NXE:3400 EUV system in the
quarter. We expect to record the revenue for the system in the third quarter of the year since this
system will ship in a non-final configuration.
I would also like to mention here that one of the EUV systems that we expected to ship early this
year, postponed from Q4 last year due to a customer readiness issue, will not ship this year as
originally planned. Due to other attenuating circumstances, this customer has now decided to
place a system upgrade order for this tool, and will take delivery of it in 2018 where it will add to
two other systems at the customer site to be shipped this year. This leaves our system output
plan at 12 new systems and our shipment plan at 13 considering the one additional system that
missed delivery for material availability reasons in Q4 2016.
We expect our Q1 service and field options revenue to again come in above €650 million, driven
by continued demand for Holistic Lithography options, high-value upgrades and our growing
installed base. So, now, we will report HMI revenues under field options and services.
Gross margins for Q1 is, again, expected to be around 47%, including the effect for the purchase
price allocation for the HMI acquisition. The negative impact of this purchase price allocation
adjustment for Q1 is more than 1 percentage point. The impact for the full year is about €90
million, and will reduce to about €40 million per year from 2018 onwards.
R&D expenses for Q1 will be about €320 million, and SG&A is expected to come in at about €95
million. The uptick in R&D spend is driven by the inclusion of HMI and accelerated investments in
pattern fidelity metrology, our contributions to SMT's High NA development, our own High NA
development acceleration and the strong U.S dollar.
As a reminder, regarding our share buyback program. Last year, we purchased €400 million worth
of our own shares before the program was paused during our acquisition of HMI. It remains
paused for the time being, as we closed our planned investment in Zeiss SMT.
The transaction is in the regulatory approval process in the required jurisdictions. We already
received the approval in South Korea and expect the approval from Germany and China in timeto close the transaction in Q2 2017.
And finally, an increase of our annual dividend from €1.05 to €1.20 will be proposed at our Annual
General Meeting of Shareholders in April.
With that, I would like to turn the call back over to Peter.
`Peter T. F. M. Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Wolfgang. 2016 was indeed a remarkable year for ASML, not only financially, as
highlighted by Wolfgang, but strategically and product technology-wise, as we continue to
prepare ourselves for continued growth in the coming decade and beyond.
Now, I'd like to take a moment to highlight some of these key events. Firstly, our acquisition of
HMI will enable us to move from simple imaging and imaging placement significantly in the
direction of full pattern fidelity control, which is the key requirement and value provider for our
customers at 7 nanometer and below. This, along with an expansion of our current products in
broader types of applications allows us to lay the foundations for future growth in our Holistic
Lithography products group.
Secondly, we brought a key supplier partnership to the next level, by agreeing to acquire a
minority stake of Carl Zeiss SMT, our major critical optic supplier, for the purpose of not only
securing the extension of EUV imaging technology, but also strengthening the current combined
businesses of the two companies to improve cooperation and governance.
The co-investment of about €760 million over a six-year period centers on the R&D investments
of next-generation lenses and related capital expenditure, also referred to as High NA, which is
critical in meeting our customers' imaging roadmaps throughout the next decade.
Lastly, and probably more significantly, the industry has turned the corner on the EUV. Throughout
the year, we continue to execute on mutually agreed performance milestones, which allowed our
customers to grow confidence in the technology and tool performance. This resulted in customer
decisions to allocate their most critical layers of the next generation nodes to EUV, beginning with
the industry 7 nanometer logic node.
With customers backing this confidence up with orders, we ended the year with an EUV backlog
of 18 systems as mentioned. Together with the anticipated Q1 orders, this will cover our 2017 and
early 2018 EUV output. As mentioned before, our output capability for 2018 will be around 24
systems. Based on the timing of high-volume manufacturing introduction of the advanced logic
and memory nodes, as announced by our customers, it is realistic to assume that its production
capability will be fully utilized by our customers. This means we will expect a continued order flow
in the coming quarters.
As we move into the next phase of industrialization of EUV, our focus will remain on continued
improvement of key HVM performance metrics very much in line with what customers expect of
our DPV offering, above 90% availability and productivity per tool specifications.
Furthermore, we are heightening our focus on our supply chain to provide the required number
of EUV systems on time and on preparing a competent and sufficiently sizeable EUV field service
organization capable of supporting our customers in a volume manufacturing insertion plants.
With respect to our core product lines, we continue to develop industry-leading imaging systems,
evidenced by the introduction of our latest immersion product offering, the NXT:1980, which hasdemonstrated the fastest ramp of the new product in our history. We have 46 systems shipped in
2016.
For our Holistic Lithography product line, 2016 was also a good year where we launched new
products penetrating new large customer accounts, promising significant new business in the
years to come. Together with the aforementioned progress on the EUV product performance
and related business opportunities, we feel confident in further anchoring our leadership position
in the semiconductor equipment marketplace.
And turning to the short-term, as Wolfgang mentioned, we expect to build upon a record 2016,
seeing further significant opportunities to grow in 2017. We see a continued ramp of the foundry
logic 10 nanometer node, as recently confirmed by one of our large foundry customers, with
memory strength driven by expected stronger bit growth in 2017.
In addition, service and field option sales are again expected to continue to grow in 2017. This will
continue to be driven by sales of scanner system upgrades and our growing Holistic Lithography
product offering.
In 2017, we'll see the first real impact of EUV system sales, with the recognition of systems
shipped in the calendar year, as well as pieces of remaining revenue recognition from systems
shipped in the past. For 2017, our opportunities and challenges are crystal clear. The commitment
of our customers to EUV is now apparent and evidenced by our significant and growing EUV
backlog.
Supporting our customers' intent of moving EUV into volume production in the coming 24 months
will remain our number one priority in order to ensure that our customers can deliver their next
node transitions as planned. ASML remains committed to do everything within our capability and
power to bring EUV to manufacturing race (16:47) as soon as possible.
With that, we would be happy to take your questions.
`Craig DeYoung, Vice President, Investor Relations Worldwide `
Yeah. Thank you for letting us take some extra time to review in some depth key events of the
2016 and their impact on our future. The operator will instruct you momentarily on the protocol
for the Q&A session. But beforehand, as I always do, I'd like to ask you kindly to limit yourself to
one question and one short follow-up if necessary. This will allow us to get as many callers in the
hour as possible.
Now, Aaron, could we have your final instructions and then the first question, please?
Q&A
Operator
Of course, sir. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, at this time, we will start the question-and-
answer session. The first question comes from `Weston Twigg, Analyst, Pacific Crest Securities. Please state your company name,
followed by your question.
Q - `Weston Twigg, Analyst, Pacific Crest Securities `
Hi, thanks. Pacific Crest. So, my question is related to the memory strength. You mentioned that it
should stay strong through 2017, particularly on the DRAM side with bit growth. And I was justwondering if you're seeing new DRAM capacity being installed given the pricing trends or if these
are tools that are being shift to NAND and then replaced in the DRAM fabs.
A - `Peter T. F. M. Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. It's more of the latter. So, we've seen significant relocations from DRAM capacity into NAND
throughout 2016 or starting 2015. And it's really feeling it all back up. Like we said in the previous
call, we saw quite a significant capacity drop in 2016 in terms of wafer starts per month in DRAM,
which is a double-digit drop, and that's being filled up with new DRAM capacity.
Q - `Weston Twigg, Analyst, Pacific Crest Securities `
Okay. And then, I guess, as a my follow-up, are those upgrades on the NAND side, or those
being upgrades that are contributing to your field and service options, or is that a different
revenue line...
A - `Peter T. F. M. Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, it's...
Q - `Weston Twigg, Analyst, Pacific Crest Securities `
...or those even being upgraded?
A - `Peter T. F. M. Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
It is the first. It's in the – these are the upgrades that are in the field service and option line.
Q - `Weston Twigg, Analyst, Pacific Crest Securities `
Got it. Thank you.
Operator
The next question comes from `Kai Korschelt, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please state your company name, followed by your
question. Please go ahead.
Q - `Kai Korschelt, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Yeah. Good afternoon. It's Bank of America. The first one was, Peter, just to clarify your
commentary around the EUV shipments next year. So, I think I heard you say it's realistic to expect
24 tools. What would be the sort of puts and takes on kind of whether you would ship capacity or
maybe potentially slightly less in terms of adoption and capacity?
And the second question was on the Chinese CapEx, and I think you said something on the video
on your website. Some of the data points that's been making the rounds on the press suggest
that there could be tens of billions of dollars spent on new memory fabs in China. So, I'm just
wondering in terms of the phasing, timing or a magnitude, how much visibility do you have on
those projects? Thank you.
A - `Peter T. F. M. Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Okay. Thanks. On the 2018, the determining factor is not so much our capability or the
performance of the two. It is really, as you can understand, the next nodes of our customers have
complexities in there that are not only driven by our capability, or our lithography capability. This isreally based on the introduction timing of our customers. So – but our customers are – all our
major customers have made public statements about when they want to introduce their next
nodes and start using EUV.
We take those statements, and actually, we don't only take the public statements, to be honest,
we have very detailed discussions with those customers on those public statements and what
that means, so we get very detailed plans of when they need, what to when. And that is really
driving the, let's say, realistic assumption that – when we have 24 units to sell, we will sell 24 units
when they stick to their plans. So, this is basically what it is. There's nothing more to it than that.
So, customers will decide. And that could be that if one customer says, I need to – for whatever
reason, I need to do an introduction six months later, there will be a six-month rescheduling.
That's what really drives the business.
China CapEx; yeah, it's interesting. I mean, we've also very – a lot of interest following every
comment that comes out of China on the tens of billions that will be invested in all kinds of fabs
all over the place, but you also have to look at what impact that will have on our short-term
business. Now short term, yes, there are many ceremonies of fab openings or fab extensions, I
would say. The number of real new fabs is limited on, let's say, Chinese-owned companies. Of
course, there are the foreign companies that open fabs in China, but I think the reference to the
tens of billions are really Chinese-owned companies.
That is definitely a promise. And when we look at the next 12 to 18 months, it is good. There's
some good logic opportunity, there's some memory opportunity there. But it's all within the
realms of good business and not the extraordinary growth that some people are portraying. That
will very likely happen, but it's very likely also going to take a bit more time than the 2017, let's
say, slash, 2018 timeframe.
Q - `Kai Korschelt, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. Great. Thank you.
Operator
The next question comes from Sandeep Deshpande. Please go ahead, sir. State your company
name, followed by your question.
Q - `Sandeep Sudhir Deshpande, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
Hi. Sandeep Deshpande, JPMorgan. Just a quick question, Peter. On the order intake, I mean, in
the fourth quarter, you took order for 60 EUV tools. At the same time, we – I mean, we have
some expectation that you will sign volume purchase agreements with some of your large
customers for these EUV tools.
So, is it now that you will be taking these EUV orders as a normal part of the business as you
seemed to have done in the fourth quarter, or are we to still expect volume purchase
agreements in the next few months? And I have one follow-up question on the 2018 shipments.
A - `Peter T. F. M. Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. On the order intake in Q4, that was based on a volume purchase agreement for the – you
could say, the 3400 delivery. It does not include yet the additional options that they need on
those 3400s. So, you could say if there's a fully signed and closed volume purchase agreement
with that customer not entirely because the options are still under discussion what they need andBut, yes, those orders were indeed taken under the agreements that we have on the pricing and
the pricing models. That's just for one customer. I mean, other customers will follow suit as we
continue in 2017. And for those who will introduce EUV later, those VPAs will be also signed later
on in 2018. So, it's – as you said, it's the normal course of business.
Q - `Sandeep Sudhir Deshpande, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
And then, following on, on to 2018 shipments, I mean, you're going to have this capacity for 24
tools potentially. And then, you've already got six of those orders at this point. By which point do
you need to get all your orders so that that capacity will be readied for the customer? Because, I
mean, you've said in the past that you take almost a year to ship these tools, and then there is a
time which the customer takes to install the tool in their own facility and get it stabilized.
A - `Peter T. F. M. Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Well, the time to ship and install is about a year. So, it's not plus-plus. So, it's not for us a
time – as a year to ship the tool. Well, our time is, we can ship an EUV tool – sorry, we can install an
EUV tool in about three months – three to four months, and we have currently an internal cycle
time in the factory of about six months. So, all in all, for us, it takes about nine months from start
of the tool to getting it installed at the customer site. Now, then the customer needs to, of
course, start to qualify their production. The issue is in the supply chain. And in the supply chain,
we need lenses, we need the large mechanical modules that need to be produced, and this is
limiting our output capability right now.
However, having said that, to your earlier questions, we are in very intense and deep discussions
with customers on volume purchase agreements. And it is also clear that those customers need
those tools at a certain moment in time. And taking into account our cycle time reduction plans, it
is not absolutely necessary throughout 2017 that we need to keep on to this two-year timeline.
That will go down, yeah? That will be shorter because we will reduce the cycle time as volumes
go up.
However, to be able to ship 24 units in 2018, those systems need to be booked by the end of
the year. So, in this year. Now, if you're going to ask me when should those orders come in, is it
Q1, is it Q2 or early Q3? I don't know yet, and it's not that important. But what I do know is that if
we need to ship 24 units by – in 2017, those orders need to be in.
Q - `Sandeep Sudhir Deshpande, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
Thank you.
Operator
The next question comes from `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC. Please state your company name, followed by your
question.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC
Yeah. Good morning. Good afternoon. I'm with Evercore ISI. So, I guess, first question, can you
walk through how we should think about the gross margin for EUV through calendar 2017? And
particularly interested how we should think about the inclusion of deferred 100% margins through
the year. Thank you.
A - OperatorOkay.
A - `Wolfgang U. Nickl, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Yeah. I'll take that C.J. I mean, we painted the picture at our Investor Day as well. The starting
point is a gross margin. If you take everything into consideration of about minus 75% in 2016; our
objective is to get this business breakeven from a gross margin perspective in 2017. And then in
2018, you would make another significant step forward. We are thinking somewhere in the 20s or
so. Of course, there are a few things that contribute to that. And you're right, some of the catch-
up revenue that essentially comes at no or low cost will help. But it also will help that this year
we're shipping the 3400, which has a list price of about €20 million higher than the 3350s.
We're also going to continue to make progress on the cost side. We still have significant amounts
of field upgrade that we have to do for no charge, E&O charges. We have learning to do. We're
making progress on that front as well. And if you then take into consideration also the service
business where, as you know, we are charging per wafer out, but we got to mind a growing
installed base that is not productive in churning out a lot of wafers. So, we're still spending a
significant amount of money on this without revenue coming in. But if you take it all into
consideration, we are targeting around breakeven.
As it relates to the total business, we're about 45% gross margin in 2016. I think we are going to
continue to make progress in both businesses. EUV going from minus 75% to about breakeven,
but also the non-EUV business because the mix is shifting towards applications and more higher
value systems, will make progress as well. But overall, I think for your modeling purposes, you
should assume that the total company gross margin will somewhat go down because you're
growing the revenue significantly on the EUV line. So, you should expect a little bit of a step-back
there before then, in 2018, we are marching towards the 50%-plus that we're targeting for 2020.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC
Just as a quick follow-up there. Are you thinking closer to like 43%, 44%? And then, I guess, as my
follow-up on the foundry side, orders ex-EUV came in fairly weak, I think sub-€300 million in the
December quarter. And, I guess, how should we think about the timing of a pickup there? Is that
simply turns where they'll place the order upon your shipment and, therefore, really not an issue?
And how do we think about the trajectory as we contemplate 10/7 nanometer ramp?
A - `Wolfgang U. Nickl, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Yeah. Without tying it down to a specific number but, I think, with everything that we gave you,
between Peter on the shipments and the EUV and the margin and, I think you're in the right ZIP
code there on the gross margins.
Related to orders, first of all, we are thrilled be at an overall backlog of €4 billion. Having said that,
same story as in prior calls. We've published the backlog because it gives you a decent structural
view on what's happening in the business. You see memory picking up. You see a lot of EUV
orders coming in. But we always say that – just merely looking at bookings or backlog should not
be your main input parameter in the outlook because, as you know, the order at the end of the
day, in particular, for the more mature business, is merely an administrative act.
We have VPAs with all of our customers, and we get – every other week, we get a detailed sales
forecast and order forecast against that. And that is what's giving us the confidence in the
numbers. So, we will not the slightest bit disappointed about bookings last quarter.Q - `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC
Excellent. Very helpful. Thank you.
Operator
The next question comes from `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC. Please state your company name, followed by
your question. Please go ahead.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Yeah. Cowen & Company. Thank you. I have two. I guess, Wolfgang, first of all, in the presentation
on the metrics around EUV, you definitely showed some continued improvement in availability.
You had two tools that showed a four-week average of greater than 90% versus one last quarter,
but there was no improvement in productivity. Is that because it's not your focus right now? I
guess I would have thought maybe you'd seen more than just one tool producing 1,500 wafers
per day over that three-day period.
A - `Peter T. F. M. Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Let me answer that, Tim. First of all, the reason why we put those metrics in there is; one, to be
able to communicate to you, but also to our customers, what we believed at that time when we
created those metrics, the most relevant milestones were that customers used to get convinced
that EUV was going to be the choice of their next-generation, leading-edge litho production.
Having said that, meeting those targets, and not only those targets, it was the continued, let's
say, showing of those targets throughout the year had actually raised the customers' confidence
to the level to also publicly state, we're going to use EUV. And they follow that up with orders, as
you have seen. Now, just for your information, we are over 200 watts which will actually provide
us way more than 1,500 wafers per day, and that's what we've shown to customers. Yeah?
So, it is about the confidence that we will be at high volume production requirements by the time
that customers need it. And that was shown with those targets. The targets going forward I would
like to relate to are the targets that they need for high volume introduction, like I said in my
introductory comments. It's like with Deep UV where we are moving into that, in all direction. Like
Sandeep said, it's business as usual. We will be all we have to be and we will be over 90%
availability when they need it, when they start HVM production. And we will be at the productivity
of wafers per day as specified by the tool specifications, i.e., 125 wafers per hour.
This is where we are, and this is why we're absolutely confident that we're going to get there.
And that's why it's the last time we're going to give you these targeted numbers because those
milestones have been met, evidenced by their customer orders.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Got it. Got it. Okay, Peter, thank you. And then, I guess, just as it relates to backlog on EUV, so you
had 18 systems in backlog. You have slots for 12 this year. So, obviously, six of those are going to
ship next year. Since you have 24 slots, give or take, next year, does that mean that backlog can
only be 24 exiting this year? Or is the policy such that your – if you get an order, even if it's going
to ship 18 months from now, you're going to put it in backlog so that the backlog exiting this year
can be actually a lot higher than the 24 slots that you have next year? Thanks.
A - `Peter T. F. M. Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `That's correct. I mean, like I said, we have currently, if you would – in 2016, we had a 24-month
lead time. That will go down. But it's not going to be 12 months by the end of this year. So, it's
very likely that they're going to be 2019 orders in there.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Got it. Okay, Peter, thank you so much.
Operator
The next question comes from Amit Harchandani. Please state your company name, followed by
your question.
Q - `Amit B. Harchandani, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Good morning and good afternoon. It's actually Amit Harchandani from Citigroup, and thanks for
taking my questions. Two, if I may. Firstly, my question is with respect to the technical milestones
that you referred to earlier. Could you maybe talk about what are the key areas of improvement
that you're working on within the tool that need to be completed this year or on the verge of
being completed that would take you to the target you've talked about for commercial
introduction in terms of the technological progress?
And secondly, could you also give us a sense of what's happening in the wider ecosystem,
particularly around defectivity and, say, pellicles? And any other components within the
ecosystem, if you could kindly share any updates around those? Thank you.
A - `Peter T. F. M. Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I'll make some comment – I'll make some fair notes (36:30). Yeah. On the key areas of
improvement; well, it's really focused on lifetime extensions of parts. So, it's the industrialization
of those parts, lifetime extensions, taking out some of the quality issues that we know what to
do. That actually brings us to those targets that customers need for high volume introduction,
90%-plus availability and productivity at spec.
On the ecosystem, I think two things, resist and pellicles. Resist; good progress, and we get
progress reports every now and then. And over the last couple of weeks, we got some good
progress reports on photoresist. And on photoresist sensitivity, on line-edge roughness data and
information that give customers good confidence that by end of 2018, 2019, we're going to get
what we want.
On the pellicle, pellicle, we have started to outsource the pellicle production to a supplier that
actually should make the pellicles for the industry, for our customers. Initially, there was a process
that yielded low because pellicle still had some defects on it, on the pellicle itself. As you can
imagine, if the pellicle is a membrane sitting in front of the photo mask, you don't want any
defects on that pellicle because they're big, they will actually print.
Now, by the end of the year, we actually received the first defect-free pellicle. And also there, you
are seeing progress that everybody is looking for. It is not our main concern. What our concern is,
is yes that the supply base of those pellicles will be maturing also, so we get a constant flow of
defect-free pellicles. But if you look at the progress that we have made in last six months, that
gives us the confidence, and also by the time when we need the H volume – the HVM
requirements, we will be there.
Q - `Amit B. Harchandani, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `Thank you, Peter. Just a couple of clarifications on what you said. Firstly with respect to the
technical progress with respect to your tool, so just so that I understand correctly, there are all
incremental improvements really around lifetime extension, but there is no radical improvement
that you need to do. All of that is behind us in 2016. Would that be a correct statement to make
(39:08)?
And secondly, is the topic of actinic inspection tool when it comes to EUV behind us, or does that
still come up in your conversations? So you think the workaround is getting to accepted now by all
the customers who are looking to move on with EUV?
A - `Peter T. F. M. Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
That's correct. I mean, we do not have any discussions on actinic inspection at this moment. And
the workarounds that we currently have either through the pellicle use or the on-wafer inspection
using e-beam tools, that is really what the solutions are that customers are currently using. Now,
the discussion on an actinic inspection tool over time and in the next decade might come back,
but we'll see how effective the current solutions are.
Q - `Amit B. Harchandani, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Thank you very much.
Operator
The next question comes from `Gareth Jenkins, Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker). Please state your company name, followed by
your question. Please go ahead.
Q - `Gareth Jenkins, Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker) `
Yeah. Thanks. This is `Gareth Jenkins, Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker), UBS. One follow-up please and one question. Just to follow
up on memory, your slightly more positive tone on this, does this include in addition to the 1980s
that you're talking about some KrF business?
And secondly, I just wonder whether you could talk about your expectation in terms of conversion
of the 7 nanometer node to your large foundry customers from 10. Thank you.
A - `Peter T. F. M. Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Gareth, on the last question, could you be a bit more specific on your last question on the
conversion, what do you want to know?
Q - `Gareth Jenkins, Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker) `
I'd just like to know the sort of level of conversion that you expect between the 10 and the 7 node
given the similarity or the commonality between the two. So, would you expect it to be more or
less than kind of that we saw at prior nodes?
A - `Peter T. F. M. Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. On the memory, predominantly, yes, it's going to be predominantly 1980s. We always ship
if you add some extra capacity some KrF. But going back to an earlier question, this is really
backing up the installed capacity that was relocated to NAND, which were basically emerging
systems where they were upgraded in the NAND space. So, it's predominantly NXTs, but we
always have some level of capacity space that is in existing fabs, which also need some KrF, butThe level of conversion of 10 nanometer to 7 defectivity; 10 nanometer, there's always a level of
conversion from 10 to 7, which would include upgrades. So, the level of commonality from a
platform point of view is always there, but it's really the performance on overlay and focus that
drives really upgrades. So, when there is a reuse of a existing body in the 10 nanometer space or
a previous node on to the new node, then you see upgrade business, and this is a part of the
business that we see growing in 2017 where we, indeed, see the number of upgrades in the logic
space, but also, in the memory space from, let's say, previous platforms to the newest
specification of the NXT platform really happening. And that is part of the business growth that
we see in the services and options. So not much different than previous nodes. It does lead to a
lot of new business in terms of system upgrades.
Q - `Gareth Jenkins, Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker) `
Can I just follow up and just ask what your expectations for the sort of 10s? I think you've always
talked about wafer starts from the 10 and 7 nanometer geometries combined. I wondered
whether there's been any change in the thought process around the starts on 10 and 7
nanometer?
A - `Peter T. F. M. Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
No. No. Currently not.
Q - `Gareth Jenkins, Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker) `
Okay.
A - `Peter T. F. M. Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
The only thing that we can say is that, of course, we discuss with customers their business and
their plans. I only can say that the 10/7 nanometer confidence that our customers have in being a
big node driven by more than just the smartphone applications, I mean they're all talking about
and it's real, because well, about customers in the automotive space and customers in this space
that is dealing with artificial intelligence and augmented reality, virtual reality, big data analytics.
They're seeing customer applications in that space and that is driving their confidence on the
node sizes. And they keep repeating to us that they strongly believe, based on what they see in
tape-outs that are coming, that is going to be a big node.
Q - `Gareth Jenkins, Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker) `
That's great. Thank you.
Operator
The next question comes from Francois Meunier. Please state your company name followed by
your question.
Q - `Francois A. Meunier, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Yeah. This is Francois Meunier from Morgan Stanley. So yeah, I understand there was a question
around gross margins and there are like zillions of effects (44:18) around it. But there's one I
would like to understand a bit more. I think you guys have been talking about PPA having a
negative impact this year of around €90 million. So it's actually a non-cash impact. So like whenyou guide for 47% gross margin in Q1, actually, the cash gross margin is more like 48%, 48.2% or
something for Q1. Is that the right way to look at it?
A - `Wolfgang U. Nickl, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Yeah. Be careful with the cash, because there are other cash, non-cash related items. But in
principle, you're right. We're guiding to about 47%. And if you just look at the two elements, one
being the amortization of intangibles, we said that's going to be about €40 million per year that's
linear. So it's about €10 million. And then, we said there is €50 million that results from the
revaluation of the inventory to a fair value or market value at the time of closing.
We got to work ourselves through this, and as you can imagine, this is going to be a bit more
skewed to the front of the year rather than the back of the year. And therefore, there is, as you
state, a probably closer to 1.5% impact on the gross margin in Q1. Or in other words, had we not
done the acquisition and the deal with purchase price allocation, we would have been north of
48% in the first quarter. You got that clear?
Q - `Francois A. Meunier, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Okay.
A - `Wolfgang U. Nickl, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
But I wouldn't associate it with cash and non-cash because there's other stuff.
Q - `Francois A. Meunier, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
There are other things going on. Okay.
A - `Wolfgang U. Nickl, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Yeah.
Q - `Francois A. Meunier, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Okay. Very interesting. Thank you very much.
A - `Wolfgang U. Nickl, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Thanks.
Operator
Next question comes from `Farhan Ahmad, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker). Please state your company name followed by your
question.
Q - `Farhan Ahmad, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
Hi. Credit Suisse. Thanks for taking the question. I have a question related to EUV. What are some
of the risk factors that you see going forward? Is there anything that you have to deliver for EUV
to be adopted or should we take these others as a sign that EUV is now at a point that we can
count on its delivery in 2018? And also, can you remind us, again, on what the lead time is for EUV
going forward?
A - `Peter T. F. M. Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `Yeah. I think, ultimately, the proof of the pudding is when customers give you an unconditional
commitment to pay you a lot of money, which I think as happened, I think that decision which I
think most customers have been public about EUV when they want to use it and how they want to
use it, just following this up by orders. So I think it is true, though.
Somebody asked the question earlier that what could happen to make 2018 a year where you're
not going to fully ship your production capacity. And I just answered one of the things is I don't
know customer roadmaps might change, but what they're telling us today and we know there are
number of layers that they want to use EUV on and we have to use that capacity. And only if the
customers change their minds, the things will change. But that's not the case today.
On lead time, like I said, lead time 2016 was just a two-year. We had our supply chain that we had
to kick out of hibernation. Well, they're now awake. I can assure you. So lead times will also
compress somewhat also throughout 2017. I'd love to have a lead time by the end of the year of
about 18 months.
Q - `Farhan Ahmad, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
Got it. Thank you. And can you talk about how do you see the linearity of 2017? Do you see it –
some of our peers have indicated like there is a stronger first half relative to second half. Is that
something you see also? And related to the China 500,000 wafer starts, is any of it hitting this
year or next year?
A - `Peter T. F. M. Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Two questions. So on the linearity, it's too early to say, I mean. Generally, we have lead times of
about six months for our tools, so customers probably give us a very clear indication of the next
six months which looks very good. The rest of the year is a bit driven by expectations. And so,
that's always a bit more uncertain to a certain extent. So that might be the reason why some of
our peers focus more on the first half. It's just visibility.
On China, 500,000 wafer starts next year; we don't see 500,000 wafer starts next year. It's too
much. I mean, it will be there in the end, but as I said it earlier, it's going to take a bit of time. With
some of our customers we've been talking about building new fabs now for two-and-a-half years,
in that same timeframe, our logic customers built the fab and we're shipping tools while we're
still talking about the others.
So this has to kick in to a different gear also. That 500,000 wafer starts next year is absolutely
not what we expect. Good business. Yes, we will expect shipments into new pedestals for our
tools and do fab expansions and perhaps, a new fab, but nothing to the level that you just
mentioned.
Q - `Farhan Ahmad, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
Thank you. That's all I have.
Operator
The next question comes from Jagadish Iyer. Please state your company name followed by your
question.
Q - `Jagadish K. Iyer, Analyst, Summit Redstone Partners LLC `Yeah. Summit Redstone. I've two questions. First, Peter, if you look at your immersion revenue
systems, it has been pretty much stable through the last three years and, in fact, has trended up.
So I just was wondering if as EUV starts to progress, how should we think about the immersion
system trajectory over the next 12 months to 24 months? And then, I have a follow-up.
A - `Peter T. F. M. Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. The next 12 months to 24 months, I do believe that when you look at what is driving our
customers' business, it is 10 nanometer logic and its memory. That still needs those immersion
system. So I think the next 12 months to 18 months, I don't think you will see as a lot of change.
On the longer term, when complexity of chip design increases, the number of layers will also go
up. Now, the incremental layers are very much the critical ones which is going to be EUV. And as
EUV progresses in terms of maturity and productivity, also EUV will grow into the realm of Deep
UV, leading edge Deep UV.
But no matter how you look at it, there's also I think clearly discussed at our Capital Markets Day
immersion in Deep UV will be with us forever. It also means, over the next 10 years or so, it's
going to be a very significant part of our business. For the next 12 months to 18 months, it's going
to be the majority part and a key part of our business, given the fact that those nodes that they
are being designed into are the nodes that we're currently using and ramping which is not an EUV
node. 10 nanometer is an immersion node and high-teens DRAM is an immersion node. So that
will be with us for the next 12 months to 18 months.
Q - `Jagadish K. Iyer, Analyst, Summit Redstone Partners LLC `
Okay. Then briefly, so on the six EUV system orders that you got as a VPA, is it fair to conclude
that you have met the 7 nanometer initial insertion specification with this key customer? Thanks.
A - `Peter T. F. M. Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
Q - `Jagadish K. Iyer, Analyst, Summit Redstone Partners LLC `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
The next question comes from Andrew Gardiner. Please state your company name, followed by
your question.
Q - `Andrew M. Gardiner, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Good afternoon. It's Barclays. Thank you, guys. Just one on to your outlook for 2017. You've given
fairly sort of clear messaging around what you see on the logic space and on memory space and
of course, services and options continue to grow. Just a statement around significant revenue
from EUV for the first time. If I go back to the Capital Markets Day in late October, you seemed to
be indicating at that point something on the order of sort of the low €1 billion mark as a
combination of rev rec achievement (52:48) as well as the deferred revenue coming through. Is
that still a reasonable assumption sort of given sort of better visibility into and how you see EUV
trending for this year?And also, within services and options for this year, now that HMI is closed and you're in the
integration process, what are your expectations for that business over the next couple of
quarters? Thank you.
A - `Wolfgang U. Nickl, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Okay. I'll take that. Andrew, hi. EUV, yeah, what we said before continues to apply. We said we can
ship a maximum of 13 tools, which is the 12 plus 1 carryover. Revenue recognition is now close to
shipment, with shipment for a majority. And yes, there will be some catch-up revenue from last
year where we shipped systems with no revenue recognition. So without tying it down too much,
but I think the number will have €1 billion in for sure, and some will north of €1.2 billion is clearly
within the realm of possibilities.
Service and field options will continue to grow even if you start by – with excluding HMI, we grew
7%, 8% this year, and also based on some of Peter's comments on the upgrades, we think it will
grow at least by that level. It could go 10% or so year-over-year.
And then, we have HMI which were going in (54:29) for like two months last year, and we're not
intending to break this out in the future, but you know from their standalone reporting that this
should be somewhere in the €200 million ZIP code. That is incremental. I think you will see us
announcing new products during the year, but they will not lead to any significant revenue in the...
So EUV, field options and services and HMI are all growth drivers. And then, you have the rest of
the business that is stable and, in some cases, up a little bit. So like we said in our prior remarks, it
should be a pretty good revenue year in 2017.
Q - `Andrew M. Gardiner, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Thanks for the clarification.
Operator
The next question comes from `Douglas Smith, Global Technology Analyst, Agency Partners LLP. Please state your company name followed by your
question.
Q - `Douglas Smith, Global Technology Analyst, Agency Partners LLP `
Hi. It's Doug Smith from Agency Partners. I was wondering, can you break down the 18 EUV
systems backlog into your foundry, memory and IDM groups?
A - `Peter T. F. M. Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, we could, but we generally said we're not doing it, because it will be very customer-specific,
because you could easily say who is who, and that's not what I want. But there are a few memory
orders in there and that's just less than a handful and the rest is, most is logic and IDM.
Q - `Douglas Smith, Global Technology Analyst, Agency Partners LLP `
Okay. And just a clarification. Were you saying that the six EUV orders in Q4 were all from one
customer?
A - `Peter T. F. M. Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
No. There were five from one customer, one was an addition, Doug.Q - `Douglas Smith, Global Technology Analyst, Agency Partners LLP `
Okay. So, five from one customer...
A - `Peter T. F. M. Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
One memory customer and one logic customer.
Q - `Douglas Smith, Global Technology Analyst, Agency Partners LLP `
Okay. And the one that was in this group of five was what you called a kind of quasi-VPN (56:30)?
A - `Peter T. F. M. Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sorry. I have to correct it. I think that was all logic. Sorry. Six were all logic, but were two customers
from – and one had five, one had one.
Q - `Douglas Smith, Global Technology Analyst, Agency Partners LLP `
Okay. And the one...
A - `Wolfgang U. Nickl, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
And on the 18 systems, we have said before that it's five customers in total, not like only the
three...
Q - `Douglas Smith, Global Technology Analyst, Agency Partners LLP `
Right.
A - `Wolfgang U. Nickl, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
...it's five customers in total that have orders in with us.
Q - `Douglas Smith, Global Technology Analyst, Agency Partners LLP `
Right. And it's the one that had the five which were I think that you called the kind of a quasi-VPN
(57:06).
A - `Wolfgang U. Nickl, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Yeah.
Q - `Douglas Smith, Global Technology Analyst, Agency Partners LLP `
Yeah. Okay. Thank you.
A - `Craig DeYoung, Vice President, Investor Relations Worldwide `
Ladies and gentlemen, we have time for one last question. So if you're unable to get through, as
always, feel free to contact the Investor Relations department, and we'll get back to you as soon
as we possibly can to try to help.
Now, operator, if we can have the last caller, please.
OperatorOf course, sir. The final question comes from `Robert Sanders, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG. Please state your company name
followed by your question. Please go ahead, sir.
Q - `Robert Sanders, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
Yeah. Good afternoon. Just a question about the NXE:3400. So the shipments that customers
have ordered, are you going to upgrade the source to 250 watt at a later stage? And is that a
free upgrade? And then, the second question would just be on the HMI's business. It does seem
to be tracking below expectations from June when you acquired. I was just wondering what's the
update there on the outlook and how that business is tracking. Thanks.
A - `Peter T. F. M. Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
On the NXE:3400, no, there's no major source upgrade. It's just cranking up the power.
Q - `Robert Sanders, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
Okay.
A - `Peter T. F. M. Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And so, that is not necessary, the source is the source, and we'll be capable of doing 250 watt.
And at least it's going to be above 205 watts. Whether it's 250 watt doesn't really matter
because of 205 watts where 125 (58:20) wafers per hour, and that's the throughput specification
but – 250, by the way, is also not with this particular source design is not our end target. I think
with this particular design we can go higher. We can go 300 watts and above.
Our HMI, below expectations.
A - `Wolfgang U. Nickl, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
I mean there is no significant difference in what we have seen already during our due diligence
time. And since this is a growing business, more importantly, the roadmap going forward is well
aligned not only within us and HMI, more importantly, also with the technology focused
customers. So we're looking forward to a significant opportunity like we said at our October call,
which could be up to €1 billion by 2020.
A - `Peter T. F. M. Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, Rob, you have to remember that in 2017, we still have the majority of the HMI sales or you
would call the standalone HMI sales. What we're really looking at is when you may remember the
presentation that we had at the time of the acquisition that the area where we believe we will
have a significant growth opportunity is the combination of the Holistic Lithography or the
computational lithography competencies of ASML with the HMI capabilities creating a new
product. That is where we think there is going to be a big market and a big growth opportunity.
And that's not for 2017. That will be 2018 onwards.
Q - `Robert Sanders, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG `
Thanks a lot.
A - `Peter T. F. M. Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay? Yeah. Thank you.A - `Craig DeYoung, Vice President, Investor Relations Worldwide `
Good. Well, thank you, everybody. On behalf of ASML's Board and management, we'd like to
thank you for joining us in the call today. And, operator, if we could have your formal conclusion to
the call, we'd appreciate it. Thank you.
Operator
Of course, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes ASML 2016 fourth quarter and annual
financial results conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect your line.