Y 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the ASML Q4 and Full Year 2021 Financial Results.
Throughout today's introduction, all participants will be in listening-only mode. And after ASML's
introduction, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. (Operator Instructions).
I would now like you to turn over to the conference call over to Mr. `Skip Miller, Head - Investor Relations. Please go ahead,
sir.
`Skip Miller, Head - Investor Relations `
Thank you, operator. Welcome everyone. This is `Skip Miller, Head - Investor Relations, Vice President of Investor Relations at
ASML. Joining me today on the call are ASML's CEO, `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer; and our CFO, `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
The subject of today's call is ASML's 2021 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Results. The length of this
call will be 60 minutes and questions will be taken in the order that they are received. This call is
also being broadcast live over the Internet at asml.com. A transcript of management's opening
remarks and a replay of the call will be available on our website shortly following the conclusion of
this call.
Before we begin, I'd like to caution listeners that comments made by management during this
conference call will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal
Securities laws. These forward-looking statements involve material risks and uncertainties. For a
discussion of risk factors, I encourage you to review the Safe Harbor statement contained in
today's press release and presentation found on our website at asml.com and in ASML's Annual
Report on Form 20-F and other documents as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer, for a brief introduction.
`Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `Thank you, Skip. Welcome everyone and thank you for joining us for our fourth quarter and full-
year 2021 results conference call. We of course hope all of you and your families are still healthy
and safe. Before we begin the Q&A session, Roger and I would like to provide an overview and
some commentary on the fourth quarter and the full-year 2021, and as well as provide our view of
the coming quarters. And Roger will start with a review of our fourth quarter and full-year 2021
financial performance with dramatic comments on our short-term outlook, and I will complete the
introduction with some additional comments on the current business environment and on our
future business outlook.
Roger?
`Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Peter, and welcome everyone. I will first review the fourth quarter and full-year
financial accomplishments and then provide guidance on the first quarter of 2022. Net sales came
in within guidance at EUR5 billion. The effect of the logistics center startup and supply chain issues
communicated during our Q3 results, did a bit longer than expected to resolve, affecting some
DPV shipments in Q4. In order to address our customers needs or additional capacity, we
completed an increased number of productivity upgrades in Q4 as a way to provide them with
incremental productivity enhancements. We shipped 12 EUV systems and recognized EUR1.6
billion revenue from 11 EUV systems this quarter.
Net system sales of EUR3.5 billion was again more weighted towards Logic at 73%, with the
remaining 27% from Memory. Installed Base Management sales for the quarter came in at EUR1.5
billion, significantly above guidance, primarily due to software upgrades. As just mentioned in the
strong demand environment customers continue to use productivity upgrades to increase output
of their installed base. Gross margin for the quarter was 54.2% and was above guidance primarily
driven by higher software productivity upgrades. Operating expenses, R&D expenses came in at
EUR681 million and SG&A expenses at EUR203 million, which was slightly above guidance.
In Q4 we had other income of EUR214 million related to the sale of the non-semiconductor
businesses of Berliner Glas. Net income in Q4 was EUR1.8 billion, representing 35.6% of net sales
and resulting in an EPS of EUR4.39.
Turning to the balance sheet. We ended the fourth quarter with cash, cash equivalents and short-
term investments at a level of EUR7.6 billion. Moving to the order book, Q4 net system bookings
came in at EUR7.1 billion including EUR2.6 billion for 0.33 NA EUV systems and one 0.55 NA EUV
system and EXE:5000 systems. Order intake was strong from both Deep UV and EUV, largely
driven by Logic with 77% of the bookings and Memory accounting for the remaining 23%.
For the full year net sales grew 33% to EUR18.6 billion. EUV system sales in 2021 was EUR6.3
billion, which is a 41% increase from last year. We achieved 50% EUV growth margin systems on
the systems in 2021, continue to improve EUV service margin. Non-EUV system sales in 2021 was
EUR7.4 billion, which is a 26% increase from last year. On the market segments for 2021 Logic
system revenue was EUR9.6 billion, which is a 30% increase from last year. Memory system
revenue was EUR4.1, which is a 39% increase from last year. The Installed Base Management
sales was EUR5 billion, which is a 35% increase compared to previous year.
In 2021, we had total bookings of EUR26.2 billion, more than 2x increase year-on-year, reflecting
customer strong demand for EUV and Deep UV technology. Our R&D spending increased to
EUR2.5 billion in 2021, as we continue to invest in innovation across our product portfolio. Overall
R&D investments as a percentage of 2021 sales was about 14%, SG&A was about 4% of sales.Net income for the full year was EUR5.9 billion, 31.6% of net sales, resulting in an EPS of EUR14.36.
Improvements in working capital contributed to a free cash flow generation of EUR9.9 billion for
2021, mainly driven by customer down payments following the very significant order intake this
year. We continue to invest in support of our roadmap and plan capacity ramp. Excess cash will be
returned as per our policy.
With that, I would like to turn to our expectations for the first quarter of 2022. We expect Q1 total
net sales to be between EUR3.3 billion and EUR3.5 billion. Lower guidance relative to Q4 is
primarily due to a number of so-called fast shipments. These are our shipments in the quarter for
both EUV and Deep UV, that will not complete factory acceptance testing. As we've discussed in
prior quarters, fast shipments are in support of customers desire to bring systems into
production as quickly as possible, by skipping some of these testing in our factory, we can
shorten the cycle time.
Final testing and formal acceptance then takes place at the customer site, at which time we will
recognize revenue. The value of the Q1 shipment is expected to be between EUR5.3 billion and
EUR5.5 billion which means approximately EUR2 billion of revenue is expected to be deferred to
subsequent quarters. We expect our Q1 Installed Base Management sales to be around EUR1.2
billion. Gross margin for Q1 is expected to be around 49%. The lower gross margin quarter-on-
quarter is primarily due to the fact shipment impact of delayed revenue and lower upgrade
business compared to last quarter.
The expected R&D expenses for Q1 around EUR760 million and SG&A is expected to come in at
around EUR210 million. Our estimated 2022 annualized effective tax rate is expected to be
between 15% and 16%. Regarding our capital return, ASML paid total dividends of EUR1.4 billion in
2021, made up of the 2020 final dividend and the 2021 interim dividend. ASML intends to declare
a total dividend with respect to 2021 of EUR5.50 per ordinary share. Recognizing the interim
dividend of EUR1.80 per ordinary share paid in November 2021, this leads to a final dividend
portfolio to the General Meeting of EUR3.70 per ordinary share. Total 2021 dividend is a 100%
increase compared to the 2020 dividend. The 2022 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders will
take place on April 29, 2022 in Veldhoven. 2021 was a rather exceptional year in terms of share
buyback. ASML acquired 14.4 million shares for a total amount of EUR8.6 billion as part of our
current and previous program.
With that, I would like to turn the call back over to Peter.
`Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Roger. As Roger has highlighted, we have another record year of both sales and
profits. We're seeing unprecedented customer demand across all market segments from both
advanced and mature nodes, driving demand across our entire product portfolio. Looking to
2022, after a lower Q1 revenue due to Q1 fast shipments as highlighted by Roger, we expect a
significant increase in revenue for the remaining quarters.
For the full year we expect a net sales increase of around 20% compared to 2021. And bear in
mind that this 20% sales growth does not include revenue from six EUV fast shipments in Q4
2022. And if you would take the full shipments value of these six EUV fast shipments into the
account, the growth percentage would have been 25%.
For our EUV business, we still expect to ship around 55 systems of which we expect revenue
from six systems to be deferred in 2023 -- to 2023 due to fast shipments. This translates to an
expected EUV system of around EUR7.8 billion in 2022. And our Deep UV and applicationfrom metrology and inspection systems. We also planning fast shipments for some Deep UV
systems, that we do not expect this to impact our 2022 revenue due to inherently shorter
installation times for Deep UV.
We expect a revenue growth of over 20% for non-EUV system revenue. The Installed Base
Management business service revenue will continue to scale with the growing installed base of
systems and customers will continue to look at all methods to add wafer capacity and although
we saw upgrade pulled into 2021 to improve wafer output capability at our customers. We expect
those type of installed based options to also stay very much in demand this year. We currently
expect 2022 Installed Base revenue to be up around 10% year-on-year.
Looking at the market segments, given the very strong demand situation and our continued push
to increase capacity, we see growth, in both Logic and Memory in 2022.
Electric which for some time now about the digital transformation that is on the way as we move
to a more connected world. The broadening application space and secular growth drivers
translate very strong demand for both advanced and mature nodes. With this continued strong
demand we expect the Logic system revenue to be up more than 20% year-on-year.
In Memory we also expect to see continued growth of our business this year. With customer
expectations of DRAM bit growth in the high-teens this year and lithography tool utilization
running at very high levels, customers need to add capacity in addition to planned technology
transitions to meet demand. As DRAM customers migrate to more advanced nodes, we also
expect to see an increase in EUV demand for Memory. We expect the 2022 Memory system
revenue would be up around 25% year-on-year. With this unprecedented demand exceeding our
capacity, we are ramping our output capability to meet the strong demand. Of course there is
challenges and we are even more vulnerable than running at maximum capacity as there is little
room for recovery when things don't turn out as planned. And COVID unfortunately is not behind
us and it impacts everyone including the workforce in our industry and in the supply chain.
We also have to work through supply chain challenges of material and component shortages and
COVID-related supply chain disruptions. In our workforce we have hired a significant number of
people throughout last year, and although we are currently at our plant workforce FTE numbers,
they still need to be trained and brought up to the learning curve. All what I just mentioned needs
maximum management attention, the monitoring, creativity and flexibility of all our partners and
stakeholders.
We are working closely with our customers to address these challenges. We are doing fast
shipments, skipping some of the testing in our factory and completing the final acceptance
testing at the customer site, which provides more capacity as quickly as possible. This reduces
cycle time in our factory and frees up cabin space in our cleanroom, so we can ramp up capacity
more quickly. In addition, we continue to provide software upgrades which will give our customers
more capacity.
As I said before, we are doing our utmost to respond as best as we can to external challenges,
including COVID-related absenteeism and material shortages in our supply chain. Also as we
reported earlier in January, we had a fire just after the New Year, inside a part of our factory in
Berlin. The fire was extinguished during the night and fortunately no persons were injured during
this incident. The fire occurred in part of one production building on the site in Berlin and the
smoke partly impacted an adjacent building. We have been able to resume production in parts of
these building already, and the other building on the site that not been affected and are fully
operational. The manufacturing of Deep UV components has been restarted. And although therewas some disruption regarding components for Deep UV, we expect to remediate this in such a
way that it will not affect our output and revenue plan for Deep UV. And as to EUV, the fire
affected part of the production area of the wafer clamp, which is a module in our EUV systems.
Based on our current insights, we believe we can manage the consequences of this fire without
significant impact on our EUV system output in 2022. Al in all, while this was a very unfortunate
event, we are optimistic about the current situation and are very grateful for the enormous
efforts and creativity of our Berlin staff.
On High-NA EUV, we are currently building the first High-NA system in our new cleanroom in
Veldhoven. We received an order for an EXE:5000 in Q4, the fifth order in total for the EXE:5000
model, which provides order coverage for planned High-NA shipments in 2024. In addition, at the
beginning of this year, we received the first order for EXE:5200, EXE:5200 is ASML's next model
High-NA system, which we intend to launch in 2024, after the introduction of our first High-NA
system. EXE:5200 they provide the next step for lithography performance and productivity.
Demand continues to be extremely strong, even to the point where we believe we are also this
year falling significantly short of the customer demand.
Looking beyond 2022, global megatrends we talked about at Investor Day are broadening the
application space and fueling the demand for advanced and mature nodes. Growth in
semiconductor end markets and increasingly higher lithography intensity are driving demand for
our products and services. We along with our supply chain partners are actively adding and
improving significant system built capacity to meet future customer demand. In short, we are
even more confident in our long-term growth opportunity.
With that, we'd be happy to take your questions.
`Skip Miller, Head - Investor Relations `
Thank you, Roger and Peter. The operator will instruct you momentarily on the protocol for the
Q&A session. Beforehand I'd like to ask that you kindly limit yourself to one question with one
short follow-up if necessary. This will allow us to get to as many callers as possible.
Now, operator, could we have your final instructions and then the first question please?
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. At this time we will begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions)
Our first question comes from Joe Quatrochi with Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.
Q - `Joseph Quatrochi, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Yeah. Thanks for taking the question. Curious on the DUV side, demand that you're forecasting
for 2022 is -- quite a bit stronger than we initially anticipated. How do we think about the 20%
growth in the context of the capacity that you and your supply chain are adding relative to, I think
in the past you were talking about hopefully trying to build some inventory -- buffer inventory as
well this year?
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, Joe, it's a good question. And I think it's important to look at the full picture here, including
what happened in the last quarter. Because you might recall that in the last quarter, we were
expecting for the full year of Deep UV of DPV [ph] or the non-EUV business that you want to call itthat way, approximately EUR8.2 billion, that was the expectation we had going into the quarter.
And of course we land substantially below that. We landed at EUR7.4. So there was about
EUR800 million shortfall that we then made up in Q4 with higher EUV sales and higher Installed
Base sales.
So what we're seeing now is that, now that EUR800 million, we're now trying to get that into the
plan for this year. And we can do that, because of course that the material for that production
was in fact already produced by the supply chain. So we have been then at zero, so now it's a
matter for us, within our manufacturing plant here in Veldhoven to get that done. And if you then
do the math, right, so we told you last year that we believe we're going to be kind of flat year-on-
year for Deep UV, that was under the expectation that last year was going to be 8.2, so it's 8.2
this year plus the 800 -- the EUR800 million that you kind of transition from last year, that gets
you to about the EUR9 billion that you get to when you add the 20% to last year. So that's the
math. So in fact this transition from the shortfall of EUR800 million that we had in Q4, we have the
supply chain for that and now it's a matter of us trying to squeeze that into the manufacturing
capability here in Veldhoven.
Q - `Joseph Quatrochi, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Got it. That's helpful color. And then just a quick follow-up on your memory revenue growth
expectations, I think the other expectations for just total memory WFP [ph] is more around flat. So
can you help us maybe understand just how much of that is being driven by EUV adoption?
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I mean, well, at least what we can say on EUV adoption is that, about 20%, a little north of
that even of the EUV sales that we're going to see this year -- system sales will be Memory. So if
you take about EUR8 billion -- a little under EUR8 billion, if you look at the revenue number for
EUV, 20% of that is related to Memory. So that's already a substantial part I would say, is that
number.
Q - `Joseph Quatrochi, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Very helpful. Thank you.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
You're welcome.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Krish Sankar, Analyst, Cowen and Company with Cowen and Company. Please go ahead.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Analyst, Cowen and Company `
Yeah. Hi, thanks for taking my question. I had two of them, first one, Roger, for FY'22 I got the
revenue guidance from the tax rate. Did you give a gross margin and OpEx guidance for the full
year?
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
We didn't, but I'm happy to talk about it and give you a little bit of flavor as to where we see this
land. And frankly, I think we're going to see a gross margins for this year, a little over the grossmargin that we have for the last year. So I would say it's around 53%, that would be my
expectation for the year.
And I guess your next question -- your next implied question is going to be, so help me
understand that. Of course we start with a 52.7% for last year, which we have to recognize is
already helped by the very significant software upgrades packages revenue that is in there, and
that as we've said before is very helpful to the gross margin. So if you neutralize the very high
impact that that's had on the gross margin for last year, I would say for the year you probably
take out about 0.7%. So that gets you to a base -- a normalized days of 52%. And then there is a
few things, first-off, the NXE pricing, which is primarily driven by the fact that we only have deals
[ph] in this year in comparison to the mix of last year, that would give you about 1.5%. And then
we talked a little bit about the High-NA impact on the gross margin that's a little bit higher this
year than it was last year, I would expect about 25% [ph] there. So if you do -- if you add it all up
and you got a 53% then there is a little bit of a swing factor as to the composition of Deep UV in
terms of drive versus emerging. At this stage we expect both of them to grow about 20%. So I
would say it's about neutral for the gross margin, but that's the build-up to the 53%.
In terms of OpEx, we've only guided the numbers for Q1 as we typically do only for the quarter.
But I think it's safe to say that the 4% on SG&A and 14% on R&D, I think those assumptions are
safe assumptions for the full year, and then obviously on the basis of the EUR22.3 billion that sort
of implied in the 20% year-on-year growth for revenue.
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
We actually, gradually correlate the (Multiple Speakers).
Q - `Krish Sankar, Analyst, Cowen and Company `
Thank you. Roger, you already (Multiple Speakers). I just had a quick follow-up for Peter or Roger.
The 20% growth in Deep UV this year, can you give some color into how much of that you expect
DUV Memory to grow? And how much should DUV for foundry growth this year? And I think,
Roger, you mentioned dry and immersion is roughly split half-half this year, is that correct?
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
That is correct, that is what I said. I expect both to go up about with the same percentage of
about 20%, yeah. And then we gave you the numbers for the increase in the Memory and Logic,
and I gave you the EUV number for Memory. So frankly, I think I have given you all the building
blocks you need to come out with the right number there.
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And just a reminder -- Logic will be up more than 20% year-on-year and Memory it's around 20%
up year-on-year. So -- and then with the EUV numbers you can probably figure it out.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Analyst, Cowen and Company `
Very helpful. Thank you folks. Thank you very much.
OperatorOur next question comes from `Aleksander Peterc, Analyst, Societe Generale with Societe Generale. Please go ahead.
Q - `Aleksander Peterc, Analyst, Societe Generale
Yes. Hi, good afternoon and thanks for taking the question. Just very briefly on fast shipments, do
I understand correctly that this will now become systematic for EUV going forward? And so this
would then imply that you take the biggest hit from this kind of new practice in '22 and from '23
the impact shouldn't been negligible as you have only little more revenue deferred than what you
recognize from the previous year? But is that cancels out, is that a correct way of looking at
things?
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, Aleksander, I think you see it right. So -- and it's not just trying to -- so we also do this for
immersion, so it's the combination of those two. And at least for this year this will be the standard
practice. And then if you look at this year as we mentioned to you, it is about EUR2 billion that falls
into subsequent quarters as a result of -- as it relates to Q1. What we're going to do is try and at
least try and limit the installation time both for entities and for immersion tools, as a result of
which the impact by the end of the year should be a lot lower, because we try to make the delta
between the shipment moment and the acceptance by the customer made that (inaudible). And
we think we can squeeze out, two, maybe even three weeks and the install time in order to get
there. So that's what we're driving. And as a result of that it is our expectation that the amount at
the end of this year, I mean, we referenced the six EUV tools, that would be about EUR1 billion. So
that's what we're trying to work towards, that the spillover if you like from the last quarter into the
next quarter is going to be only about EUR1 billion, that's what we're driving towards.
So that means that say during the year we are going to gain, if you like about EUR1 billion in the
subsequent quarters and are only going to lose sort of full year EUR1 billion into next year.
Whether this will be the standard practice for years to come, we'll just see how this works. If this
worked well, as we anticipate for ourselves and also for the customers, if we can really prove as
we've done in last year that we can do this without a quality impact if you like on -- in the field.
And we are pretty comfortable that we can do it, then I think this will be appreciated by the
customer and also leads to efficiency on our (inaudible), indeed also for subsequent -- this would
be the -- this will be the practice. And then indeed you won't have any impact any more in the
years to come in.
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, there is and one small addition to that. This would apply to system that we -- where there is
a significant enough level of confidence that we don't run into acceptance problems in the field.
So in -- let's say the first type of a new tool or the first four or five systems, you will probably do
the traditional factory acceptance test in Veldhoven, just to make sure that if you run into any
issue that there is a big R&D group, that can actually help you solve the problem, instead of
moving that problem to the field. So I would have completely concur with what Roger said, with
the exception that, on what we call new product introduction, the first couple of tools, will
probably do in a traditional way.
Q - `Aleksander Peterc, Analyst, Societe Generale
Okay. Thank you very much.
OperatorOur next question comes from `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore ISI with Evercore. Please go ahead.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore ISI
Yeah, good morning, good afternoon. Thank you for taking the question. I guess, first question on
gross margins if I take that 53% and what you guided Q1, it looks like you're going to exit the year
at roughly 54%. Is that the right number to use? And as part of that, that is the low end of your
2025 target model. So I guess, love to hear your thoughts on what you're going to do here
exiting calendar '22 and the confidence that provides to you in terms of your future outlook?
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, C.J., so somewhere in the year and if we want to get to 53% order for the full year, and we
start with 49% somewhere in the year, we'll have higher percentages. And also as I mentioned
somewhere in the year, we will gain on the revenue side, right, on the sales side because we lose
EUR2 billion in the first quarter, only EUR1 billion for the year, so we're somewhat going to gain. So
-- and of course those two are related. Whether all of that is going to be in Q4, I can't tell you. So
somewhere in the course of this year you're going to see an improvement of the gross margin
beyond the 53%. But bear with me it's a little bit too early to already start making predictions on
the gross margin for '23.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore ISI
That's helpful. Thank you. I guess maybe a bigger picture question for you, regarding visibility. I
think this is the highest kind of backlog coverage you've ever had as a company. And I guess
obviously part of that EUV related and obviously part of it's the supply constraints out there. But
just curious how do you think about that? And I guess how are you thinking about the capacity you
need to add into -- I think you talked about EUR1 trillion kind of semiconductor market and the
confidence you have today on 2023 revenue growth?
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I think it's a very good number, that's a very good question. Well I'll give you -- I kind a give
you the exact number but one thing is for sure that we will ship more systems Deep UV and EUV
in 2022 as compared to 2021. That is my expectation to same thing will happen in 2023. And as a
matter of fact, I also expected in 2023 our EUV shipments will go over 60 systems. And part of it
has to do with the cycle time reduction, we talked about could be through fast shipments and
through shortening the installation times. Yes, that will happen.
And also for Deep UV, I think we can still squeeze -- start squeezing and reducing cycle time in
the supply chain. So we can do potentially more systems next year than we do this year. Having
said that, I think we're still in the situation where -- and I said is on the video would also on several
occasions today that the demand for all technology also specifically Deep UV is so significantly
higher than what we can currently make. When we look at our maximum capacity today, I think the
demand, which is not orders, but the demand which customers would like to give us an order, but
they don't, because we don't have the capacity to be around 40% higher than what we can going
to be make. Everything moves out, so what we cannot ship today we'll move to 2023. So now,
what we cannot ship in 2023, we will move to 2024. That actually means that we need to add
capacity beyond what we are currently planning. And that is exactly what we're doing today. I think
we had a capacity plan beyond 2023 that we are currently have decided on. But we haven't, at
this internally, that we haven't transformed that's fully yet in the supply chain with our critical
suppliers, which will be this quarter.So I think we want to be in a situation that beside in 2024, we will be able to meet whatever
demand the customers have. I think we are in a situation where on leading edge immersion and
EUV, the customers have nowhere to go. And we don't want to keep pushing excess demand
being described this -- the demand overall maximum capacity to move -- possibly move into the
next year. So this is what we are doing. I already gave you an indication on the EUV for 2023, but
that will be above 60% [ph], because a lot of the measures that we have taken, that I think we
also -- we are -- we have taken a early decision that we indeed need to increase our capacity
beyond that. And that will be something which we will be discussing with you all, probably --
hopefully when we get it all the confirmation from our clinical suppliers next quarter.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore ISI
Very helpful. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Sandeep Deshpande, Analyst, J.P. Morgan with J.P. Morgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `Sandeep Deshpande, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Yeah. Hi. Thanks for having me on. I mean, my question is actually a sort of follow up. But when I
look at your 2025 guidance, Peter, you've guided to EUR25 billion to EUR30 billion in sales. But
when you look at your sales over the last four quarters -- sorry your orders over the last four
quarters and add to that, your Installed Base Management, you're already running at four-quarter
run rate of over EUR31 billion, really. So is the -- while -- does the '25 guidance need to be
updated? Or do you think that this was a different sort of period we've been in or how should be
looking at that 2025 guidance of ASML?
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Well, let's do everything in the right order. And that's -- first look at the customer demand
and the demand curves and have very in-depth discussion as you know with our customers on
their CapEx plans. And their CapEx plans are driven by what they currently see us being short in
customer demand, not only for this year but for next year, for the longer-term. And I can only
remind you of the very let's say confident messages that are present that given over the last few
days on how they feel about the strength of the demand. And we can also go into the details,
why we think the longer term demand will be higher.
And having said that, on top of that, there is going to be a push by the drive for technological
sovereignty, there will be incentives are around the globe, that should build that capacity, that
comes on top, which I don't think we will translate into significant staff capacity anywhere before
2024, anywhere we think at the earliest, probably more like 2025, 2026.
Now having said that, and going back to the previous question, I think this is why we are looking at
our maximum capacity for us in the supply chain. And I gave the answer I think this is the work that
we're doing today. And when we have that confirms that we can actually do that, then that would
be the time also to relook at the guidance and to see whether we should indeed adjust some of
the numbers that we gave you as a quarter ago. But that in that order, we have to get ourselves
comfortable with the demand situation vis-a-vis our customers. We are translating that into a
capacity number, which we need to get confirmed with our key supplier scenario, the size and
(inaudible) and the details of this world, yeah, that needs to be confirmed and that will leads to
construction activities, where you likely need to add square meters. And that means that, if you
have that ground information, we can say, when we have that looking at the demand situation,what should we do with the 2025 range that we gave you. And when we have concluded that we
will come back to you with that information.
Q - `Sandeep Deshpande, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Thanks, Peter. Just one quick follow-up on, I mean, you've indicated in your recent release that
you got a new e-beam tool shipping. Is this e-beam business now going to become much more
significant in the next few years as these new tool ship, because I mean clearly your lithography
business has flourished massively but your e-beam business has been slower to take off, so can
you make any comments on that?
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I think the fact that I think the (inaudible), it's close to 1100, I mean, this is definitely a tool.
And actually, I think it's being back today, so that will ship. We have high expectations of it, which is
good is that we shipped to our first customer. And yes, when we get the clarification of that tool, I
believe that's going to be a driver for higher sales numbers for our e-beam business. Next would
effect, our single beam business where sales are strong.
Q - `Sandeep Deshpande, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Thank you very much.
Operator
Our next question comes from Francois Bouvignies with UBS. Please go ahead.
Francois, if your phone is on mute please unmute, you may ask your question.
Q - `Francois-Xavier Bouvignies, Analyst, UBS `
Hi, can you hear me now?
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I can hear you.
Q - `Francois-Xavier Bouvignies, Analyst, UBS `
Yeah. Sorry about that. So my question actually was on High-NA and the release you did with Intel
and you disclose four orders back in '18. Now you had an order last quarter, you are discussing
another one with Intel today. And in addition, you changed your disclosure of the net bookings
including High-NA now. So my question is what should we expect going forward in terms of High-
NA in terms of activity? Should we see more and more High-NA going forward in the following
quarters? And coming back to your 2025 guidance which -- with five sales of High-NA you have
65 -- currently in your backlog now. So how should we think about this moving part and you
forecast out of '25?
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I think on the 2025 number, it also said in my introductory comments that EXE:5000 which
is the R&D to which the development tool. (inaudible) our best five, that will be shipped starting in
2023 to 2024. So in 2025, it's the High-NA tool, is the one that we -- that's a 5200. So while they
received the first order for this quarter and the first quarter of 2022. I think, yes, so you willorder activity for the High-NA 5200 going forward. I would expect that, but that's driven by
indeed the ship and plan 2025. Now, I think as Aleksander asked the question on the 2025
model, I think this is not a time to piecemeal, give you that 2025 model. But will come back -- that
I think High-NA, this is not so much connected in 2025 to let's say, the size of the industry and the
demand in the industry, it's really technology transition.
So the way it looks now I think they're pretty solid on the plan. I think anything we said it was
during the last quarter. With the debt -- the big evolutionary step from low-NA to High-NA was the
optics. Basically bigger optics very significant challenges in measuring the mirrors and we
succeeded. It was a success, it is a success, so we can execute. And this is what we are doing
now, I mean, we go to the (inaudible) factory now, you would see this massive tool. I mean, we
showed you in the press conference that kind of a picture of some of our engineers -- production
engineers in front of frame, now you could just see the size of the thing, we're executing. I think
receiving the first order for 5200, which is going to have, let's say a new standard setting new
standards for lithographic performance in terms of imaging and overlay, it also has sets new
standards for productivity. So like Roger said at the press conference, this is a tool that will go for
eight, before a price very significantly over EUR300 million.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
First of all, one additional comment on the (inaudible) as we also said at the Investor Day. The
reason we have five there is not because of shipments, because I expect more shipments in
2025 then five. The reason we set in all scenarios five, is because of revenue recognition,
because this is and then finally new product. And therefore it's hard to predict at this point in
time, how the information is going to happen or the testing is going to pan out, et cetera, et
cetera. So that's why we set a very conservatively just put five into any model. So it's not related
to volume or shipments, it's just a pretty conservative estimate, that it might take a bit longer
before these are actually recognized this reference. So that's why we put inside.
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah.
Q - `Francois-Xavier Bouvignies, Analyst, UBS `
That's very clear, thank you both. And maybe just quick follow-up on the supply constraint, which
was the highlight last quarter I believe and you don't talk too much about supply constraint
anymore, so should we read that, it's improving and you see risk less important now. I mean, how
should we think about the supply constraints that you had last quarter and how is it now?
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I think it doesn't ease, that the fact is you know -- life is tough, you just adjust to it. I mean,
that's what we're doing. So basically it's effect of life and it's a daily battle of our sourcing people
to make sure that we get guarantees on supply -- in the supply chain, because we don't buy
those components. Now those components are being both our suppliers, that what we do. We
actually consolidate the shortages, which is especially components, microchips -- different layers
in the supply chain. So we actually consolidate it and we bring it into it, that we call scarcity center.
And then we classify those components by semiconductor manufacturer. And then we get on to
phone with them and then say, you know, can you help us, maybe you can help us by what's on
stock, giving its worst or helping us to manage that through the broker system or the distributor
system or you know making sure that those particular chips get somewhere and it's not many, I
mean, it's a few hundred to a few thousand of certain type, because we don't make that manysystems. And that's how we manage this and we're able to do this day-by-day, but I don't think
the situation has gotten any better, it's just a recap better at managing it.
Q - `Francois-Xavier Bouvignies, Analyst, UBS `
Okay, makes sense. Thank you very much.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Didier Scemama, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch with Bank of America. Please go ahead.
Q - `Didier Scemama, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hey, good afternoon gentlemen, thank you. Just wanted to check or double check a couple of
things on EUV for next year. So can you talk a little bit about what's your capacity will be for low-
NA and high-NA? And then what do you think could be the shipment number for '23 versus the
revenue did the unique, so because we see that six unit shifting from '22 to '23? So if you could
help me understand that and then got a quick follow-up for Roger on the cash flow. Thank you.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Didier on the -- what we expect for 2023, as Peter pointed out, we are working on a
capacity over 60 for next year, so that's on low-NA. We would get the benefit of the six, going
from '22 and into '23. Frankly, we would also if we continue to do fast ship, have a few systems
go from '23 into '24. So if we're able to continue to drive down installation time, we might gain,
one maybe two systems, but that's a net-net, I think for next year, you should expect output in
revenue to more and more be at the same level.
So I think the over 60 in terms of capacity, that Peter referenced, I think is probably the number to
look at. In terms of High-NA, it's going to be very, very small, right in 2023 because we expect to
have look at the first shipment of the key modules in -- at the end of 2023. But I wouldn't hold my
breath whether that leads to revenue recognition in '23.
Q - `Didier Scemama, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Understood. Very clear, Roger. So, on the cash flow, you had a sort of an exceptional working cap
in Q4 and amazing free cash for the full year. I just wonder if you could help us understand
effectively what's your free cash flow expectations for fiscal year '22? And when do you think the
working cap normalizes in your cash flow statement, roughly be it first half, second half? That
rather -- that would be helpful. Thank you.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So you're right. So, I think last year was a pretty spectacular year from a cash flow
perspective, we have nothing [ph] from a EUR5.9 and free cash flow of nine [ph] point times, so
that's a pretty good conversion rate. But that was exceptional, I think it was exceptional, primarily
driven by the huge order intake that we had this year. And the future contingent of EUV and that's
a primary source of down payments in there. So, I would expect for this year to more and more
neutralize that. So we're never guiding free cash flow but I would say, to have an expectation that
in the steady state we're going to look at somewhere around 100% or a little bit below that
because we are still growing, I think is probably a safe assumption for the free cash flow
development in many years to come.
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `Yeah, you (inaudible) cash conversion rate.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Cash conversion rate, exactly. Yeah
Q - `Didier Scemama, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Excellent. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Amit Harchandani, Analyst, Citigroup with Citi. Please go ahead.
Q - `Amit Harchandani, Analyst, Citigroup `
Thank you. Hello everyone. `Amit Harchandani, Analyst, Citigroup from Citi. Two questions if I may. My first question,
Peter, goes back to the comments you made about assessing your capacity and supply. As ASML
continues to get bigger, obviously this before you talk about geopolitics in the background, how
are you strategically thinking about bringing this capacity online? Are you going to pursue the way
you have? Are you looking at doing more vertical integration? Is it more regional diversification?
Just trying to get a sense of how you're looking at it in terms of strategically adding capacity as
you look to build for the next 5 to 10 years? And I have a follow-up.
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I think that you have been at our Supervisory Board meeting. I mean this is, of course, the
questions that we are addressing (inaudible) asking ourselves because we already get that. But
we are addressing these questions. I think vertical integration to answer that question, I don't
think that is something which we, let's say, we try to avoid it. Sometimes we are forced to it, I
mean things in a glass. In our vertical integration, we actually acquired a supplier, but I had some
very clear reasons, I mean, that had to do with succession planning at the supply, but also that the
technology at that particular supply became more and more critical for the performance of the
system.
So it's not an active. It is more you could say that is more reactive way of looking at growth.
Geographically is with -- but it's -- but geographical and especially against the background of the
geopolitical discussions that are ongoing, of course, it's something which is highly sensitive, so
that we actually look at if we need to build capacity, what's the best place to build capacity, what
are the best additions to add capacity which is as a number of issues that we will look at. It has to
do with the availability of suppliers that can help us, workforce talents, are we going somewhere
where we know we will be heavily competing the workforce talent with some other major players
or you could say giants that would, of course, put you into more difficult situation.
It is incentives that can be provided by governments I mean -- and that includes that where we
currently have our manufacturing locations, but also we are looking at areas where we might not
have significant major manufacturing that we could. So I think these are all things that we are
looking at. It's too early to give you there a finite answer. I think where we have come to the
conclusion that we need to go public, we will go public. But these are all the things that we are
discussing right now in the company, in the Management Board and with the Supervisory Board
because you are right, we need to add significant capacity. I mean, this is -- there is much as 5%
to 10% extra.Thank you, Peter. And as an unrelated follow-up, you've talked about the mine being
unprecedented and significantly higher than capacity. Of course, you put both your simulations
scenario at the CMD last year. So in terms of trying to manage against the risk cost over ordering,
double ordering, what are you doing in terms of the checks discussion with your customers? We
know the secular trends are positive and the industry will remain cyclical, but what are you doing
from your side to minimize, if I may call it the potential risk of oversupply once this capacity all
comes online? Thank you.
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. One major thing is that our booth capacity, I mean, still when you look at our cost of sales
and as Roger can comment on that, the vast majority of our cost of sales is what we buy. So I
think for a SML to add builds capacity is the minority of our cost of sales because we were
basically outsourcing, which is one of the reasons why we are not actively pursuing vertical
integration. We actually love the fact that we have suppliers that are better at what they do than
what we do.
So having said that, we are not afraid of investing in capacity, nor is our supply chain which is most
of our critical suppliers are either like size are exactly the same position as we have. And so all
those supplies are more diversified, so they are able to grow. But, it's -- you are right, there is
always this risk of looking at where we are today, listening to the CapEx expansion plans of our
major customers in Asia and in the U.S., looking at the geopolitical situation and the -- and striving
for more technological sovereignty, not complete, but more what is that incentive programs
means that yes, we will add capacity. Now we can have -- we get our simulation model and
looking at industry analysts, we have been blatantly wrong. And also we can do this again or we
can say let's look forward, let's have a longer term view.
I do believe and I think that's the only run also of our customers that the current tangible growth
numbers for the semiconductor industry will lead to a trillion dollar business by the end of the
decade. We're over EUR500 billion now, which means that -- and that's EUR500 billion was
traded in 40 years' time, so we have less than 10 years to just double it again. So I think we will
need that capacity. Now your question is, will this create temporary overcapacity and it could very
well be. These fabs are big, they are among us. It's all about scale. So yes, when everything is
timed in the same couple of years, we probably see overcapacity, but structurally and longer
term we need that capacity. So I'm not that concerned. We should do it.
And my last reason why I think we should do it is on some of these technologies, we are
unfortunately for the industry the sole source of supply. I don't want to be in the situation, as I said
it before, that we have to keep pushing the over-demand from one year to the other. We have to
create a situation where we carry the responsibility together with our customers that we can
supply what the market needs. And that could indeed mean that there is potential, a bit of
overcapacity. Given the fact that we're very bad at predicting the growth rate of this industry, I am
okay with that. But that's perhaps is an answer of an old man.
Q - `Amit Harchandani, Analyst, Citigroup `
Thank you, Peter.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Stephane Houri, Analyst, ODDO BHF with ODDO BHF. Please go ahead.
Q - `Stephane Houri, Analyst, ODDO BHF `Yes, thank you very much. Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. I just want to have more color
maybe on your Chinese (Technical Difficulty)
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
When you talk about the China business, I guess (Technical Difficulty) China domestic business, I
think that's going to focus on us. And then particularly China domestic business, last year, 2021, it
was about EUR1.8 billion and our expectation is that this will grow at the same pace as company
grows, so it will grow about 20% for this year which in the supply constraints environment is
exactly what you would expect that China would grow exactly the same pace as the other DUV
business would be growing in that (Technical Difficulty). So 1.8% last year expected to grow to
partly 2.1%.
Q - `Stephane Houri, Analyst, ODDO BHF `
Okay, thank you very much. And as a follow-up with you about (Technical Difficulty), I think you said
that was (Technical Difficulty), where do you think it will get the corporate level (Technical
Difficulty) are we still talking about (Technical Difficulty).
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, so last year was about 30%. We expect to get to about 40% this year and then I think it will
take until '25 timeframe I think and so you really get us to the corporate level. So I think we've
made major steps in that becoming more efficient. Obviously, also demand from (inaudible) very
much improving simply because of the scale of EUV, but ultimately that's the trajectory that we
are on. So from this point onwards, the stuff is going to be a lot more, but in 2025, I think it will
get us to approximately corporate book line.
Q - `Stephane Houri, Analyst, ODDO BHF `
Thank you very much.
A - `Skip Miller, Head - Investor Relations `
All right. We have time for one last question. If you were unable to get through on this call and still
have questions, please feel free to contact ASML Investor Relations department with your
question. Operator, may we have the last caller, please.
Operator
So for our last question, we have `Jerome Ramel, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas with BNP Paribas. Please go ahead.
Q - `Jerome Ramel, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas `
Yeah, good afternoon. Maybe a last question for Jose [ph] to come back to the free cash flow in
Q4. Just on the short-term liabilities, it increased by EUR3 billion (Technical Difficulty) Q4 last year.
Is it purely the account payables? And so can you give us a number compared to Q4 last year?
Thank you.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
No, it's not the account payable, that would be a bit rough to our supply chain, right. So that's not
what it is. It is primarily -- it really is down payments, so it's down payments for new orders, orders
for '21 and even beyond that point. That's what it (Technical Difficulty). Again, we were looking atan order intake this year of EUR26 billion and that's really what it is. I mean, you're looking at the
end of this year -- at the end of '21 you're looking at EUR8.5 billion of down payments and a
significant part of that came in Q4.
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I wish we don't spend that money on building the machines and investing and working this year
that we didn't get that money for nothing.
Q - `Jerome Ramel, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas `
Will it be fair to assume that most of the down payment has been done and that will gradually, as
you say, normalize in the course of 2022?
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, exactly. So that's why I say this is a very special year because we get all these down
payments. Next year, you will still get down payments, but you would also do shipments where
you only get a percentage because we already received the down payments in the year and the
year before. And that's why I said that you will see cash conversion up to 100% -- frankly below
100% because of the -- because of the fact the business is still a growing company. So that's why
I think in the longer term, you will see a cash conversion drop below the 100% to the point.
Q - `Jerome Ramel, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas `
Thank you very much.
A - `Skip Miller, Head - Investor Relations `
All right. Now, on behalf of ASML, I'd like to thank you all for joining us today. Operator, if you
could formally conclude the call, I would appreciate it. Thank you.
Operator
This now conclude the ASML 2021 fourth quarter and full-year financial results conference call.
Thank you all for participating. You may now disconnect your line.