Y 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the ASML 2023 Fourth Quarter and Full
Year Financial Results Conference Call on January 24, 2024. At this time, all participants are in a
listen-only mode. After the speakers' introduction, there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. `Skip Miller, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
`Skip Miller, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, operator. Welcome everyone. This is `Skip Miller, Vice President, Investor Relations, Vice President of Investor Relations at
ASML. Joining me today on the call are ASML's CEO, `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer and our CFO, `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
The subject of today's call is ASML's 2023 fourth quarter and full-year results. The length of this
call will be 60 minutes and questions will be taken in the order that they are received. This call is
also being broadcast live over the Internet at asml.com. The transcript of management's opening
remarks and a replay of the call will be available on our website shortly following the conclusion of
this call.
Before we begin, I'd like to caution listeners that comments made by management during this
conference call will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal
securities laws. These forward-looking statements involve material risks and uncertainties. For a
discussion of risk factors, I encourage you to review the Safe Harbor statement contained in
today's press release and the presentation found on our website at asml.com and in ASML's
Annual Report on Form 20-F and other documents as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.
With that, I'd like to turn the call over to `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer for a brief introduction.
`Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `Thank you, Skip. Welcome everyone and thank you for joining us for our fourth quarter and full
year 2023 results conference call. Before we begin the Q&A session, Roger and I would like to
provide to you an overview and some commentary on the fourth quarter and the full year 2023,
as well as provide our view of the coming quarters. And Roger will start with a review of our
fourth quarter and full-year 2023 financial performance, with some added comments on our
short-term outlook, and I will complete the introduction with some additional comments on the
current business environment and on our future business outlook.
Roger?
`Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Peter, and welcome everyone. I will first review the fourth quarter and full year 2023
financial accomplishments and then provide guidance on the first quarter of 2024.
Let me start with our fourth quarter accomplishments. Net sales came in at EUR7.2 billion, which is
just above our guidance, primarily due to more Installed Base business. We shipped 10 EUV
systems and recognized EUR2.3 billion revenue from 13 systems this quarter. Net system sales of
EUR5.7 billion, which was mainly driven by Logic at 63% with the remaining 37% coming from
Memory.
Installed Base Management sales for the quarter came in at EUR1.6 billion, which was higher than
guidance due to additional service and upgrade sales. Gross margin for the quarter came in at
51.4%, which is above our guidance, primarily driven by Installed Base business. On operating
expenses, R&D expenses came in at EUR1.041 billion and SG&A expenses came in at EUR284
million, both basically as guided. Net income in Q4 was EUR2 billion, representing 28.3% of net
sales and resulting in an EPS of EUR5.21.
Turning to the balance sheet, we ended the fourth quarter with cash, cash equivalents, and short-
term investments at a level of EUR7 billion.
Moving to the order book, Q4 net system bookings came in at EUR9.2 billion, which is made up of
EUR5.6 billion for EUV bookings and EUR3.6 billion for non-EUV bookings. These values also
include inflation corrections. Net system bookings in the quarter are more balanced between
Logic and Memory, relative to past few quarters, with Logic at 53% of the bookings, while
Memory accounted for the remaining 47%.
Looking at the full year, net sales grew 30% to EUR27.6 billion, with a gross margin of 51.3%. EUV
system sales grew 30% to EUR9.1 billion, realized from 53 systems, while in total we shipped 42
EUV systems in 2023. Deep UV system sales grew 60% to EUR12.3 billion. Our metrology and
inspection system sales decreased 19% to EUR536 million.
Looking at the market segments for 2023, Logic system revenue was EUR16 billion, which is a
60% increase from last year. Memory system revenue was EUR6 billion, which is a 9% increase
from last year. Installed Base Management sales was EUR5.6 billion, which is a 2% decrease
compared to previous year. At the end of 2023, we finished with a backlog of EUR39 billion. Our
R&D spending increased to EUR4 billion in 2023 as we continue to invest in innovation across our
full product portfolio.
Overall, R&D investments as a percentage of 2023 sales were about 14%. SG&A increased to
EUR1.1 billion in 2023, which was about 4% of sales. Net income for the full year was EUR7.8 billion,
28.4% of net sales, resulting in an EPS of EUR19.91. We finished 2023 with a free cash flowgeneration of EUR3.2 billion. We returned EUR3.3 billion to shareholders through a combination of
dividends and share buybacks in 2023.
With that, I would like to turn to our expectations for the first quarter of 2024. We expect Q1 net
sales to be between EUR5 billion and EUR5.5 billion. We expect our Q1 Installed Base
Management sales to be around EUR1.3 billion. Gross margin for Q1 is expected to be between
48% and 49%. Lower revenue and margin relative to Q4 is primarily driven by lower immersion
volume along with an unfavorable change in product mix. In addition, we also expect EUV volume
and lower Installed Base business in Q1 relative to Q4. The relatively slow start to the year is a
reflection of the current state of the industry coming out of the downturn.
As it relates to gross margin, I would like to make a few more comments on the 2024 margin
drivers as well as our longer-term ambitions of 54% to 56% by 2025. We finished 2023 with a full-
year gross margin of 51.3% and there are a number of developments that could impact the gross
margin in 2024. For EUV, positive drivers include the higher ASP of the 3800E, as well as
improving EUV service margins. For Deep UV, we expect product mix to have a negative impact
on margins in 2024. On our Installed Base business, we currently expect a similar gross margin as
2023, but a final impact will ultimately depend on the level of upgrades in 2024.
And finally, as we have said before, we expect significant costs in 2024 related to the introduction
of High NA and to the ramp of our capacity to 90 EUV, 600 deep UV levels that we have talked
about before. It will create pressure on the gross margin. When we assess the combined effects
of these different developments, we expect a slightly lower gross margin in 2024 compared to
2023.
We are still targeting our earlier communicated gross margin ambition of 54% to 56% by 2025.
This increase in gross margin will be driven by a number of items. First, higher sales volume both
in EUV and deep UV which improves fixed cost coverage. Second, a move to a higher margin EUV
0.33 NA system as the vast majority of systems in 2025 are planned to be 3800E systems. Third,
we expect reduced headwinds from capacity investments as we ramp volume including High NA.
Fourth, we will also be transitioning to a higher margin EUV High NA system, the 5200, in 2025.
Lastly, we expect our Installed Base business to have a positive impact on 2025 margins due to
both improved EUV service margins as well as increased upgrade business volume.
The expected R&D expenses for Q1 are around EUR1.07 billion and SG&A is expected to be
around EUR300 million. Our estimated 2024 annualized effective tax rate is expected to be
between 16% and 17%. In Q4, ASML paid the second quarterly interim dividend of EUR1.45 per
ordinary share. ASML intends to declare a total dividend for the year 2023 of EUR6.10 per
ordinary share. The third interim dividend of EUR1.45 per ordinary share will be made payable on
February 14, 2024. Recognizing this third interim dividend and the two interim dividends of
EUR1.45 per ordinary share paid in 2023, this leads to a final dividend proposal to the General
Meeting of EUR1.75 per ordinary share. In Q4 2023, no shares were repurchased.
With that, I would like to turn the call back over to Peter.
`Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Roger. As Roger has highlighted, we had another year of very strong growth in a very
challenging environment. We finished the year with a solid backlog of EUR39 billion. The
uncertainty remains in the market due to a number of global macro concerns while the
semiconductor industry is currently working through the bottom of the cycle.Our customers are still not certain on the shape or slope of the recovery this year, but there are
some positive signs in the indicators that we have been monitoring. Industry and market inventory
levels continue to improve, moving towards more healthy levels. Lithography tool utilization levels
are still running lower than normal, but are now improving in both Logic and Memory. We expect
utilization levels to continue to improve over the course of this year. And lastly, as mentioned by
Roger, we saw very strong order intake in the fourth quarter in support of future demand.
To be able to follow the curve of the industry recovery, we are looking at the combined demand
for 2024 and 2025. As mentioned last quarter, we view 2024 as a transition year in preparation
for the expected strong demand in 2025. We, therefore, continue to make investment this year,
both in capacity ramp and in technology to be ready for the upturn in the cycle. While we see
some positive signs of recovery, we feel it might be a bit too early to change our, perhaps,
conservative view as communicated last quarter, and therefore still stay with our previously
communicated expectation of 2024 revenue to be similar to 2023.
Looking at the market segments, customers are indicating they are seeing healthy growth this
year, primarily driven by AI-related demand for both logic and memory, but also expected from
other end markets as inventory levels improve. And coming off a very strong year in 2023, with
60% growth in logic revenue, we expect some pause in demand as customers digest the
capacity additions and while utilization levels improve.
Based on current demand, we see lower logic revenue in 2024 versus 2023. For memory,
inventories are approaching normal levels and customers are expecting to see demand growth
on a number of end markets this year. Litho demand is primarily driven by DRAM technology node
transitions in support of advanced memory, such as DDR5, and HBM in support of AI-related
demand. We currently see revenue growth in our 2024 Memory business versus 2023.
Turning to our businesses for EUV, we are expecting revenue growth in 2024, and we are
planning to recognize revenue on a similar number of EUV Low NA systems as 2023, which
includes the fast shipments from 2023. Although we plan a similar number of systems as 2023,
we will have higher ASPs from the NXE:3800E systems, more weighted towards the second half
of the year. In addition, we expect revenue from one or two High NA systems. Based on the
aforementioned, we expect our non-EUV business to be down in 2024, primarily driven by lower
immersion sales relative to 2023.
For Installed Base business, based on our view today, we expect a similar level of revenue
compared to last year. As the recovery becomes more clear this year, customers may likely look
to upgrade their systems in preparation for 2025, and this could provide future business
opportunity this year. As a reflection of the current state of the industry coming out of a
downturn, and an expected recovery over the course of 2024, we expect a stronger second half
relative to the first half of this year.
On the geopolitical front, as communicated earlier, we do not expect to get export licenses for
our most advanced immersion systems, the NXT:2000 and up, for China in 2024. We have been
in contact with the US government on their export control regulations announced in October last
year, and we can confirm the estimated financial impact as communicated in October. At that
time, we stated the impact of the Dutch and the US export control regulations combined is 10%
to 15% of our 2023 China system revenue. This impact is based on our presumption that as of
2024 we will not obtain export licenses for NXT:2000 and up immersion systems to Chinese
customers, and in the case of only a handful of Chinese fabs, this also includes NXT:1970 and
1980 systems.While the export regulations had an impact on our business, we continue to see strong demand
for mid-critical and mature nodes in China. Looking longer term, while there are still significant
uncertainties, primarily driven by the macro environment, it appears we are passing through the
bottom of this specific cycle and expect an industry recovery over the course of 2024.
Based on discussion with our customers and supported by our strong backlog, we currently
expect 2025 to be a strong year driven by a number of factors. First, the secular growth drivers in
the semiconductor and markets which we have previously discussed such as energy transition,
electrification and AI. The expanding application space along with increasing lithography on future
technology nodes drives demand for both advanced and mature nodes. Second, the industry
expects to be in the middle of a cyclical upturn in 2025. And last, as mentioned earlier, we need
to prepare for a significant number of new fabs that are being built across the globe, in some
instances clearly supported by several government incentive plans. These fabs are spread
geographically, are strategic for our customers and are scheduled to take our tools.
It is essential that we keep our focus on the future and build capacity in preparation for further
long-term growth as we discussed in the market scenarios for 2025 and 2030 during our Investor
Day in November 2022. We plan to update our view during our Investor Day this year on
November 14, 2024.
In summary, although there are still near-term uncertainties with a positive outlook trend, we
clearly remain confident in our long-term growth opportunity. And with that, we'd be happy to
take your questions.
`Skip Miller, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Roger and Peter. The operator will instruct you momentarily on the protocol for the
Q&A session. I'd like to ask that you kindly limit yourself to one question with one short follow-up
if necessary. This will allow us to get to as many callers as possible. Now, operator, could we have
your final instructions and then the first question please.
Questions And Answers
A - `Skip Miller, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Roger and Peter. The operator will instruct you momentarily on the protocol for the
Q&A session. I'd like to ask that you kindly limit yourself to one question with one short follow-up,
if necessary. This will allow us to get to as many callers as possible. Now, operator, can we have
your final instructions and then the first question, please?
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) And the first question comes from the line of `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna
from Susquehanna. Please go ahead.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna `
Yes, thank you. Two follow-ups. Peter, you're talking about your view on '24 is still cautious, but
you could always change it as the year progresses. Can you share with us, the puts and takes,
what are the key areas that could actually give you confidence and help drive upside? And I have
a follow-up.
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `Yeah. Okay. Yeah, I think, in the prepared remarks, I already alluded to it. I think we will see -- we
are seeing the first signs, the positive signs of a recovery, which is basically the data we get on
inventory levels, but also we see our utilization rates going up again. That, and also in the history,
not only of the company, but of the industry means that if we're in a recovery cycle, you will see
that continuing throughout the year, which means that 2025 could be the first full year of the
recovery.
Now, having said that, to assess the slope of the recovery, we take a bit of a conservative view.
That could of course change. So if the slope of the recovery is a bit faster than we think, then
some of that 2025 business, which we're preparing, by the way, to ship or at least to build in
2024, could actually be shipped in 2024. Now, I don't think it's going to be in the first half. But
some of that, if you talk about key areas of potentially improvement, that could be an area
seeing some pull in for system shipments into 2024, one.
Two, I think when that happens, customers see it happening, but they also see that they might
have some time to take advantage of the time before full utilization and do upgrades and
actually Install Base business, which is generally high margin business. I think those are I think the
two main areas where we see upside, potential upside for 2024.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna `
Okay, so it's not really driven by any particular end market or application, this could be just a
broad base recovery that could give confidence to a customer and there will be some pull-ins,
right?
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, that's always the case. I mean, you could argue, I mean, we've seen the focus on AI in the
memory space. Now, clearly that could happen. But I think it's generally the end markets that are
reflective of where the recovery will take us in 2024. That will actually drive higher utilization of our
tools and will mean pull-in of those machines because customers don't want to miss the market
out there. I think it's all a bit of the same, because the end markets ultimately will have to drive
the recovery. And I think AI is now particularly something which could be on top of that, because
that's clearly a technology transition. We've already seen a very positive effect of that in our Q4
order intake.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna `
Okay, if I may ask my follow-up, in the last capital market that you highlighted how DRAM could
account for 30% of your EUV shipment in '25. How does that transition look like? Maybe you can
share with us the DRAM mix of EUV shipment in '23 and how does the '24 look like as we focus
on a 30% target mix for '25?
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, in 2023, our memory shipments were lower than the 30% that you mentioned, but if we
look at '25 and we also take into account what I just said about AI and the need for EUV in the
DDR5 and in the HBM era, then the 30% is a very safe bet and could be on the conservative side.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna `
Thank you.Thank you. We will now go to the next question. And your next question comes from the line of
`Joe Quatrochi, Analyst, Wells Fargo from Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.
Q - `Joe Quatrochi, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Yeah, thanks for taking the question. I know you reported the orders for both Low NA and High
NA this quarter, but can you help us just kind of quantify that mix in the orders this quarter? I
imagine that the High NA orders that you're receiving now are for deliveries that are beyond
2025 at this point.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, Joe, as you know, we never disclose High NA orders and we do it for a good reason. I've
said it before. The world is very small and High NA orders are something that is competitively
sensitive for our customers, so that's why customers want us to be specific on High NA. I think it is
fair to say that if you look at the EUR5.6 billion of order intake for EUV that we recorded in Q4,
obviously the high share of that is in Low NA. That should be very clear.
In terms of overall orders that we have for High NA, I think a couple of quarters ago we said it's
now double digit. I think since then we had a few quarters where we added a couple, so I think
that's what we're looking at. But the lion's share of the order intake in the quarter really was
obviously for Low NA.
Q - `Joe Quatrochi, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Got it. That's helpful. And then just as a follow-up, can you give us the put some takes on free
cash flow this quarter? I would have, I guess, thought that it might have been a bit higher given
the record level of EUV orders and the associated partial down payments that are related to that.
So just any help you could give us on the free cash flow this quarter?
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, of course, down payments were helpful, right? So as a result of that, you did see that in the
second quarter, in the last quarter Q4, free cash flow was quite positive at EUR2.6 billion just for
the quarter, primarily driven, as you say, by downpayments. But it's also fair to see that we are in
ramping mode. We are preparing for a ramp in 2025, and that means we're taking in materials.
We're building inventory for High NA, et cetera, et cetera. So I think on the inventory position, you
would see that we're adding quite a bit. So that is obviously a negative, if you like, to the free
cash flow. But still, overall, I think the EUR2.6 billion that we recorded in the last quarter, I think,
was a healthy cash generation.
Q - `Joe Quatrochi, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Got it. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We'll now go to the next question. And your next question comes from the line of
`Stephane Houri, Analyst, ODDO BHF from ODDO BHF. Please go ahead.
Q - `Stephane Houri, Analyst, ODDO BHF `
Yes. Good afternoon. Thank you for taking my question. Actually, the question is about the 2025
acceleration. My feeling is that you sound a bit more comfortable on the fact that this strongacceleration is going to happen. And I remember you saying that you were targeting the middle
of the range. But at the same time, I am sure you didn't miss this one. Consensus has come down
really to the lower end of the guidance for 2025. So can you maybe tell us if you are still targeting
the middle of the range, at least? And what do you need to see in term of memory, recovery,
logic orders coming through 2024 to reassure on that? Thank you.
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, Stephane, yes, I mean, we feel a bit more comfortable on 2025 after having received the
EUR9.2 billion of orders, which especially in the EUV domain, it's focused on 2025. So I think you
get a vote of confidence from our customers on what we thought was going to happen, which is
always good. When you talk about the middle of the range, I said, my comment was that I
thought the lower end of the range was too conservative. That's what I said. You can make it the
middle of the range or the high end of the range. It's your choice.
But I'm not going to comment on that because that would give me, in January 2024, the 24th of
January, give you an outlook or as of give you guidance on 2025. I mean, it might be a bit early.
So -- but I do feel directionally that that's what. I said, the lower end I thought was too
conservative because we do believe that 2025 is going to be a very strong year. Well, no, the
order intake actually gives us at least some level of confidence that that statement at that time
was actually quite good. So I feel more comfortable. Yes, that's absolutely true.
Now, if the recovery in 2025 is indeed what we expect, yes, we should see a further order flow in
2024. Our lead time, order lead time is 12 to 18 months. So, yes, and that's what I also said last
time, if we're right on 2025, we need to see orders coming in in the first half of 2024. Now, we've
seen a significant batch of those orders already coming in in Q4 2023. So that just supports our
assumptions. So in that sense, to make a long story short, yes, I feel more comfortable I think with
me and our colleagues.
Q - `Stephane Houri, Analyst, ODDO BHF `
Okay, thank you. And regarding the memory market as a follow-up, is it really the start of the
recovery of investment in memory or is it just all that is related to AI, DDR5, HBM, or is it wider in
your view?
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I think, it's -- what we're seeing is, of course, the information coming off our tools that we
see the utilization rates going up. That's one. Clearly, there's also an element of technology
transition. That's also clear. I think there's a bottleneck in the AI in making use of the full AI
potential. DRAM is a bottleneck, the performance memory is a bottleneck. And there are
solutions, but they need a heck of a lot more HBM, and that's EUV. So it's a bit of a mix. I mean,
yes, you've gone through, I think, the bottom of this memory cycle with prices going up,
utilizations increasing, and that combined with the technology transition driven by AI. That's a bit
what we see today. Yeah, so it's a combination of both. And I think that will continue.
Q - `Stephane Houri, Analyst, ODDO BHF `
Good. Thank you, Peter.
Operator
Thank you. We will now go to the next question. And your next question comes from the line ofQ - `Sara Russo, Analyst, Bernstein `
Great. Thanks for taking my question. So you've said you're expecting strong demand from China
to continue in 2024. Is that expected to be sort of at the same level we've seen for the last few
quarters, where it's been exceptionally strong or is there some rebalancing you're expecting
across global demand expected for later in the year as we get towards that growth expectation
for 2025?
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Well, I mean, we're not going to be specific at the beginning of the year exactly on China, but I
think a few data points that we want to share with you. First off, as we also said in the video, we
do see the demand from China being very robust. Second, there is an impact, obviously, coming
out of the export controls, and Peter just gave you that impact, the 10% to 15%. So I think,
fundamentally, it's pretty clear that the China demand remains very strong. As we said before, it's
primarily driven towards mature and mid-critical nodes. I mean, that's what it's all for.
It's a bit too early to speculate exactly how the China demand is going to pan out, because that's
also dependent on how the demand for the rest of the world is going to pan out, because, as
you know from previous years, we have allocation questions, right? So for a number of tools,
we're still supply constrained, so there you have to determine where is the tool going, and that
will only be known once you have a complete picture of all the demand on a global basis. So
that's why it's too early to make specific predictions, is China going to be a bit up? Is it going to
be a bit down? But one thing is for sure, China will remain very strong in our numbers also in
2024.
Q - `Sara Russo, Analyst, Bernstein `
Great, that's really helpful. And maybe as a follow-up, I understand that because in 2024 you're
not expected to be capacity constrained, especially on the EUV side necessarily, are you -- if
you're going to be pre-building, are you anticipating incurring additional costs around potentially
holding those machines for any period of time, or are you expecting those orders to materialize
closer to when the machines would be ready, or are there any other -- is that sort of a drag on
margins for 2024 that you're factoring in?
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
No, I wouldn't say that the pre-building is going to be a drag on the gross margin, because as a
matter of fact, what you're pre-building this year, most of the material that you have for the pre-
building is already in, right? So I think from that vantage point, I think there is no big impact on
either the cash flow or the gross margin. Of course, the question is, do you pre-build? But then,
back to Peter's point, when Peter said what are the -- in response to the question of the puts and
takes from Mehdi on this year, of course, we currently look at pre-build. It could be that some of
those are pulled into 2024. So I would look at a pre-build more as an opportunity than as a threat
to the gross margin.
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah.
Q - `Sara Russo, Analyst, Bernstein `
Great, thank you very much.Operator
Thank you. We will now take the next question. And your next question comes from the line of
Francois Bouvignies from UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Francois-Xavier Bouvignies, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you very much. So the first question, I wanted to come back a bit to Stephane's question
on 2025. And you said, Peter, that you thought low-end was conservative for 2025. It was three
months ago when you had the 5 million EUV bookings. And as you know very well, and at least we
are very good at extrapolating trends, so we were very skeptical about these targets after 500
million of EUV bookings. Now, you come this quarter with, indeed, this huge booking number in
terms of EUV, which basically puts you in a much better position into 2025. And indeed, it's clearly
supporting your comments three months ago. But I would like to know, with this queue for orders,
we know that it's very lumpy. It's always moving from one quarter to another very significantly. To
what extent Q4 orders is a pull-in effect? In other words, do you see still healthy EUV activities? I
don't expect the EUR5.6 billion every quarter. I'm not saying that. But do you see already in Q1 the
activity of EUV fairly healthy and in Q2, or should we just expect Q4 as an exceptional and it will
take a significant pose? That's my first question.
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I think generally EUR9.2 billion is pretty exceptional because it was the highest order intake
forever. So that's you don't think -- you're right or would not expect to top that every quarter. No,
I think, yes, the analysts are very good at extrapolating trends. But I have to warn you that trends
in EUV order intake in our business with a few customers might be a very tricky thing to do to
actually try to extrapolate, which is actually proven by the order intake in Q3 and in Q4.
It's lumpy, as you said, and it has to do with a couple of things. I mean, in Q4 also clearly the -- as
a part of the EUV order intake had to do with the obvious technology transitions needed in the
DRAM space to support AI. That will continue. But I think overall in 2025, when we look at a
recovery of the cycle and have a full year recovery on top of that the new fabs. Yes, we need to
see a healthy order intake for EUV in the first half of this year of 2024 just like I said earlier, with 12
to 18 months order lead time, so that needs to happen. Yeah.
And I think this is what we need to see. And then I don't think that Q4, yes, it was exceptionally
high, it was a very good order intake, but for good reasons. It's basically moving the EUV orders
now into the 2025 delivery time frame. The orders that we're now getting is not for 2024, it's for
2025. So that will have to continue and in my mind will continue in the first half of 2024. So, yeah,
it may not be EUR9.2 billion again in Q1 2024, but, yes, in the first half, we need to see a healthy
further order intake and -- to support our 2025 view. Absolutely.
Q - `Francois-Xavier Bouvignies, Analyst, UBS `
Great, thank you. And maybe a follow-up to that is the memory migration. I mean, this quarter,
what is really outstanding is the split of memory within EUV, which is like 50%, I mean, roughly,
which is very high compared to history. So to support exactly the migration you are describing.
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Correct.
Q - `Francois-Xavier Bouvignies, Analyst, UBS `Now we know that the memory market is as low utilization rate right now as recovering, but still
fairly low. So I would assume, I mean, to which extent given the low utilization, they can migrate
more? It's many offline tools so they can migrate, spend a lot of time on it. And to which extent
education grows, they will put the brakes on the migration. Do you see what I mean? I mean, in
other words, should we expect the memory as investing significantly right now, but then will slow
down as the industry comes back? Or should we expect a fundamental line, growing line,
because you have a lot of wafers to migrate anyway, and therefore we won't see so much
lumpiness. Do you see what I mean?
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Not entirely, but I do believe that what is important to us, you look at these memory cycles, as this
game of chicken, it's also -- it's you build the capacity, there's always big step-ups. The underlying
growth pattern is also more regular. So you have these times where you have overcapacity. I think
this is part of it. Today we are going through this cycle. We just see the utilization rates of our
memory tools going up. I think EUV is always, in that sense, scarce. You don't buy loosely extra
EUV systems in our dynamic space. That's always going to be the gating item.
Now, if you then come to the conclusion that you need more EUV because DDR5 and HBM is
where the extra demand is, then there's not much to migrate. You just need more. So -- and I
think that's on the back of a cyclical recovery, because inventories are being consumed. So that
migration, having the space to do migration, or that I don't see that. It might be available in the
non-EUV space, but in the EUV space, that is actually this scarce tool, which you won't have
available in abundance, and that tool will be the first to be fully utilized.
So, I don't know whether it's answering your question, but it's just -- I'm just trying to think of what
you meant, or what the question meant. But I think the recovery in memory is cyclical, and on top
of that, I think we have the technology transition into DDR and into HBM. And that drives memory,
and I don't think it's going to be something that is very short-lived, i.e., one or two quarters. This
will continue.
Q - `Francois-Xavier Bouvignies, Analyst, UBS `
Great. Thank you, Peter.
Operator
Thank you. We will now go to our next question. And the next question comes from the line of
`Tammy Qiu, Analyst, Berenberg from Berenberg. Please go ahead.
Q - `Tammy Qiu, Analyst, Berenberg `
Hi, thank you for taking my question. So, first one is on High NA. So, there has been some
concerns relating to High NA EUV being too expensive to be used for things like 1.4 nanometer.
So, Peter, if you have any feedback on customers' current development process, I know it's still at
an early stage, but is High NA going to be the best option when you go to 1.4 nanometer?
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I think it's a good question, because we always need to answer or ask that question to
ourselves and to the customers, whether we feel that the next generation lithography tool is
economic for our customers. As you know, Moore's Law is an empirical law of economics. Now,
having said that, there is no doubt in my mind now that the High NA use of all our customers thatare using EUV is the right choice from an economic point of view. We get that corroborated now
very clearly to our customer contacts. Yeah.
That used to be a question some time ago, but I think everything that we're currently seeing, and
also looking at alternative patterns of multi-patterning How NA EUV, High NA is very clearly the
most cost-effective solution. I think that is also driven by the answer that Roger gave, that he said,
we've had -- he said last year, we have double-digit orders in the order book, and he said, every
quarter, we comfortably add a couple of those. Customers give us those orders because they do
those calculations and they see this. So, yes, I can understand the question. I think our confidence
that it's the most cost-effective solution, both in memory and logic. Logic and memory has only
gone up.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
I think the commitment of customers is not just visible in the orders, but for instance also, as you
saw, one of our customers has entered into a joint research center, which is really focused on this
and on the utilization of High NA. So, I think that's another very strong underpinning of the fact
that customers do believe that this is an important way forward.
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Absolutely. And I think the fact that our launching customer of High NA was very happy that we
were shipping on time and the pressure that they rightfully put on us was also felt throughout our
entire organization. We have to be on time because this is the tool that they need.
Q - `Tammy Qiu, Analyst, Berenberg `
Amazing. Thank you. And also, a follow-up regarding the memory adoption of High NA. So, my
understanding is that memory will be on Low NA EUV for a few years. How would you view this
High NA adoption timeline for memory versus 3D DRAM?
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Versus 3D DRAM? Well...
Q - `Tammy Qiu, Analyst, Berenberg `
Yes, I mean, which one -- which will come first?
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I don't think that's a question. I think High NA will be introduced way before 3D DRAM. So it will
just be introduced, and I think it will be introduced in about the same timeframe as logic. So it's
not a competing technology in that sense, from a timing point of view.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
And that's also clear in the order intake. So in the order intake that we see for high NA, we
equally see memory orders for high NA as we see logic orders. So I think that is -- it is clear that
customers are looking at the same timeframe for the introduction of High NA, both into logic and
into memory.
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `Q - `Tammy Qiu, Analyst, Berenberg `
Amazing. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We will now go to the next question. And your next question comes from the line of
`Didier Scemama, Analyst, Bank of America from Bank of America. Please go ahead.
Q - `Didier Scemama, Analyst, Bank of America `
Yes. Thank you. It's Didier from Bank of America. Thanks for taking my question. My first question,
Peter, when we see this big wave of AI orders coming from the memory vendors and coming
from foundries, I just wonder, related to your point earlier that HBM and DDR5 could drive an
upside to that 30% contribution to EUV volumes in 2025. Do you think there is upside to your
potential demand capacity limit? You've got like 75, 80 units from HBM first or from others.
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
That's a very good question. That's something that we need to consider very carefully. We've
said, our capacity build-out will be 90 EUV Low NA systems, 20 High NA, whereby internally we
are looking at that number as a kind of a base number where we're investigating whether that
number should be higher. The question is whether 90 is going to be enough. Now, you have to
realize we are selling wafer capacity, which is not only a function of the number of units, but also a
function of the productivity of those tools.
Now, we have a pretty aggressive roadmap for the productivity in terms of wafers per hour. Now,
so it's a complex question that you're asking, but actually we need to look at this, especially
against the math that we're seeing for litho requirements in the area of AI, whether it's HBM or
whether it is logic, whether the number of units and the roadmap on productivity, which gives
wafers, because the combination is wafer capacity, whether that is sufficient. That is a constant
thing we need to look at, and it's going to be something that I think is going to be very central
when we do our Capital Markets Day by the end of the year. I think we're going to give you -- that
also gives us a bit of time to actually engage with our customers to really understand those
requirements and translate that into units and productivity. So, good question, Didier, but I have
to refer to the Capital Markets Day by the end of the year where we're going to be a bit more
detailed, but this is exactly what we're now looking at.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Because, Didier, it's also pretty clear that this is not a '24, '25, or '26 question, right? This is longer
term, and in that context, we absolutely, to Peter's point, we need to look at rather ramifications
of AI, but they really are long-term and therefore will be addressed in our 2030 scenarios at the
end of the year.
Q - `Didier Scemama, Analyst, Bank of America `
Super, thanks very much. Maybe my follow-up is a follow-up to Tammy's question. I'm going to be
-- so on the High NA system bookings that you had this quarter, can you say whether you had
more than one customer placing orders or not?
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
But not in the quarter, to be...
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
No, not in the quarter, because that would be a lot more.
Q - `Didier Scemama, Analyst, Bank of America `
We know all of them have placed orders in the double-digit units you talked about. I just wonder
whether, because you made the point, Peter, that now you know from your customers' test that
High NA is more economical than Low NA, and you know there were some bloggers out there,
people who talk a lot who said that High NA is not economical, and so I just wonder whether you
could break that bear case once and for all.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, but, Didier, I made it very clear earlier in the call why it is that we are not being very detailed
on our comments on High NA. And I think for that precise reason, we're not going to give the
color and context that you're looking for.
Q - `Didier Scemama, Analyst, Bank of America `
I love it.
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
It's very simple. Well, Didier, it's only a few tools, and as a customer, you know whether you did
place your order or you didn't. So there you actually make that very simple game, and then we
get all these questions, and our sales force is already under pressure. And we don't want to put
more pressure on these guys than necessary.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
But you got an A for effort, Didier, for sure.
Q - `Didier Scemama, Analyst, Bank of America `
I appreciate it. Thank you so much. And Peter, I hope, do we hear you on the next earnings call, or
is that your last earnings call?
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, no, I think I will definitely be there. Whether I will talk a lot, I don't know, but you will hear me.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
I think you will, Didier.
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
But you will hear me laughing at some answers, but that's no -- no, just kidding.
Q - `Didier Scemama, Analyst, Bank of America `No, it's going to be fun for you.
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, it's just going to be fun for me. Yeah. No, I will definitely be there. But I think Christophe and
Roger and myself will definitely do that. But I'm pretty sure that you want to hear Christophe also
giving his view on what lies ahead.
Q - `Didier Scemama, Analyst, Bank of America `
Perfect. Thank you. Thank you very much, guys.
Operator
Thank you. We will now go to the next question. And the next question comes from the line of
`Andrew Gardiner, Analyst, Citi from Citi. Please go ahead.
Q - `Andrew Gardiner, Analyst, Citi `
Good afternoon, guys. Thanks for taking the question. You've spoken a lot about the 2025
outlook around the state of the cycle and process node development. We haven't spoken as
much today on the sort of all of the new fabs that are being built around the world, so an
unprecedented level of activity. And there has been sort of various press at different points over
the last how many quarters about sort of delays and push-outs and some challenges, be it in
terms of labor force or CHIPS Act money, that kind of thing. I'm just wondering if you can give us
an update in terms of your -- from your point of view in speaking with the customers, have things
been moving around at all in terms of the key customers and their plans for these new fabs and
the tooling stores? Or is it pretty rock-solid from your point of view and therefore evident
perhaps in that EUR9 billion order number? Thank you.
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I think, a good question, Andrew. I think the longer-term, let's say, positions that customers
have taken are pretty rock-solid. I think they will happen. Now, the question is about timing, and
timing could be a function of the things that you just mentioned. I mean, is there enough capable
resources or are there enough capable resources, people, will permits and/or all the things that
are necessary, like energy and water will all be available on time. Those are, you could say, tactical
and operational considerations that are always there.
Now, we have examples where we have indeed delays because of the things that you just
mentioned. We also have examples where things are spot-on time. So it's really very dependent
on the specific situation of a specific fab. I think the intentions are very clear. We don't see any
delay there. We could see operational or delays that will push things back six months or nine
months, that could happen. But generally, those fabs are there. Those fabs are there in the US,
they're in Japan, they're in Taiwan, they're in Korea, they're in China, they're in Europe. I mean,
we don't see any indication or any customer messaging to us that those things won't happen.
Yes, there could be some regional issues. But we also have some good examples. I'll give you
Japan, for instance. Things will happen on the dot. So that will probably also like to happen in
Germany. So these are things that will happen. And in other areas, there might be more problems
with, like you mentioned it, water, energy, people, building restrictions and stuff like that. But
that's normal. That's our business.Understood. Thank you. And then just a quick mathematics clarification, if I could. Did you say
EUR38 billion or EUR39 billion worth of ending backlog?
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
EUR39 billion.
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
EUR39 billion.
Q - `Andrew Gardiner, Analyst, Citi `
EUR39 million. And so if we think of the guidance you guys have set for '24, so the total revenue
within that, that implies that you've got about sort of mid-teens or so already booked for 2025. Is
that a correct assumption?
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I think we're booking nicely into 2025. Now, which also means that we need to still book a lot for
the remainder of the year. But that's why we're still January 24. We still have some time to go. But
yes, we're booking nicely into 2025.
Q - `Andrew Gardiner, Analyst, Citi `
Thank you
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Especially for EUV.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
But when you say mid-teens, you do make the adjustment, obviously, for the Installed Base
business, right, Andrew?
Q - `Andrew Gardiner, Analyst, Citi `
Yes.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Okay. Because that obviously needs to be added. Then I get a bit higher than mid-teens. That's
okay.
Q - `Andrew Gardiner, Analyst, Citi `
Yeah.
Operator
Thank you. We will now go to the next question. And your next question comes from the line of
`CJ Muse, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald from Cantor Fitzgerald. Please go ahead.
Q - `CJ Muse, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald `Yeah, good afternoon. Thank you for taking the question. I guess first question focused on
memory. So, a couple parts here. Were you surprised that memory ended up 10% for you? And if
you think about the magnitude of the record orders in the December quarter, can you kind of
separate CXMP and Tuishou [ph] domestic China versus kind of the technology buys that you're
seeing out of Korea and the US?
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I think very easy answer. The technology buys are dominant. Yeah. So, and they're also very
much focused on the technology transition to EUV. And were we surprised? I must be -- I will say,
yes, to a certain extent we were surprised. In the meetings we've had with customers, and
especially the memory customers, the leading edge memory customers, we were surprised
about the technology requirements of -- for litho EUV specifically and how it impacts, how
important it is for the rollout and the ramp of the memory solutions for AI. This is why we received
more EUV orders than we anticipated, because it was obvious in the detailed discussions and the
reviews with our customers that EUV is critical in that sense. And that was a bit of a surprise, as a
positive surprise, but that's what we learned. So, yeah, a surprise, yes.
Q - `CJ Muse, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald `
So is that a function of -- sorry, was that a function of EUV layer count or perhaps where they're
repurposing equipment and so now they're realizing they need more footprint for EUV?
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
No. It is layer count and imaging performance and that's what led to the surprise, the positive
surprise, which immediately led to more orders.
Q - `Andrew Gardiner, Analyst, Citi `
Perfect. And just a quick follow up on High NA. Can you kind of update us on your planned
shipments and revenue for calendar '25 and how you expect to kind of shrink that timeframe
between shipping and revenuing? And as part of that number, how should we think about the
overlay of memory adoption into '25, '26, '27?
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So CJ, the revenue for '25, as you know, at a Capital Markets Day, we expect five systems
in revenue and that's still the way we look at it. There will be more shipments, but it's a bit too
early to say how exactly is the revenue recognition going to work. As you know, we just shipped
only the first modules of the first tool, so it's a bit early, but the five in revenue, that's still the way
we look at it.
In terms of the introduction of High NA into memory, I think that's consistent with what we had at
an earlier question. We do see the timeframe of memory and logic adoption more or less in sync,
so to us that is more or less the same timeframe.
Q - `CJ Muse, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Thanks so much.
Operator
Thank you.A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, so we have time for one last question. If you are unable to get through on this call and still
have questions, please feel free to contact the ASML Investor Relations Department with your
question. Now, operator, may we have the last caller, please?
Operator
Thank you. We will now take the last question and the question comes from the line of Sandeep
Deshpande from JP Morgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `Sandeep Deshpande, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Yeah, hi. Thanks for letting me on. I have a question to follow up somewhat on Didier's question. I
mean, there is this bear case on High NA EUV. I mean, when you look at your 2030 guidance, you
look at you guiding to about 20 high NA EUV tools, but when you looked at, if you remember,
when you had guided the initial ramp of EUV, you had talked about 50-plus tools. So is it that your
guidance on High NA EUV on 20 tools is a function of the throughput of the tool, or is it a function
on the adoption of the High NA EUV into lithography, into semiconductor production? Because
there is this emerging case of that ASML itself is not so bullish on the adoption of High NA EUV.
And I have a quick follow-up.
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, it is the latter. Yeah. It has nothing to do with the productivity of the tool, although we will
work on the productivity of the tool, which we always do, to help our customers get costs. But it's
basically the adoption of High NA litho because it's needed. It is needed when you look at the
customer roadmaps and the customer designs that's what they need from a cost point of view.
So, I don't know where the notion comes from that we at ASML are less bullish about High NA or
the adoption of High NA. That's not the case. I think, on the contrary, we've seen in the
interactions with our customers that all our customers now are convinced that High NA is a more
cost-effective solution as opposed to mobile patterning Low NA. So, yeah, I don't know how to
answer it differently.
Q - `Sandeep Deshpande, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Thanks, Peter. I mean, and then another quick follow-up. I mean, in terms of your optimism, I
mean, clearly memory orders were much stronger than we expected in Q4, but there is all these
new fabs which are going to be built over the next two, three years, and your customers would
have given you what you need to ship to those fabs really. But do you expect to sign up those
logic-related? I mean, clearly memory is going to ramp. You've talked about it earlier. But on the
logic side that those orders will be signed up in the next few quarters, for '25 and '26?
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, I think certainly for 2025. I think when we look at our large logic customers, there are still
some large customers that still need to order, yeah, so, for 2025. It still has to come. Yeah. Now,
of course, we're in discussions. This is clear. But, I mean, you could also say that some are not in
the order book that definitely need to be there if they want to have tools in 2025. So, yeah, this is
something that you will see over the next couple of quarters.
Q - `Sandeep Deshpande, Analyst, JP Morgan `So just to clarify, Peter, what I'm trying to understand is, you will get the orders in advance rather
than turns business orders that you sometimes recognize orders in the quarter, you ship, et
cetera, but you are demanding that these customers sign orders as such, really.
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. No, so let's be clear. I mean, we will get those orders before we start shipping. I mean,
that's clear. In the past, what we used to do, but now, yes, true some time ago, and that is the
advantage of being in this industry very long, so you have a good memory. And in the past, we
used to do this because we knew the customers were having -- actually opened the fab, the
pedestals were there, and we were still negotiating some terms and conditions, but it was largely
on Deep UV, which the tool price is, of course, lower.
Now, you won't do that when your tools are EUR200 million or even EUR350 million. I mean,
that's where the financial risk on both sides is a bit higher. So you want to get a little bit more
certainty. So that practice might still be true for some, let's say -- I wouldn't even call it cheaper
tools, calling it a $70 million or $80 million tool a cheap tool is a bit of an anomaly. But I mean --
but that's what happened that time, but I don't think with EUVs that's going to be the case.
Q - `Sandeep Deshpande, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Thank you so much, Peter.
A - `Peter Wennink, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, thanks.
A - `Skip Miller, Vice President, Investor Relations `
All right. Before we sign off, I'd like to remind you, and mentioned a few times today and also in
the video with Roger earlier, that our Investor Day is currently planned to be held in Veldhoven on
November 14 this year, and we hope you'll all be able to join us.
Now, on behalf of ASML, I'd like to thank you all for joining us today. Operator, if you could
formally conclude the call, I'd appreciate it. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. This concludes the ASML 2023 fourth quarter and full-year financial results conference
call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.