Y 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the ASML 2024 Fourth Quarter and Full-
Year Financial Results Conference Call on January 29th, 2025. At this time, all participants are in a
listen-only mode. After the speaker's introduction, there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to hand the conference call over to Mr. `Jim Kavanagh, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
`Jim Kavanagh, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you, operator. Welcome, everyone. This is `Jim Kavanagh, Vice President of Investor Relations, Vice President of Investor
Relations at ASML. Joining me today on the call are ASML's CEO, `Christophe Fouquet, President and Chief Executive Officer; and our
CFO, `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. The subject of today's call is ASML's fourth quarter and full-year results
2024. The length of this call will be 60 minutes and questions will be taken in the order that they
are received. This call is also being broadcast live over the Internet on www.asml.com. A transcript
of Management's opening remarks and a replay of the call will be available on our website shortly
following the conclusion of this call.
Before we begin, I would like to caution listeners that comments made by Management during
this conference call will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal
securities laws. These forward-looking statements involve material risks and uncertainties. For a
discussion of risk factors, I encourage you to review the Safe Harbor statements contained in
today's press release and presentation found on our website at www.asml.com, and in ASML's
annual report on Form 20-F and other documents as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.With that, I would like to turn the call over to `Christophe Fouquet, President and Chief Executive Officer for a brief introduction.
`Christophe Fouquet, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Jim. Welcome, everyone, and thank you for joining us for our fourth quarter and full
year 2024 results conference call. Before we begin the Q&A session, Roger and I would like to
provide an overview and some commentary on the fourth quarter and full year 2024 results, as
well as provide some additional comments on the current business environment and on our
future business outlook. Roger?
`Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Christophe, and welcome, everyone. I will first review the fourth quarter and full year
'24 financial accomplishments and then provide guidance on the first quarter of 2025. Let me
start with our fourth quarter accomplishments.
In the fourth quarter of 2024, total net sales were EUR9.3 billion which is above the high end of
our guidance primarily due to installed base revenue. As expected, it also includes revenue
recognition on two High NA systems. Net system sales were at EUR7.1 billion which includes
EUR2.9 billion from EUV sales and EUR4.2 billion from non-EUV sales. Net system sales was driven
by logic at 61% with the remaining 39% coming from memory. Installed Base Management sales
for the quarter were above guidance at EUR2.1 billion primarily driven by additional upgrade
business.
Gross margin for the quarter was above guidance at 51.7% due to a combination of additional
upgrade business, and lower-than-planned costs associated with the new product introduction of
High NA systems in the field. On operating expenses, R&D expenses came at EUR1.116 billion in
line with guidance, while SG&A expenses came in above guidance at EUR318 million due to year-
end payroll adjustments and a pull-in of IT costs. The effective tax rate for Q4 was 21.5% as a
result of a one-off tax expense related to a historic tax position, bringing the total year ETR to
18.6%. In 2025, we expect an annualized effective tax rate of around 17%. Net income in Q4 was
EUR2.7 billion, representing 29.1% of total net sales and resulting in an EPS of EUR6.85.
Turning to the balance sheet. We ended the fourth quarter with cash, cash equivalents, and short-
term investments at a level of EUR12.7 billion. We ended Q4 with a free cash flow of EUR8.839
billion, which is significantly higher relative to last quarter's with the majority of cash coming in at
the very end of the quarter.
Moving to the order book. Q4 net system bookings came in at EUR7.1 billion, which is made up of
EUR3 billion of EUV and EUR4.1 billion of non-EUV. Net system bookings in the quarter were driven
by logic with 61% of the bookings, with memory accounting for the remaining 39%.
At this point, I would like to briefly comment on the reporting of our bookings going forward. As
we have said in the past, our order flow on a quarterly basis can be lumpy and does not
necessarily reflect our business momentum accurately. Our sales guidance is primarily based on
regular reviews with all our customers as part of our planning cycle. With this in mind, we will
continue to report bookings on a quarterly basis through 2025 but will no longer report on
bookings thereafter. As of 2026, we will report the total systems backlog on an annual basis.
Looking at the full year, net sales came in at EUR28.3 billion with a gross margin of 51.3%. EUV
system sales realized from 44 systems including High NA, were EUR8.3 billion, 9% lower
compared to 2023. DUV system sales grew 4% to EUR12.8 billion. Our Metrology & Inspection
system sales increased 20% to EUR646 million.Looking at the market segments for 2024. Logic system revenue was EUR13.2 billion, 17% lower
than 2023. Memory system revenue was EUR8.6 billion, 44% higher than 2023, and Installed Base
Management sales were EUR6.5 billion, 16% higher than 2023. We concluded 2024 with a net
systems backlog of around EUR36 billion.
In 2024, we continued to invest in innovation across our full product portfolio, increasing R&D
spending to EUR4.3 billion in 2024, or about 15% of sales. SG&A increased to EUR1.2 billion in
2024, which was about 4% of sales. Net income for the full year was EUR7.6 billion, 26.8% of net
sales, resulting in an earnings per share of EUR19.25. In 2024, we generated free cash flow of
EUR9.1 billion. We returned EUR3 billion to shareholders through a combination of dividends and
share buybacks in 2024.
With that, I would like to turn to our expectations for the first quarter of 2025. We expect Q1 total
net sales to be between EUR7.5 billion and EUR8 billion. We expect our Q1 Installed Base
Management sales to be around EUR2.1 billion. Gross margin for Q1 is expected to be between
52% and 53%. This is primarily driven by a positive effect from no High NA revenue recognition in
the quarter, partly offset by lower immersion volume. The expected R&D expenses for Q1 are
around EUR1.14 billion and SG&A is expected to be around EUR290 million.
In Q4, ASML paid the second quarterly interim dividend over 2024 of EUR1.52 per ordinary share.
ASML intends to declare a total dividend for the year of 2024 of EUR6.4 per ordinary share. The
third interim dividend of EUR1.52 per ordinary share will be made payable on February 19th, 2025.
Recognizing this third interim dividend and the two interim dividends of EUR1.52 per ordinary
share paid in 2024, this leads to a final dividend proposal to the General Meeting of EUR1.84 per
ordinary share. In Q4 2024, no shares were purchased.
With that, I would like to turn the call back over to Christophe.
`Christophe Fouquet, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Roger. As Roger has highlighted, we finished 2024 with a strong quarter. We are
extremely thankful to the whole ASML team that worked very hard to realize these results. In
2024, we have also successfully achieved a number of technology milestones including the
release of a number of new products critical for our customer technology roadmaps.
On our Low NA EUV technology, the NXE:3800E, we demonstrated the full system specification
in our factory with 220 wafers per hour throughput as a new record overlay. We are on track to
deliver a new system at full specification and start upgrades for the system already at our
customer during the first half of 2025. We continue to work with our customer to drive the
maturation of the system to support their ramp to high-volume manufacturing.
On High NA EUV, we completed installation and customer acceptance on two systems in Q4.
Customers have now run over 10,000 wafers on High NA system and their feedback has been
very positive. They are seeing major performance benefit in imaging, overlay, and contrast which
also provides significant cost reduction opportunities for both Logic and DRAM processes. We
continue to work with our customers to define the exact insertion point for High NA in their
processes. We also shipped a third system in Q4 that is now undergoing install and qualification.
On Deep UV, we shipped the first NXT:870B, the latest generation KrF system capable of
throughput of over 400 wafers per hour, and the NXT:2150i, the latest generation immersion
Deep UV system capable of achieving throughput over 310 wafers per hour and overlay
performance of equal or less than 1 nanometer.Finally, in application, after close collaboration with multiple customers, we have successfully
completed the evaluation and recognized first revenue from a number of eSCAN 1100 multi
ebeam inspection systems. All in all, our product pipeline is pretty strong, supporting the
roadmap requirements of our customers and driving our overall competitiveness. We will share
more performance data at the SPIE lithography conference in February.
Looking to 2025, we see full year revenue between EUR30 billion and EUR35 billion and gross
margin between 51% and 53%. Consistent with our view from last quarter, artificial intelligence
has become the key driver for growth in our industry at this moment. As we have witnessed in
2024, AI has created a shift in the market dynamics that is not benefiting all customers equally in
the short term.
If AI demand continues to be strong and customers are successful in bringing on additional
capacity online to support that demand, there is a potential opportunity towards the upper end
of our range. On the other hand, there are also risks related to customers and geopolitics that
could drive results towards the lower end of the range.
Looking at market segments, we currently expect logic to be up versus 2024 with the ramp of
leading-edge nodes while we expect memory to remain strong similar to 2024. With respect to
our Installed Base business, we expect revenue to grow versus 2024 driven by both service and
upgrades as part of a growing installed base to which EUV contribution is continuing to grow.
Our China business in 2023 and 2024 was relatively high because of our ability to execute on the
backlog that was created after low order fill rates in previous years. For 2025 and beyond, we
expect our China business to go back to a more normalized percentage of our sales.
Looking longer term, overall the semiconductor market remains strong with artificial intelligence
creating growth but also a shift in market dynamics as I highlighted earlier. These dynamics will
lead to a shift in the mix of end-market products towards more HPC and HBM which requires
more advanced logic and DRAM. For ASML, we anticipate that an increased number of critical
lithography exposure for these advanced logic and memory processes will drive increasing
demand for ASML products and services. As a result, we see a 2030 revenue opportunity
between EUR44 billion and EUR60 billion with gross margin expected between 56% and 66% as
we presented in the Investor Day 2024.
With that, we would be happy to take your questions.
`Jim Kavanagh, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Roger and Christophe. The operator will now instruct you all momentarily on the
protocol for the Q&A session. Before, I would like to ask you to kindly limit yourself to one
question with one short follow-up if necessary. This will allow us to get through as many callers as
possible.
Now, operator, could we have your final instructions and then the first question, please?
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We'll now go to the first question. One moment, please. And
the first question comes from the line of `Joe Quatrochi, Analyst, Wells Fargo from Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.
Q - `Joe Quatrochi, Analyst, Wells Fargo `Yes, thanks for taking the question. I had a question on your 2025 outlook. You mentioned that if
customers are able to build a capacity for AI, then you think you can hit the high end of your
revenue guide. How do we think about that relative to your lead times? I know you've pre-built
some EUV tools, but shouldn't we have a pretty decent idea kind of in the first half of this year if
that high-end as a target guide is possible?
A - `Christophe Fouquet, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I think as we go into the year, I think that we'll have indeed more visibility on what the final
expectation is going to be. I think right now we are in our supply plan, taking into account some of
the upside we see, so we are preparing for that. And I think you're getting it right. As time goes
and these opportunities become more concrete or less concrete, we will decide to build or not
build those tools.
Q - `Joe Quatrochi, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Okay, that's helpful. And then in terms of the gross margin dynamics, the cost of High NA installs
this past quarter was a bit lower than expected. As we look in the second half and you talked
about gross margin maybe being a little bit higher in the first half, how do we think about the
expectations of just the cost of installing those tools in the first half relative to the kind of
outperformance that you saw this past quarter? Is there any kind of update there?
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, Joe. So, indeed, the costs were a little bit lower in the last quarter. But in coming up with our
projections for 2025, I would say that those learnings are also embedded in there. So, we are
recognizing in 2025 that we have lower costs. So, I would still see that as a one-off benefit to the
quarter. I wouldn't necessarily read into that that we're going to have significant savings that were
not recognized when we provided the 51% to 53% guidance. But you are right, in the second half,
we did say that we expect the gross margin to be a little bit lower because the revenue
recognition on High NA is going to be skewed towards the second half.
Q - `Joe Quatrochi, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Tammy Qiu, Analyst, Berenberg from Berenberg. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Tammy Qiu, Analyst, Berenberg `
Hi. Thank you for taking my question. So, firstly, on High NA, since CMD, you have been
mentioning that the progress at customers has been ahead of where you were expecting. So,
currently, of course, you are negotiating within the time frame, etc. But can you comment if there
is any potential for them to use it quicker because that helps them saving in their cost of
manufacturing?
A - `Christophe Fouquet, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, Tammy, this is Christophe. So, I think that there's a few conditions for customers to use a
new tool like High NA. The first one is the one you repeated, which is the performance has to be
attractive, has to be good. I think that's the most probably one requirement we check at this pointof time. The second one is going to be the maturity of the platform. And there, as you know, we
typically try to ship a few early tools. These are our 5000s so that we can start to work
aggressively on maturity.
We are going to start shipping the 5200, which is a tool more fit to high volume manufacturing.
And then we'll have to spend a bit of time to demonstrate that the maturity is such that
customers are comfortable to use it in production. So, that process typically takes 12, 18 months,
depends a bit on where we start with the tool. And the discussion is a discussion we have, I would
say, on a regular basis because, again, depending on the progress, of course, the appetite to
move faster or slower is going to be adjusted.
Q - `Tammy Qiu, Analyst, Berenberg `
Okay. Okay, thank you. I guess I'll circle back in 12 months time. And also, just in terms of China.
So, China, I noticed that they have been kind of pulling in some of the orders, maybe because of
the pending US restriction, which is supposed to be implemented quite soon. I'm in a new wave.
Do you actually see your customer pulling in their order? As a result, do you see China order
decline quicker in the coming months because of everything has been pulled in?
And also, I know that you mentioned in the pre-recorded video that China expectation on US has
been falling into expectation. So, do you think there is potential for China to have some downside
or upside in this year as you have everything clear to you versus three months ago?
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
I think, to be honest, our view on China hasn't really changed in comparison to when we last
spoke, right? So, when we last spoke, we said the key dynamic on China is that -- and why China
was so very strong in 2023 and 2024 now, this was, for a number of years, we have been building
up a very significant backlog because of all the fill rates for China was so low.
That is the reason why the China sales in 2023 and 2024 was so high. And that is also the reason
now that around this point in time where we have eaten significantly into that backlog, we say that
backlog is being normalized. And that also means that we believe that the sales to China will be a
more normalized percentage.
And as we said, we think that is a low 20% number that China will represent in 2025 in our total
sales numbers. So, that is what is going on. The order intake that we received from China in the
fourth quarter, I would call it healthy, but it's not an order intake that is in any way dramatic or
skewed or whatever.
That's not the case. It is, again, a relatively normal order intake for China. And therefore, I think
the expectation that we articulated last time, China to be a more normalized percentage of our
sales, I think that's what you will see in 2025 and frankly beyond.
Q - `Tammy Qiu, Analyst, Berenberg `
Thank you.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
You're, welcome.
OperatorThank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Sara Russo, Analyst, Bernstein from Bernstein. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Sara Russo, Analyst, Bernstein `
Thank you very much for taking my question. So, we've had quite a few conversations around
your decision to phase out bookings information. And as we understand, it only provided backlog
view annually. Can you talk us through the decision to do that? And I guess, what are you
expecting to be the reaction from investors? And is this a response to the increased focus you've
been seeing on bookings that seems to be taking place over the last 12 to 18 months?
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
I think we explained it in the video. And just to recap where we are, the way we come up with our
annual guidance is really based on the review process that we have with our customers. We have
ongoing dialogues with our customers. And based on that, that gives us the insight into their
business and that gives us the basis to then articulate at the start of the year what we think the
total sales level for the year is going to be.
As you've seen in previous quarters, and as we have highlighted multiple times, order intake can
be very lumpy. And that is because the total size of the orders per customer are pretty significant.
Given the tool prices for High NA tools, for Low NA tools, which, as you know, are pretty
substantive. If orders -- if customers take a number of tools, which they typically do, you get to
very, very high numbers. And that means that if you have a few large customers that place an
order in one quarter, they typically wouldn't do it in one quarter and then get another massive
order intake in the quarter thereafter.
So, as a result of that, you see sometimes very high order intake in one quarter and then lower
order intake in other quarters. That does not necessarily reflect the business momentum that we
enjoy. And that's why we think that the market is better off with us having a robust discussion and
a robust -- robustly underpinned guidance that we provide at the beginning of the year. We think
that is more meaningful than these swings in the order pattern that you've seen before.
If you look at the past quarters, you do see that the market looks at these orders and sometimes
the reactions, both in terms of positive and in terms of negative order intake, the reactions can
be quite significant. And that has been the reason that we say we have been telling the market
that order intake is lumpy. We have been saying that it doesn't necessarily reflect the business
momentum accurately, but we do see very significant market response to it. And as a result of
that, we have reached the conclusion that maybe the market is better off with what I just gave
you, including an annual update of the backlog. So, from that regard, we came to the conclusion
that less is actually more.
This is something that we discussed with quite a few of you. When we had the Investor Day, we
discussed this quite extensively with many investors. And the conversations that we had there
gave the confidence to Christophe, myself, and the full team that the decision that we just took is
the right decision for the Company and for its stakeholders.
Q - `Sara Russo, Analyst, Bernstein `
Great. Really appreciate the additional context there. And then maybe just a quick follow-up. One
of the pieces of guidance that you were talking about in the last set of results was, you were
probably at the bottom end for EUV bookings to see the low end of guidance. And since you've
had a very strong quarter of bookings now, EUR3 billion of EUV, are you sort of more confident inthe midpoint of guidance or are you starting to see 2026 EUV orders come through as well, given
the typical 18-month lead time?
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, what we said last time is indeed that we needed about EUR2 billion of EUV orders to get
covered for EUV on the midpoint of 2025. So, with the EUR3 billion that we have in there, we've
reached that point. So, it's clear that we're either starting to build on '26 or we're starting to build
into the higher end of the guidance.
But that really is the timing -- is really that timing question that is dependent on it. But you are
right, we said we need to get EUR2 billion order intake for EUV. And the fact that we have been
recording EUR3 billion gives us, I would say, a good confidence on the EUV part on the midpoint.
On DUV, we're not yet fully covered, but I think the coverage there is quite high for the midpoint
of the guidance as well. But as also Christophe mentioned, of course, there are always timing
issues and customers always have the ability during a year to either pull in or push out from the
last quarter.
Q - `Sara Russo, Analyst, Bernstein `
Great. Thank you very much.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Welcome.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Francois Bouvignies from UBS. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Francois-Xavier Bouvignies, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you very much. My first question is, you see a strong demand for EUV logic driven by AI,
Christophe, you mentioned in your video, presumably mainly from one large customer. How do
you think about the capacity of 2 nano given it's going to be potentially a very significant node,
could we see a front-loaded capacity build in a way that '25 will be a big build to prepare for '26?
So, in other words, I mean, how do you think about the phasing of this strong node as first year
could be bigger, and then you add on a bit less in 2027? Or is it going to be a really a granular
build-up?
A - `Christophe Fouquet, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I think first of all, as you know, we don't have the details of our customer ramp fully. I think
we don't see any strange pattern in the ramps. I think we shared in the past, the ramp is definitely
starting in '25, will extend into '26, most probably into 2027 in fact, with potentially a mix of 2
nanometer and, and some nodes. That's what we see. So, no -- a normal pattern.
The other thing we mentioned in our commentary is, we see that maybe there is an opportunity
to ramp a bit faster if the demand remains strong. So, I think that's another discussion we're
having with the advanced logic customer, but I think we don't see any kind of pattern that you
described.A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
And Francois, this was actually also confirmed by C. C. Wei on the call that they had. So, he made
specific comments on the ramp profile of N2. So, you might want to refer to that as well. That was
(multiple speakers)
Q - `Francois-Xavier Bouvignies, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you. Clear. I was wondering, well, on the Lito maybe, given the lead times, but I mean
that's totally fair, thank you for that. On the second question is, I mean, AI is very strong, although
I mean, the market might have some doubts in the recent days. I'm not going to ask you the
impact of DeepSeek on the demand for AI. But you described some upside on the AI potential if
we get the capacity in the second half or if the demand still remains strong.
But similarly, I mean, if you look at the iPhone, which -- or Apple or iPhone, which supposedly is a
very significant part of your demand on the leading edge nodes. Do you think it's -- AI is big
enough to offset some downside in the -- if we see downside on the iPhone, at least in the short
term? Because in the long term, you described at your CMD that it's neutralizing. But I was more
wondering in the short term, so '25, '26, is the dynamic of high AI and slower smartphones?
A - `Christophe Fouquet, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I think in the short term, I think that we try to explain also with the upsides. I think that the
demand is strong to really drive, I would say, the utilization of whatever capacity would be built
initially on advanced logic. I think, by the way, this will not be fully or so mostly dedicated to AI. So,
I think, yes, the rest of the market is not doing spectacular, but it's still there.
I think that I would also refer to the TSMC call where they were reporting also for the first time to
some recovery on mobile. So, I think nothing is spectacular there. But as you go for the ramp, and
you know that the ramp will build up capacity over time, and so you don't get the peak capacity
before quite a bit. I think we -- we think this part is solid at this point of time. So, we see more
upside than risk, at least with all the elements we have at hand.
Q - `Francois-Xavier Bouvignies, Analyst, UBS `
Great. Thank you very much.
A - `Christophe Fouquet, President and Chief Executive Officer `
You're welcome.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Krish Sankar, Analyst, TD Cowen from TD Cowen. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Analyst, TD Cowen `
Yes, thanks for taking my question. Christophe and Roger, the first question on the decline in
China sales from 47% in September to 27% in December. Is that all a function of digestion by
Chinese customers? Since I'm assuming that the incremental export control rules did not impact
you last quarter. So, I'm curious, when do you expect this digestion to probably like meet a steady
state or like bottom out?A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, I think, Krish, we were already signaling in Q3, I think that this trend might happen. And I
repeat what I just said on China. I think this is the main reason why we're looking at a normalized
percentage for China is the reason that I gave before. So, yes, export controls are a part of that.
But the lion's share of the reason for the normalization of the demand is what I said earlier, which
is that the eating into the backlog that was built up all the way through '22 is now coming to an
end. And now we're really seeing a normalized pattern.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Analyst, TD Cowen `
Got it. Got it. And then a question on memory, you kind of said that this year logic would be up
but memory kind of flattish. On the memory front, you're more exposed to DRAM than NAND.
And you keep hearing about HBM capacity increase, but it seems like you're not seeing better
DRAM dynamics this year. Can you just tell us a little bit about what you're seeing in the memory
ecosystem?
A - `Christophe Fouquet, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I think you almost summarized it in your question. I think that high bandwidth memory is
driving today, I would say also an aggressive capacity addition, at least for some of the
customers. I think on the normal DRAM, I would say my comment is similar to the one on mobile
topology before. I think there was nothing spectacular, but there's some recovery, which was a
call for more capacity. So, that's why we still see DRAM pretty strong in 2025.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Analyst, TD Cowen `
Got it. Thanks, Roger.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Chris Caso, Analyst, Wolfe Research from Wolfe Research. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Chris Caso, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Yes, thank you. Good morning. I guess, as I listened to you this morning, it sounds like a situation
perhaps similar to how you started out last year. And correct me if I'm wrong, with some pretty
good backlog coverage to start the year. And last year, there were some changes in that backlog
in the middle of the year. So, I understand your prudence.
I guess, one, is that accurate depiction of what we're seeing here? And then secondly, what are
the sort of plausible things that we should be watching for and concerned about that would justify
the back -- the lower end of guidance? Is it export control restrictions? Is it China? Is it perhaps
some of the concerns about AI? What are some of the scenarios which would sort of point you to
the lower end?
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Chris, let me take the first part, and then Christophe can look at the second part. I'm not entirely
sure I follow your logic on that we are today where we were a year ago. And also, I would point
out that a year ago, we gave the guidance that I think we pretty much nailed during the year,
right? So, I think we delivered last year on exactly on the guidance that we provided in the year.The reason why I think the situation is also not comparable is because last year, we started the
year saying we think this year will be comparable to 2023. I think this year, we start the year with a
clear growth perspective at the midpoint, somewhere around 15%. So, I don't think the situation is
similar. Yes, we have a strong backlog. Yes, we had a strong order intake in the last quarter. But I
think Christophe discussed it on the call, and he will provide the color and context. Now, we see a
clear path within that guidance.
Maybe you can provide the color.
A - `Christophe Fouquet, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, and I think on the lower end, I think even Roger mentioned it already. I mean, we have seen
last year, this was one of the lowlights of Q3, we've seen major push out of some of the capacity
for some of the customers. I think through our guidance this year, we see that this risk is a lot
lower in terms of volume.
But I think Roger said it, that's always possible. So, I think we are very transparent. And we share
with you the fact that if we look at the total dynamic, that some of those pushouts may not be
completely excluded. That's what define our range. So, I think that's not more than that, I would
say.
Geopolitics, we also mentioned that. It's even more difficult, of course, to quantify because we
just had a new export control being released. So, there's no expectation of anything on our side,
but this is also of experience, this call a bit for prudence on our side. So, that's a bit what we try to
reflect in the lower end of the guidance, not more than that.
Q - `Chris Caso, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Sure. That's very helpful context. Thank you. The inevitable kind of follow-on to that is how that
affects the view for '26. And given the lead times and the customer forecast, I imagine you have
some degree of visibility now, although it's very early. At this point, would you expect '26 to be a
growth year? And what are the variables that you're thinking about with regard to '26?
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, Chris, that's as much as we said. We are looking at '26 as a potential growth year for ASML.
That's how we look at it. But it is exactly as you said, it's way too early to provide any direction or
magnitude on that.
Q - `Chris Caso, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
That's great. Thank you.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
You're welcome.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Didier Scemama, Analyst, Bank of America from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Didier Scemama, Analyst, Bank of America `Yes, good afternoon, gentlemen. Thank you for taking my question. I wanted to go back to the
order intake in EUV and DUV. So, maybe first on DUV, can you maybe just help us understand how
much of the DUV orders was related to DUV capacity build for the non-critical layers, e.g. non-
China or any color you can give us? And I have a follow up on the EUV order breakup. Thank you.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, we typically don't disclose that, Didier, as you know. We don't break down between
customers or between regions. But a significant part of the DUV order intake for the quarter was
indeed related to larger customers and for larger customers for the non-critical layers, as you
mentioned it. But I'm not -- we're not putting a percentage on that.
Q - `Didier Scemama, Analyst, Bank of America `
Yes, perfect. That's good to hear that it's confirmed. On the EUV order intake, obviously largely
driven by Foundry logic, I think you said 50-50 perhaps earlier on. On the DRAM side and on the
Foundry side, any color you can give. So, obviously, on the Foundry side, you've got three major
customers. On the DRAM side, you've got three major customers. Can you just -- obviously you
can't discuss the various customers' sort of health, but is there any change with regards to
trajectory of the various buckets, e.g., is there any bucket looking a bit better? It looks like DRAM
is looking a bit better given the diversity of the customers in there, maybe Foundry not changing
very much, but would be much more interested in hearing your views.
A - `Christophe Fouquet, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I think we're looking at each other, but I don't know which one of us have to tell you first that
these are not the type of detail we share, because we would be even adding speculation on
some of the market situation. So, the only thing I would say is, again, no major change compared
to what we have discussed in the previous quarter. That would be my input to that question.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Amen.
Q - `Didier Scemama, Analyst, Bank of America `
Okay. Well, I'll allow myself to follow up then. For High NA (multiple speakers)
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Fair enough.
A - `Christophe Fouquet, President and Chief Executive Officer `
We cannot blame you for trying.
Q - `Didier Scemama, Analyst, Bank of America `
You know French people. No. On High NA, just maybe give us a little bit of insight into that third
shipment. Is that for a North American customer or is that also for maybe a Taiwanese or Korean
customer? That would be helpful.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `I think we said it's not for the North American customer, but we have not said and will not say
where it went.
Q - `Didier Scemama, Analyst, Bank of America `
Okay. I'll go back to the queue. Thank you for the questions. I've tried.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
You did.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `CJ Muse, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald from Cantor Fitzgerald. Please go
ahead.
Q - `CJ Muse, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Yes, good afternoon. Good morning. Thank you for taking the question. I guess first question, in
the video when you discussed your 2025 outlook, you talked about obviously AI supporting the
high end, other markets low end. I would have thought you would have completely de-risked the
other markets. So, can you touch on the level of de-risking embedded in your assumptions for
those customers where you've seen pushouts to '26? And for the high end, is there sufficient
clean room space at those Foundry and HBM customers to actually take tools by the Q4
timeframe?
A - `Christophe Fouquet, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, I think on the first part, I think Roger indicated, when it comes to booking, I think that mostly
we have de-risked the large part of EUV. So, the risk, I think I'm going to repeat myself on this
one, but the risk is just on some potential pushout. I think that's what it is. So, we're just a bit
cautious based again on some of the experience we all went through last year. So, that's the first
part to your question.
The second part, I think that's the right question. I think most probably today, we're looking at
opportunity to get more clean room space. I think that's what we mean by building up additional
capacity. And if this is possible, and if this happened, then we can most probably put some of our
tools there, but that's exactly what we're looking at with our customers.
Q - `CJ Muse, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Very helpful. And I guess as a follow-up, you talked about the ongoing shift led by AI across HPC
and HBM. And curious, in your discussions with your customers across both those fronts, can you
comment on kind of what you're seeing in terms of EUV layer counts, whether it's A16 or whether
it's going HBM3, E4, etc. I would love to hear kind of your thoughts on the trajectory there.
A - `Christophe Fouquet, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I think we tried to explain that in November. So, the need for a high-power computer, the
need for high bandwidth memory, so basically the AI-driven chips are more demanding when it
comes to advanced process. And I think what we said is we see those new products mostly
calling for a bit of an acceleration of more slow and therefore our customer being more
aggressive when it comes to technology transition.I think in some extent, you see a bit of that already with 2 nanometer and mostly what will come
after that. And I think we also said in November that historically, this has always driven more
demand for advanced Litho. That's of course a part of discussion we are having as we speak with
our customers.
So, part of the shift we see, I think that's one that we described as a positive one for us back in
November. And I think when it comes to the trend, the trend is there. And well, you're asking very
detailed question on future node. We don't have the detailed answer yet, but the trend is
definitely there.
Q - `CJ Muse, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Thanks so much.
A - `Christophe Fouquet, President and Chief Executive Officer `
You're welcome.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Andrew Gardiner, Analyst, Citi from Citi. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Andrew Gardiner, Analyst, Citi `
Good afternoon. Thanks for taking the question. I had another one on the customer visibility side
of things. It's encouraging, obviously, to see that you finished 2024 strongly in terms of orders.
But if I look at 2024 overall, you've had a fairly low level of orders from the logic community,
lowest since 2020. Now, I understand the multiple reasons why it's been weak in recent quarters.
So, really, I'm sort of interested in a more forward-looking view.
You've already explained that 2025 is essentially fully booked. But as I look to 2026, assuming
growth, as you've described loosely, Roger, it's something like 30% to 40% booked for next year,
depending on one's assumptions. And so then if I think of your lead times and the points you
were making about the stated customer plans for their CapEx, the 2 nanometer migration, and in
particular, the high-volume ramp in the first part of next year, don't you need to see order
commitments come in for EUV over the first half of this year in order to be able to meet those
customer needs on time?
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, Andrew, I think that's fair. So, we should be seeing order intake in the first two quarters,
particularly when it comes to EUV. I think that would be logical. As Christophe described, we do
have flexibility, obviously, in the way we approach 2026. So, we do have flexibility in our supply
chain and also in our manufacturing capability. So, it's not like at a certain point in time, that's
where the music stops. But definitely, we should continue to see good order intake in the first
two quarters. I think that's a fair assumption.
Q - `Andrew Gardiner, Analyst, Citi `
Thanks. I mean, related to your answer there, Roger, the strategy of pre-building, is that
continuing? Have you changed that at all, given the shift in customer dynamics we've seen over
the last six to nine months?A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
So, really, we're doing this also, Andrew, to make sure that we have a level loading of our factory,
right? So, and that's one. And second, in order to create sufficient flexibility for us. So, we're
reviewing that. We're obviously reviewing that based on the latest insights that we get from
customers. I reiterate the ongoing discussions that we have with customers, rather than just the
POs. And based on what we get there and based on the insights that we get there for this year
and for next year, that also determines what our pre-build strategy is. But that is an option that
we continue to have and that we continue to use in order to better optimize the loading of our
factory.
Q - `Andrew Gardiner, Analyst, Citi `
Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, SIG from SIG. Please go ahead.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, SIG `
Yes. Thanks for taking my question. Two follow-ups. Roger, can you give me an update where we
are with the throughput for NXE:3800E? Where is it today and how are you going to close the
year?
And then for the team, I want to better understand how you're planning internal capacity,
especially looking beyond the 2025. When we had a strong cycle a couple of years ago, your
backlog was in the $40 billion range. Do you see more flexibility with your capacity to bringing the
lead times down, especially with higher EUV mix and concentration of customers? Or would you
be more prudent and try to build a longer backlog?
I'm just trying to understand and balance your internal planning for the next couple of years
versus your ability to get customers committed, especially given there is more concentration of
customers for EUV.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, Mehdi. So, on the throughput, the systems that we shipped in last year were all on a better
throughput than the throughput of the 3600, but not yet at the maximum throughput. That
maximum throughput has been demonstrated and we're now in the process of rolling that out.
So, the newer tools that we're now shipping to customers will gradually meet that specification.
And for the tools that have been installed with the customers, we're going to make sure that in
the course of this year, that those tools also meet that higher expectation. So, therefore, you will
continue to see also us reporting on the improvement and also the revenue that we recognize
from the fact that we get those higher throughputs achieved with customers and also get
recognized for that. So, that's the status. So, the 220 has been demonstrated now in the process
of rolling that out for the new tools and also backporting that to the 3800s that are currently in
the field.
In terms of capacity beyond 2025, the key thing that we're doing is to make sure that what we
call is the long lead time items that they are in place, i.e., that we have the flexibility to respond to
higher demands and that we have the long lead time items that we have those in place.If you look at what we're projecting in terms of growth for the second half of this decade,
including what we're projecting for 2030, then it's clear that capacity needs to be built. So, the
infrastructure, we have already built and continue to do that so that the long -- that the
infrastructure is in place and that then together with supply chain and with our headcount, we can
respond once we get the very clear signals from our customers that demand is accelerating.
That's the way we approach it.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, SIG `
So, does that mean the backlog would be kind of in the 18-month range or are we going to go
back to like '22, '23 when backlog was extended due to supply constraints?
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
No, that would not be. I think a normal backlog is ultimately what we want to be able to offer to
our customers. We want to be able to offer to our customers a normal backlog because that will
also help them respond to their business. I mean, that's ultimately what we want to get, that
customers have a backlog that is and a order lead time that is manageable for them and that
allows them to respond in a good and flexible way to their demands or fluctuations. And that's
our ultimate goal. And that's why we want to be as flexible as we can. And that's why we've put in
the infrastructure such that we are able to give our customers a normal order lead time. That's
the objective that we are driving.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, SIG `
Got it. Thank you for the details.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
You're welcome.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Stephane Houri, Analyst, ODDO BHF from ODDO BHF. Please
go ahead.
Q - `Stephane Houri, Analyst, ODDO BHF `
Yes. Good afternoon. I would like to come back on the guidance for 2025. Last quarter, I think you
gave us some elements to rationalize how you could get to the middle of the range. And you
gave two elements. One was on the non-EUV, non-China that was supposed to grow largely by
double-digit, let's say 50%. So, can you maybe come back on that and confirm if that's still what
you expect?
And the second element was about the Installed Base Management revenues that you said could
be at about $7.5 billion. But if you take the first quarter where you get for $2.1 billion, it gives a run
rate, if you multiply by four, of much bigger than $7.5 billion, $8.4 billion, $8.5 billion, so $1 billion
above. So, is there any seasonality we should have in mind about Installed Base Managemen?
Thank you.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
So, let's take the last one first. So, the $7.5 billion, that's the number that we still include in our
guidance. And of course, over the quarters, you've also seen that last year, there can be somefluctuations. To a very large extent, that's dependent on upgrades. So, that fluctuates from one
quarter to the other. I would also say, and you know that, our visibility into the upgrades is, of
course, less than the service business. But I think for now, I would encourage to still use the $7.5
billion as the right number.
When it comes to the non-China, non-EUV business, I think you mentioned 50%. I think that's on
the higher end. I think that's a little higher than what I had in my model when we were having the
conversations. So, 50% is a little too high, I think. I think you wanted -- I think we said it's sort of on
par with what you would see in the EUV business, and that would get you to approximately 40%,
the increase. And that's sort of where I think you're going to land.
Q - `Stephane Houri, Analyst, ODDO BHF `
And this isn't changed, right?
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
What was that? No, it's not a change. That's not changed.
Q - `Stephane Houri, Analyst, ODDO BHF `
Okay.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
No, that has not changed. That is still consistent with the analysis that we provided after Q3.
Q - `Stephane Houri, Analyst, ODDO BHF `
Thank you very much.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
You're welcome.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Michael Roeg, Analyst, DeGroof Petercam from DeGroof Petercam.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Michael Roeg, Analyst, DeGroof Petercam `
Yes, good afternoon. Can I ask a question about one of your slides from the Investor Day 2024?
A - `Christophe Fouquet, President and Chief Executive Officer `
We'll do our best.
Q - `Michael Roeg, Analyst, DeGroof Petercam `
Okay. Well, now you're still laughing.
A - `Christophe Fouquet, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Whoa.Q - `Michael Roeg, Analyst, DeGroof Petercam `
It's a presentation by Mr. Harchandani, Slide number 13. And that is the slide with the seven end
markets and the total semiconductor sales. I'm sure you'll be able to visualize that one, correct?
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
I have it in mind. Yes, yes.
Q - `Michael Roeg, Analyst, DeGroof Petercam `
Okay, good. Well, first of all, it's a pity that you no longer show the historical data, which you did in
the past. So, now my whole model is missing a few years. But now my question is the following.
Do you believe that your customers will be able to generate EUR1 trillion in sales in 2030?
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
It's not our customers, right? When you talk about the semiconductor industry, it's the customers.
Q - `Michael Roeg, Analyst, DeGroof Petercam `
And that is precisely the answer I want to hear. Because the Gardner market definition doesn't
represent your customers. It represents your customers, the IDMs, and the Fab-less companies
that are customers of your Foundry customers.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes.
Q - `Michael Roeg, Analyst, DeGroof Petercam `
However, if I look at these seven end markets, then my perception is that the difference between
vendor sales and manufacturer sales, which is a huge gap for the total market, that that
difference is biggest for smartphone and data centers, because that's where the IDMs have the
smallest positions. So, you've changed all your scenarios with data center scenarios going up,
most other markets scenarios going down, which optically looks great. But from a manufacturer
perspective, I don't know if anything has changed, actually.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
To be honest, I think you're losing a bit of the audience here. And you're looking at a slide that no
one else is looking at. So, I would suggest that we have a follow on conversation on this topic.
Q - `Michael Roeg, Analyst, DeGroof Petercam `
Perfect. Perfect. However, you know what I'm talking about. I'm surprised that everybody keeps
showing the Gardner data, which are not a reflection of the equipment customers.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, I appreciate it. But I think we'll have the right follow-up action.
Q - `Michael Roeg, Analyst, DeGroof Petercam `Let's take it offline. Then one tiny follow-up, then a whole different topic that's on the, you will no
longer show the quarterly bookings is perhaps a 12-month rolling booking figure, something that
would be smoothing out all those lumpy intakes.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
But to be honest, I think a backlog per annum gets you awfully close to that, right? Because if you
have the backlog and you have the sales numbers for the quarters, I think it doesn't take you too
much to kind of recalculate that. So, I think by (multiple speakers)
Q - `Michael Roeg, Analyst, DeGroof Petercam `
But we only see it once a year, don't we?
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, you do. Yes. Yes. And I think as I explained before, we believe that's an important data point
for you and it's good enough.
Q - `Michael Roeg, Analyst, DeGroof Petercam `
All right. We'll take it offline. And then more questions about these slides will be in the next
quarter and the one thereafter, because I've got many more questions. Thank you.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Appreciate that. Thank you.
A - `Jim Kavanagh, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Okay. We've got time for one last question. If you've been unable to get through on this call and
still have questions, please feel free to contact ASML Investor Relations with your question.
Now, operator, can we have the last caller, please?
Operator
Thank you. Your last question today comes from the line of `Sandeep Deshpande, Analyst, J.P. Morgan from J.P.
Morgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `Sandeep Deshpande, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Yes. Hi, good afternoon and thanks for letting me on. I have a quick question as a follow-up on
High NA. Christophe, you talked to -- or to a response to an earlier question that you will know in
12 to 18 months the timing of the insertion of High NA. But in terms of your backlog, I believe you
already do have High NA tools in your backlog for shipment in 2026. So, how do you put the two
and two together that you will know whether the customer is going to use these tools in high-
volume manufacturing only later in the year or next year, but you are already possibly building
these tools for the customer? So, is there a risk that the customer says to you at the end of the
year that, well, actually, we're not going to implement the tools into production next year, and
that these orders don't happen in 2026, which are there in the backlog today?
A - `Christophe Fouquet, President and Chief Executive Officer `Well, I think -- so you mentioned the backlog, and I think you know that, indeed, in our backlog, we
have quite a few tools that are not EXE:5000, which was a tool basically planned for R&D. So,
indeed, our customers have upfront already ordered some 5200, which are tools intended to be
used in high-volume manufacturing. So, this means that the logic of insertion has been there for
quite a while. You start with R&D, then you plan for, I would say, a reasonable insertion.
So, those tools in the backlog are, indeed, going to support that, and I think we look at a few
tools per customer, which are sufficient, basically, to start going, and that's what we call usually
the first node insertion, and after that, of course, when we look at new booking on High NA, we'll
be most probably looking at the bigger insertion in the node after that, which is a bit later. But the
logic you describe is the logic customers have put in place together with us already, in fact, a
couple of years ago, and I think they are sticking to that logic today.
Q - `Sandeep Deshpande, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
All right. Okay. Since you've run out of time, I will leave it at that. Thank you so much.
A - `Christophe Fouquet, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Roger Dassen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Jim Kavanagh, Vice President of Investor Relations `
All right. And so now, on behalf of ASML, I'd like to thank you all for joining us today. Operator, if
you could formally close the call, that would be much appreciated. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. This concludes the ASML 2024 fourth quarter and full-year financial results conference
call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.