Q4 2014 Earnings Call

Operator
Good afternoon. My name is Chris, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time I
would like to welcome everyone to the ON Semiconductor Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference
Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers'
remarks, there will be a question and answer session.
Thank you. Parag Agarwal, Senior Director of Investor Relations, you may begin your conference.
Parag Agarwal `
Thank you, Chris. Good afternoon and thank you for joining ON Semiconductor Corporation's
fourth quarter 2014 quarterly results conference call. I am joined today by Keith Jackson, our
President and CEO, and Bernard Gutmann, our CFO.
This call is being webcast on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.onsemi.com. A
replay will be available at our website approximately one hour following this live broadcast, and
will continue to be available for approximately 30 days following this conference call, along with
our earnings release for the fourth quarter of 2014. The script for today's call is posted on our
website. Additional information related to our end markets, business segments, geographies,
channels, and share count is also posted on our website.
Our earnings release and this presentation include certain non-GAAP financial measures.under GAAP are in our earnings release, which is posted separately on our website in the Investor
Relations section.
During the course of this conference call, we will make projections or other forward-looking
statements regarding future events or future financial performance of the company. The words
believe, estimate, project, anticipate, intend, may, expect, will, plan, should, or similar expressions
are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We wish to caution that such statements are
subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially.
Important factors which can affect our business, including factors that could cause actual results to
differ from our forward-looking statements, are described in Forms 10-Ks, Form 10-Qs and other
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Additional factors are described in our earnings release for the fourth quarter of 2014. Our
estimates may change, and the company assumes no obligation to update forward-looking
statements to reflect actual results, changed assumptions, or other factors, except as required
by the law.
I take this opportunity to remind you of our 2015 Analyst Day, which we plan to host on February
26 in Scottsdale, Arizona. If you would like to register for the event, please go tour Investor
Relations website at www.onsemi.com.
Now, let me turn it over to Bernard Gutmann, who will provide an overview of fourth-quarter 2014
results. Bernard?
Bernard Gutmann `
Thank you Parag, and thank you everyone for joining us today.
Let me start by providing an update on overall business results. During the fourth quarter, we
noticed a significant improvement in our order trends following a slowdown towards the end of
the third quarter. The strength in orders has continued so far in the current quarter, and based on
our design-win pipeline and a generally favorable global macroeconomic outlook, we remain
optimistic regarding our near- to mid-term outlook.
The integration of Truesense is effectively complete, and integration of Aptina Imaging is
progressing well. For the fourth quarter, Aptina was nicely accretive to our non-GAAP net income,
which excludes the impact of such items as costs related to restructuring, fair-market value step-
up of inventory, amortization of intangibles, and other special items. We remain on track to deliver
projected financial results provided at the time of announcement of our acquisition of Aptina.
Keith will provide additional color on the progress on Aptina and Truesense.
Now let me provide you with an update on our fourth quarter 2014 results. ON Semiconductor
today announced that total revenue for the fourth quarter of 2014 was approximately $864
million, an increase of approximately 3.7% compared to the third quarter of 2014. Included in our
fourth quarter results is the contribution for the full quarter from our acquisition of Aptina Imaging,
which closed on August 15, 2014.
GAAP net income for the fourth quarter was $0.01 per diluted share. Excluding the impact of
amortization of intangibles and restructuring, step-up valuation of inventory, and other special
items, non-GAAP net income for the quarter was $0.17 per diluted share.
GAAP gross margin for the fourth quarter was 32.1%, as compared to 33.7% in the third quarter of
2014. Non-GAAP gross margin for the fourth quarter was 34.1%, down approximately 110 basisquarter, mainly due to lower factory utilization, write-down of inventory related to a smartphone
customer, and other one-time reserves. The write-down of smartphone inventory was higher than
our expectations. Average selling prices for the fourth quarter decreased by approximately 2% as
compared to the third quarter.
GAAP operating margin for the fourth quarter of 2014 was approximately 2.3%, as compared to
approximately 6.8% in the third quarter. Our non-GAAP operating margin for the fourth quarter
was 10.3%, down approximately 230 basis points as compared to the third quarter of 2014.
Lower gross margin was the key driver for sequential decline in non-GAAP operating margin for
the fourth quarter.
GAAP operating expenses for the fourth quarter were approximately $257.6 million, as compared
to approximately $224.1 million for the third quarter of 2014. Non-GAAP operating expenses for
the fourth quarter were approximately $205.7 million, up approximately $16.7 million as compared
to the third quarter of 2014. The sequential increase in non-GAAP operating expenses was driven
primarily by inclusion of Aptina for the full quarter in our results.
We exited the fourth quarter of 2014 with cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments
of approximately $517.8 million, an increase of approximately $23 million from the third quarter of
2014. Operating cash flow for the fourth quarter was approximately $162.5 million, as compared
to approximately $92 million in the third quarter. We spent approximately $41.3 million of cash for
the purchase of capital equipment, and approximately $20.4 million for acquisition of a non-
controlling interest in our Leshan joint venture.
During the fourth quarter, we used approximately $39.5 million for the repayment of long-term
debt and capital leases, and issued debt of approximately $38.9 million. We used approximately
$68.1 million to repurchase approximately 8 million shares of our common stock at an average
price of $8.32. This is the highest amount of capital we have deployed for share repurchase in a
quarter since we instituted our first buyback program in the third quarter of 2012. At the end of
the fourth quarter, approximately $976 million remained of the authorized amount under the
current stock purchase program, which was announced on December 1, 2014.
For the full year 2014, we generated free cash flow of approximately $277 million, despite using
approximately $51 million of cash for restructuring. We remain on track to generate annual free
cash flow of $300 million to $400 million in the near to mid-term. We define free cash flow as
cash flow from operations less capital expenditures. We expect that our capital expenditures
should remain in the current range of 6% to 7% of revenue in the near- to mid-term.
At the end of the fourth quarter, ON Semiconductor days of inventory on hand were 116 days,
down approximately seven days from the prior quarter. Excluding the impact of fair market value
step-up of Aptina's inventory, days of inventory at the end of the fourth quarter were also 116
days, down approximately five days from the prior quarter.
In fourth quarter of 2014, distribution inventory was up by approximately $6 million quarter-over-
quarter, and distribution resales declined by approximately 6% quarter-over-quarter. In terms of
days, distributor inventory was up by a week quarter-over-quarter to approximately 10 weeks. For
the fourth quarter of 2014, our lead times were down approximately two weeks as compared to
the third quarter. In the fourth quarter, our global factory utilization was in the low 80% range as
compared to high 80% range for the third quarter.
Now let me provide you an update on performance by our business units, starting with Image
Sensor Group, or ISG. Revenue for our Image Sensor Group was approximately $166 million, asmillion was driven primarily by the inclusion of Aptina for the full quarter. Revenue for our Standard
Product Group for the fourth quarter of 2014 was approximately $297 million, down approximately
7% quarter-over-quarter. Revenue for our Applications Product Group was approximately $260
million, down approximately 2% quarter-over-quarter.
Revenue for the fourth quarter of 2014 for the System Solutions Group was approximately $141
million, down approximately 4% quarter-over-quarter. Revenue for SSG was negatively impacted
by the weakness of the Japanese yen. However, as we have a natural hedge in place with a
sizeable amount of cost base in Japanese yen, the net impact on earnings was approximately
neutral. SSG was accretive to our non-GAAP EPS with contribution of approximately $0.01. Non-
GAAP EPS and net income exclude the impact of such items as costs related to restructuring,
amortization of intangibles, and other items.
Now, I would like to turn the call over to Keith Jackson for additional comments on the business
environment. Keith?
Keith D. Jackson `
Thanks, Bernard. Let me start with laying out our priorities for 2015, and then I will reflect on our
accomplishments for 2014. Lastly, I will address the overall business environment and trends in
various end markets.
For 2015, there are three main objectives for us. First, deliver improved financial performance in
terms of margins and free cash flow. Second, complete integration of Aptina and deliver the
targeted financial results from the acquisition. And third, continue to build on our momentum in
our strategic growth segments of automotive, wireless devices, and select areas of industrial.
Now let me expand on each of these objectives, starting from improving margins and cash flow.
The key drivers for margin expansion and improving cash flow will be mix improvement,
acquisition integration, and significant reduction in restructuring activities. During 2015, we should
continue to drive growth in our higher-margin end markets, which include automotive, industrial,
and smartphones. At the same time, integration of Aptina and improved operating performance
from SSG should contribute to improved margins and higher cash flows.
I'm excited about our prospects for 2015. We should have tailwinds from SSG, Truesense, and
Aptina, which coupled with improved performance of our core business should enable us to
deliver strong cash flow and EPS expansion. I'm confident that we should be able to achieve our
free cash flow target of $300 million to $400 million in 2015. Furthermore, we do expect leverage
to EPS from our four-year $1 billion share repurchase program announced in December of last
year. We do believe that our strong free cash flow generation and a consistent capital return
policy in the form of stock repurchase should help drive significant value for our shareholders.
Moving on, at the time we announced the acquisition of Aptina, we had indicated to the
investment community that we intended to achieve EPS accretion of $0.08 from Aptina in 2015.
Based on our experience with the business during last few months, I am very confident of
archiving the profitability targets for Aptina. In fact, I'm pleased to report that financial
performance of Aptina so far has significantly exceeded our expectations. Aptina should enable
us to drive growth in the industrial and automotive market in a significant manner. The strategic
value of Aptina was further reinforced by extremely positive reaction from many of our
customers, especially in the automotive and industrial end markets.
Lastly, let me discuss our continuing thrust in the automotive, industrial, and wireless end markets.
Our strategy is to grow our presence in these markets, as we believe these markets will growfaster than the overall semiconductor market in the next five years. Furthermore, a mix shift
toward these markets should enable us to improve our margins. Our strategy has been paying
dividends, as apparent from accretion in our revenue in these end markets. We have existing
relationships with most of the major players in these markets, and we intend to leverage our
broadening product portfolio to grow our presence with our customer base. In 2015, we intend to
grow our revenue in the automotive, industrial, and wireless end markets in high single-digit
percentage range.
Let me now briefly address our achievements in the past year. 2014 was a pivotal year for ON
Semiconductor. During the year, we stabilized System Solutions Group and made two accretive
acquisitions, which have positioned us as the leader in image sensors for industrial and
automotive applications.
We instituted a capital return policy, under which we plan to repurchase $1 billion of our stock
during next four years. I do believe that given the outlook for our business and current valuation
level of our stock, repurchase of our stock is an extremely compelling opportunity for deployment
of our capital.
We showed strong execution on our strategy to grow our automotive, industrial and smartphone
revenue. On an organic basis, our automotive revenue grew in the double-digit percentage
range, and industrial and wireless revenue grew in the high single-digit percentage range.
Now I'll provide some details of the progress in our various end markets. The automotive end
market represented approximately 32% of our revenue in the fourth quarter and was up
approximately 12% quarter over quarter. Contribution from Aptina for the full quarter was the key
driver of sequential growth. Fourth quarter automotive revenue was stronger than anticipated in
all regions except for Japan. Demand was especially strong in the U.S. and China, and we had
record revenue in these regions. In addition to unit growth, share gains and increasing content
are also driving growth in our automotive revenue. We believe that the decline in oil prices has
been a key catalyst for automotive demand.
Aptina posted solid results for automotive in the fourth quarter. Attach rates for rearview cameras
continue to increase, driven primarily by automotive customers in North America, Korea, and
Japan. We saw continued strength in current-generation Advanced Driver Assistance Systems
(ADAS) solutions and ramp of our newest 1-megapixel ADAS solution with automotive customers
in Europe and Japan. There was also strong traction with our 1/3-inch 720p sensor with Chinese
OEMs and continued adoption of our VGA 1/4-inch sensor in the low-end market vehicles.
During the fourth quarter, our automotive segment registered a few impressive design wins. We
won sockets for a key pedal position sensor interface win at a major European Tier 1 customer, an
Integrated Power Module, or IPM, at a key Japanese Tier 1 customer, and a scalable door module
solution at a key Tier 1 customer in North America.
In 2015, we look forward to ramp many of our design wins, especially for LED front and rear
lighting solutions, motor control ICs and modules, ultrasonic park-assist solutions, image sensors,
and custom silicon. Ramp of discrete IGBTs and complete igniter solutions from SSG should also
drive revenue growth in 2015. Revenue for the first quarter for our automotive segment is
expected to be up quarter over quarter.
The communications end market, which includes both networking and wireless, represented
approximately 18% of our revenue in the fourth quarter and was down approximately 4% quarter
over quarter. Our revenue for the communications market was impacted by inventory correctionOur wireless charging solution for smartphones received a significant amount of attention at the
recent CES in January. We believe that we have the right products based on standards and
technologies that will be broadly adopted by the leading market participants and consumers. Our
solutions offer better power efficiency, a smaller footprint, and convenience of charging multiple
devices on a single charging platform.
Our wireless charging solution is expected to be the first to be embedded in major mobile
devices, whereas most of the existing solutions are incorporated in aftermarket applications.
During the quarter we broadly sampled our wireless charging products to lead customers. We
expect to see revenue contribution from our wireless charging solutions in the second half of the
year, followed by a steep ramp in 2016 and beyond.
In addition to success in wireless charging, our momentum in the smartphone market remains
strong, driven by increasing content and share gains. We are favorably exposed to the major
players in the market, and we are increasing our presence with the key share gainers. Our
content in smartphones manufactured by several China based smartphone OEMs is more than $3
per device. We continue to gain share in the smartphone market with our battery protection,
battery chargers, autofocus, optical image stabilizers, ESD protection, filtering devices, and
power management ICs. Revenue for the first quarter for our communications segment is
expected to be down quarter-over-quarter due to seasonality.
The consumer end market represented approximately 15% of our revenue in the first quarter,
and was down approximately 1% quarter-over-quarter. Demand from action sports camera
customers was stronger than expected during the quarter for our image sensor solutions. We
continue to see increasing adoption of 13-megapixel image sensor solutions for mainstream
consumer mobile designs. There is also a strong push for Fast Focus and OIS solutions at 13
megapixel and higher.
Design win activity during the quarter including adoption of our 3 Amp Intelligent Power Module
and 20 Amp IPM for two key white-goods manufacturers. These wins are expected to ramp in the
first half of 2015. We also secured design wins for our image sensors for home monitoring
applications and B2B conferencing. Revenue for the first quarter for our consumer segment is
expected to be down quarter-over-quarter due to normal seasonality.
The industrial end market, which includes military, aerospace and medical, represented
approximately 24% of our revenue in the fourth quarter and was up approximately 11% quarter-
over-quarter. The sequential growth was driven primarily by contribution for the full quarter from
Aptina. We are seeing improving business trends from our customers in the commercial and
residential building segments. We saw good growth during the quarter for our new medical
imaging ASICs for CT imaging at a key customer, and for circuit breaking ASIC for a major
residential GFCI/AFCI customer. We continue to see strong growth for our ASICs for mobile point
of sale credit card solutions, especially in Asia.
Aptina continued its momentum in the industrial market with wins for new image sensor products
at the top-tier bar code scanning customers. These wins were driven by strong traction from our
1/3-inch 1-megapixel Global Shutter offering. We secured additional wins for our 1/3-inch 13-
megapixel imager for commercial handheld scanners. Revenue for the first quarter for our
Industrial segment is expected to be up quarter-over-quarter.
The computing end market represented approximately 11% of our revenue in the fourth quarter,
and was down approximately 10% compared to the third quarter. In addition to normal seasonaldeclines, Haswell notebook Vcore share gains were offset by reduced power stage content from
Ivy Bridge generation platforms and lower ASPs.
Furthermore, we are being selective in the computing market and we are focusing on
opportunities with better margin profiles. During the quarter, we broadly sampled our IMVP8
Vcore solutions for next-generation Intel Skylake platforms. We expect strong Vcore share gains
on Skylake notebook platforms to be amplified by significantly increased power stage content.
Revenue for the first quarter for our computing segment is expected to be down quarter-over-
quarter due to seasonality.
Now, I'd like to turn it back over to Bernard for other comments and our other forward-looking
guidance. Bernard?
Bernard Gutmann `
Thank you, Keith. Before I get into the guidance for the first quarter of 2015, let me inform you
that we have revised results for prior periods to record a deferred tax asset in a foreign
subsidiary. The prior periods also include revised amounts from a change in application of an
accounting policy related to manufacturing variances and other adjustments. We have
determined that all amounts were immaterial to each of the reporting periods.
Now for the first quarter of 2015 outlook. Based upon product booking trends, backlog levels,
and estimated turn levels, we anticipate that total ON Semiconductor revenues will be
approximately $840 million to $880 million in the first quarter of 2015. Backlog levels for the first
quarter of 2015 represents approximately 80% to 85% of our anticipated first quarter 2015
revenues.
Our first quarter revenue is being negatively impacted by approximately $6 million due to the
strength in U.S. dollar relative to European and Asian currencies. However, the impact to our
bottom line from foreign exchange volatility is neutral, as we have a natural hedge in place due to
a significant cost base in Europe and Asia.
We expect that average selling prices in the first quarter of 2015 will be down by approximately
2% as compared to the fourth quarter of 2014. We expect inventory at distributors to fall quarter-
over-quarter on a dollar basis. We expect total capital expenditures of approximately $65 million
to $75 million in the first quarter of 2015.
For the first quarter of 2015, we expect GAAP and non-GAAP gross margin of approximately
33.4% to 35.4%. We expect total GAAP operating expenses of approximately $231 million to $244
million. Our GAAP operating expenses include the amortization of intangibles, restructuring, asset
impairments, and other charges, which are expected to be approximately $31 million to $34
million. We expect total non-GAAP operating expenses of approximately $200 million to $210
million.
We anticipate GAAP net interest expense and other expenses will be approximately $9 million to
$11 million for the first quarter of 2015, which include noncash interest expense of approximately
$2 million. We anticipate our non-GAAP net interest expense and other expenses will be
approximately $7 million to $9 million. GAAP taxes are expected to be approximately $7 million to
$10 million, and cash taxes are expected to be approximately $5 million to $8 million.
We also expect the share-based compensation to be approximately $12 million to $14 million in
the first quarter of 2015, of which approximately $2 million is expected to be in cost of goodssold, and the remaining amount is expected to be in operating expenses. This expense is
included in our non-GAAP financial measures.
Our diluted share count for the first quarter of 2015 is expected to be approximately 435 million
shares, based on the current stock price. Further details on share count and earnings per share
calculations are provided regularly in our quarterly and annual reports on Forms 10-Q and 10-K.
With that, I would like to start the Q&A session. Thank you. And, Chris, please open up the line for
questions.
Q&A
Operator
Certainly. Your first question is from Ross Seymore with Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.
Q - `Ross C. Seymore, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Hi, guys. Thanks for letting me ask a question, and congratulations on the solid results and
guidance. I guess first of all, Keith, you were nice enough to give some guidance on what you
thought would be the growth sectors by end market. Could you give us the same sort of growth
trajectory for 2015 by your product segments?
A - Keith D. Jackson `
So our product segments, I'm not going to be able to give you precise numbers, but I will say that
we have broad participation by the SPG group in every segment. So I expect they have a strong
placement in automotive, smartphones and industrial, and should be pretty much in line with
those numbers I just mentioned. Our APG group is heavily weighted to automotive and industrial,
so again, I think you'll see maybe a favorable trend to the corporate average with that group. SSG
has a good blend in the smartphone and industrial areas. They might be slightly lower than the
corporate average in that growth in those three segments. And then Aptina, of course, the
majority of their business, automotive and industrial, they should see slightly better than
corporate average.
Q - `Ross C. Seymore, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Perfect. And I guess as my follow-up for Bernard, could you give us an idea of the sort of
progression through the year? And I know you're only guiding for one quarter, but the
progression through the year as you integrate Aptina and take whatever sort of expenses out for
both the gross margin and the absolute dollars of OpEx. Thank you.
A - Bernard Gutmann `
Thank you, Ross. So, on the OpEx front, last quarter we talked about remaining fairly flat with our
private guidance, which was $210 million. We have reduced for the first quarter to $205 million. So
I expect the first and second quarter to be fairly even. And then we should see a small increase in
cost that will be partially offset with synergies. So in general, it's a very flat to slightly up trend, but
still quite flat.
Gross margin, it's also a function or a big function of the revenue progression by quarter, so that
will be more a result of that. As we have talked in the past, it's more a function of the fall-through,
about the 50% of that incremental revenue, so it will be function of the growth by quarter.
Synergies, we should see some of them coming gradually throughout the year, especially as we –with the integration of the CFA operation. And the mix will also be gradual. So it's more a function
of the seasonality of the top line that will cause the fall-through to the bottom line.
Q - `Ross C. Seymore, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Perfect, thank you.
Operator
Your next question is from John Pitzer with Credit Suisse. Your line is open.
Q - `John William Pitzer, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
Yeah, good afternoon, guys. Thanks for answering the question and congratulations on the
strong results. Keith, I want to talk a little bit about the PC business in particular. I think in your
prepared comments, you talked about that being down along seasonal lines in the calendar first
quarter. There's clearly been a lot of mixed data points on the PC front. Microsoft, the hard disk
drive guys. I'm just curious. What gives you the confidence around seasonal – I mean, as you go
throughout the year in the PC business, can you talk a little bit about where you think your
potential share gains are going to come from Skylake? Because clearly a lot of guys in the market
today all claim they're going to be gaining share as Skylake comes out in the back half of the year.
Would love to get your perspective on that.
A - Keith D. Jackson `
Okay. So PC seasonality. You know, we're really looking from a backlog basis and just doing
comparatives to sequential changes in our normal seasonal patterns, so right now I guess the
confidence is just based on the backlog that's been laid out by our customers and orders that are
on books. From the progression during the year, I can't speak to the other guys, what I can tell
you is we've done very, very nice with design wins on Skylake, and as we've mentioned before
they have more dollar content in the power rails there, and so we are expecting very nice gains,
and we are expecting we'll move from kind of our low- to mid-30s percent market share in
notebooks today, with an opportunity to get to about half the market in the Skylake platforms. So
the net of all that is, as they ramp in the second half of this year, we're still expecting very
substantial gains from current levels.
Q - `John William Pitzer, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
That's helpful. And then, Keith, maybe you could talk a little bit about the capital allocation. Now
that you've gotten some of these acquisition and integration behind you, I'm just kind of curious,
how do you think about buyback versus dividend? And is there a point in time in the maturation of
the company where dividend starts to make a lot of sense? And if so, how do you come to that
conclusion?
A - Keith D. Jackson `
Certainly. And return of capital to shareholders can be done in many forms, and a lot of
companies do it in several forms simultaneously. What we're looking at right now is, we look at
the multiples the company is getting, share-price-wise, as compared to the marketplace and
peers, and frankly, as long as that underperforms those metrics, share buybacks seem to make a
lot of sense. As we get more normally valued, as it were, then certainly the dividend would
become a more attractive portion of it, for either part of the capital return or all of it, depending
on where than number sets.Q - `John William Pitzer, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
Okay. Thanks guys. Congratulations again.
A - Keith D. Jackson `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question is from `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Merrill Lynch with Bank of America. Your line is open.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thanks for taking my question. Sounds like you're off to a good start with Aptina. Could you give
us some color on how much that is roughly of your Q1 outlook? And then more importantly, which
applications are you seeing the most traction? And I believe you mentioned rear-view cameras.
And then what are the next set of milestones around your integration progress?
A - Keith D. Jackson `
Okay, a lot of questions there. From an Aptina traction perspective, the automobile is – current
sales are mostly around the rear camera and attach rates there as more car companies put rear
cameras in their cars. But from a design win traction perspective, the advanced driver assist
systems hold a lot of promise for significant growth as we're going forward, and we've seen a lot
of strong design wins that are now starting to ramp in the more high-end models here this year.
So lots of momentum in automotive besides just backup cameras, and that's pretty exciting to us.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Got it. And then as a follow-up, I believe you mentioned that disti inventory was up by a week to
10 weeks, yet your lead times were down by two weeks relative to the last quarter. I'm trying to
make sense of both these. Is this consistent with seasonality? Should we be reading in anything
else into it?
A - Keith D. Jackson `
So a couple things are consistent with the seasonality, and some of it are company unique. The
lead time contraction very bluntly is mostly due to some substantial capacity we installed in the
fourth quarter in our Small Signal business, which drives a large number of units. That pulled the
lead times in, and so the lead time piece of it is pretty much just the additional capacity, which
came on in a very large module in the fourth quarter.
Distribution tends to slow down year-end. That's not a new phenomenon, so the weeks of supply
there or days of supply there goes up slightly. Ten weeks is still low for us. We like to be closer to
11 or 12 weeks. And as Bernard in his comments mentioned, we expect those numbers on a dollar
basis to go down. And you can see from our revenue guidance, you should be seeing a
contraction again in Q1 to our inventories in distribution. So nothing really abnormal there, more
normal seasonal behavior.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Got it. One last question if I may, you mentioned the communications market was impacted by
some inventory correction in some segments. If you could, give us some more color and if youthink that inventory correction is over now. Thank you.
A - Keith D. Jackson `
It's predominantly handsets in spots of China and other places, but handsets, and we think it's
largely behind us. The backlogs for Q1 look much more seasonal, and Q4 was more than
seasonal.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay, thank you.
Operator
Your next question is from Christopher Rolland with FBR Capital Markets. Your line is open.
Q - `Christopher Adam Jackson Rolland, FBR Capital Markets & Co. `
Hey, guys. I echo my congrats on a great quarter, great job. So if we could talk about auto quickly,
great exposure there. Do you guys think you can hit double-digit organic growth again there this
year? And how are you looking at long-term organic rates there?
A - Keith D. Jackson `
We do think we can hit double-digit organic growth there this year based on design wins in the
wide range of platforms we've been talking about. Long term, we think the market itself is more
mid to high single-digit growth from a content perspective, but we've really done a couple of
things there that have changed our dynamics. One of them is getting a very strong image sensor
position; and then secondly, with some of the big wins I just mentioned to you, just reflective of
the share gains we've been getting in the marketplace.
Q - `Christopher Adam Jackson Rolland, FBR Capital Markets & Co. `
Okay, great. And then also on the rate of buyback, should we roughly expect this on a quarterly
basis? And also, why not accelerate your buyback program with a little bit of debt here,
particularly given that you think the stock is cheap here? And then also, what is the multiple at
which you think you might switch to a divi? Should we think industry average, or how should we
think about it?
A - Bernard Gutmann `
So obviously, we're still learning in the process. We do think that with $1 billion over four years, you
can't not do a fairly ratable, at least, (38:03) to start with. So that's how we are modeling it for
right now. The industry average of our peers is probably a good measure to start looking at
whether it makes sense to switch or do some partial, but obviously we'll have to discuss that and
analyze that in a lot more detail.
Q - `Christopher Adam Jackson Rolland, FBR Capital Markets & Co. `
And sorry, why not take out a little bit of debt and accelerate the buyback program?
A - Bernard Gutmann `
It's always an alternative that can be looked at. We consider all alternatives always. At this
moment, I think it's prudent. Leverage is a good thing to still have, and we are pretty happywhere we are. We are not afraid of leverage, but we don't want to go overboard.
Q - `Christopher Adam Jackson Rolland, FBR Capital Markets & Co. `
Thanks, guys, and congrats again.
Operator
Your next question is from Steve Smigie with Raymond James. Your line is open.
Q - `J. Steven Smigie, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
Great, thanks a lot, and I'll echo the congratulations. And on that point actually, the guidance here
I think is fairly good, considering some weakness we've seen in industrial from some other folks.
And so, Keith, I was wondering if you could comment a little bit on, do you view your performance
here as better than average? And if so, is that driven by the acquisitions doing better than
expected, or just you've had design wins and they're paying off now, any color there?
A - Keith D. Jackson `
It does vary by market. I will say in industrial, I mentioned a few of the wins we've had in building
and construction, which are all – they're not related to acquisitions. They're all big wins that have
been out there and are finally starting to get a product cycle in a positive side. And the medical
ones we talked about, also new design wins. So just in general, I'd say we've had some really
good design win performance in 2015 that are giving us some momentum, perhaps better than
some of the competition as we go into Q1.
Q - `J. Steven Smigie, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
Okay, great. And I'm just curious on the Leshan investment there. What was the reasoning behind
that?
A - Keith D. Jackson `
Basically, over time we would love to own the entire asset. It gives us a little more flexibility
without having to satisfy a partner as we expand that facility, so it's just another step towards that.
It takes us up from 70% to about 80% of that asset.
Q - `J. Steven Smigie, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
Okay, great. Thank you very much.
Operator
Your next question is from Kevin Cassidy with Stifel. Your line is open.
Q - `Kevin E. Cassidy, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Thanks for taking my question. The wireless charging seems like an exciting new product area. I
guess, what would the dollar content change be, from the standard charging to the wireless
charging?
A - Keith D. Jackson `
It's about $1.00 per handset, would be a round number approximation.Q - `Kevin E. Cassidy, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Okay, $1 increase?
A - Keith D. Jackson `
Yes.
Q - `Kevin E. Cassidy, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
I would assume, okay. And also on the PC, are you working on wireless charging for PCs also?
A - Keith D. Jackson `
Absolutely. The standard for wireless charging is usable, frankly, by all electronics, and we're very
active out there working with things other than handsets, including PCs, right now.
Q - `Kevin E. Cassidy, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Okay. And similar content – dollar content increase?
A - Keith D. Jackson `
Similar content. It's a little different because there's a little higher power content in the notebook
than there is in a handset so it's probably a little bit higher there.
Q - `Kevin E. Cassidy, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Okay, great. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question is from `Tristan Gerra, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker) with Baird. Your line is open.
Q - `Tristan Gerra, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker) `
Hi, good afternoon. Could you talk about the expected accretion that you expect for Q1 for both
Aptina, now that the inventory step-up is behind, and also for SANYO?
A - Bernard Gutmann `
So, basically what we have said is that next year we should deliver about – or this year we should
deliver about $0.08 for Aptina, which if you fairly ratably deliver, it's around $0.02 per quarter,
maybe it's a little bit less because you should be able to have a little bit of acceleration towards
the end. SSG, we delivered $0.01, approximately $0.01 in Q4. It is typically seasonally down in that
quarter, so it should be probably around that same level.
Q - `Tristan Gerra, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker) `
Okay. And then, is it fair to assume that your desktop content opportunity with Skylake is similar to
what you're going to get in notebook? Or is it going to be higher?
A - Keith D. Jackson `
The only difference – pardon me. The difference is, we're not looking for share gains in thedesktop market from a share perspective.
Q - `Tristan Gerra, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker) `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question is from Craig Ellis with B. Riley. Your line is open.
Q - `Craig A. Ellis, B. Riley & Co. LLC `
Thanks for taking the question. A couple of clarifications just on some of the key businesses. On
the Aptina business, Keith, with it in the portfolio for a couple quarters now and as you've had a
chance to really go through all of the product lines, how are you feeling about the current
portfolio versus what really fits with ON, longer term? Will there be some mix out? Or do you plan
to keep everything that you've got there?
A - Keith D. Jackson `
There are areas that are being deemphasized, basically areas that are turning into kind of
commodities, the low end of it. But in general, we will be increasing our investments in the
automotive and industrial segments over where they are today. So you can expect the portfolio
to become increasingly automotive and industrial.
Q - `Craig A. Ellis, B. Riley & Co. LLC `
And is that really a statement for this year, or more calendar '16?
A - Keith D. Jackson `
That's a statement, even for this year, although we'll still have some pretty good content in the
consumer areas this year as well.
Q - `Craig A. Ellis, B. Riley & Co. LLC `
Okay. The other end-market question is a follow up to the comments on pricing in PCs, and
walking away from some aggressive pricing. One, is that a change in tactics, for ON? And two,
given that there's such a significant share gain in the next-gen Skylake platform, was that not at
play when you were competing for new business? What was the dynamic there?
A - Keith D. Jackson `
There is a portion of that PC business, call it the white-box market if you will, that is pretty much
spot-market performance. And we're very comfortable playing there and watching our margins
as that goes through the seasonality.
Q - `Craig A. Ellis, B. Riley & Co. LLC `
Okay. That makes sense. Lastly, on the margin comments, related to your objectives for this year,
any color on the degree to which you can close the gap, gross in operating versus current
targets?
A - Bernard Gutmann `So basically, closing the gap is, we are not going to increase our operating expenses in any
meaningful way, so that should also help with – the expansion in revenues should also help close
the gap.
Q - `Craig A. Ellis, B. Riley & Co. LLC `
Thanks, guys.
Operator
Your next question is from `Gabriela Borges, Goldman Sachs & Co. with Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
Q - `Gabriela Borges, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Great. Thank you for taking the question, and congrats on the solid results. I want to follow off on
the commentary on strength in order patterns. It seems like that picked up around October and
it's continued into January and February. Maybe you could just compare and contrast how that
compares to what you'd normally see ahead of Chinese New Year. Are there any geographies
that stand out? And maybe then, what that implies for 2Q, maybe whether 2Q could be a little bit
stronger than seasonal as well. Thank you.
A - Keith D. Jackson `
Okay, so, the order patterns we referenced there, in the fourth quarter, we saw a larger-than-
normal drop-off at the end of Q3 in order patterns. So that was bigger than seasonality, primarily
in handsets. And then as we went through Q4 it started picking back up and looking much more
normal. As we get into Q1, we don't see any abnormally down sectors at all. And some – pretty
much seasonal behavior across all the markets. And generally what happens from a Chinese New
Year perspective is, you have kind of moderate performance pre-Chinese New Year's, and then
you get a lot of turns requests just after Chinese New Year . We're obviously not to Chinese New
Year yet, but I can say that the order patterns so far this quarter have been a little stronger than
most first quarters that we've experienced in the past few years.
Q - `Gabriela Borges, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
That's helpful. Thank you. And also a follow-up, if I may, on the wireless charging opportunity. I
believe you mentioned a steep ramp during 2016. To the extent you can comment on the
breadth of your engagements, is it mainly Tier 1's versus others, a little bit of both? And then how
comfortable you feel about your competitive lead in that market? Thanks very much.
A - Keith D. Jackson `
Yes, it's pretty broad. It's Tier 1's, it's large Chinese OEMs, and as we mentioned earlier, it's not
just handsets. It moves into notebook computers and other electronic devices, wearables, et
cetera. So, a lot of activity right now. All of it is in the design win phase. So any kind of production
units frankly can't come off until the second half of this year, and then we expect very broad
adoption in 2016. So, yes, we expect some good growth this year, but I think substantial and
material growth in '16.
Q - `Gabriela Borges, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Great. Thanks very much.
OperatorYour next question is from Chris Caso with Susquehanna Financial Group. Your line is open.
Q - `Christopher Caso, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Yes, thank you. Just a question regarding – a little I guess clarification for Q1. And it does look like
the guidance is a little better than typical seasonal. Is there anything in particular that's driving
that? Or would you say that's fairly even across segments? And then as you increase your
exposure in industrial and automotive, should we expect that to change the seasonal pattern of
your revenue?
A - Keith D. Jackson `
Yeah, it should. And so the markets that are buoying up Q1 are automotive and industrial, and I
would say we're seeing slightly better than normal seasonality in those two areas, and kind of
normal seasonality everywhere else.
Q - `Christopher Caso, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
And then as we, as auto/industrial increases, the percentage of the mix, any guess at this point
what that may, how that may change the seasonality as we go forward?
A - Keith D. Jackson `
Well, obviously it would flatten it out a bit. You're still going to have big quarters in Q2 and Q3, but
what you'll have maybe is a little flatter performance in Q4 and Q1.
Q - `Christopher Caso, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Okay. And just a final follow-up with regard to your cash flow and the availability of cash for
buyback. Can you talk about how much of the cash that you have now is onshore and available for
buyback? And then I guess, as you go forward if you're talking about this sort of $300 million to
$400 million in free cash flow, how much of that is onshore that becomes available for buying
back stock?
A - Bernard Gutmann `
Yeah. So we have approximately 50% of our cash, a little bit more maybe than 50% of our cash
onshore, and the generation is probably skewed a little bit more towards offshore, but we do
have mechanisms of bringing it in that are tax effective, so it shouldn't be a problem.
Q - `Christopher Caso, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question is from Chris Danely with Citigroup. Your line is open.
Q - `Shaon I. Baqui, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker) `
Hey, good afternoon, guys. This is Shaon Baqui calling in for Chris. Nice job on the quarterly
execution. I guess I just wanted to ask more of a broad question on the overall environment.
Where do you guys see yourselves now versus maybe a quarter ago? And are we back to where
we were a year ago where it's kind of a normal, seasonal-type environment?A - Keith D. Jackson `
Yeah. The end markets, like I mentioned earlier, are looking much more seasonal than they were
at the end of Q3 and beginning of Q4. We're seeing a little better, perhaps, than seasonal in
automotive and industrial, but pretty much everything else is going to look very seasonal.
Q - `Shaon I. Baqui, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker) `
Okay. And just as a follow-up, I wanted to ask about your expectations on the SSG unit this year.
Do you think you can get it to grow again this year, or do you see it kind of flat lining with kind of
the rate what it was last year?
A - Keith D. Jackson `
I would see some growth this year, without question. We've got some great design wins in some
markets that should see some traction. Not as much growth as the rest of the corporation, but
return to growth in '15.
Q - `Shaon I. Baqui, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker) `
Okay, thanks.
Operator
Your next question is from Vijay Rakesh with Sterne Agee. Your line is open.
Q - `Vijay R. Rakesh, Sterne, Agee & Leach, Inc. `
Hi, guys. I'm just looking at the gross margin, you said 50% drop through. How should I look at
gross margin as we go through the overall margins?
A - Bernard Gutmann `
Again, it's as I mentioned before. It is a function of how the revenue grows, and the 50% fall-
through added with the gradual mix and some additional synergies, but it's to a big extent, a
function of the top-line growth. And that obviously depends on how it progresses throughout the
year, and I don't have a guidance for Q3 or Q4.
A - Keith D. Jackson `
We won't give guidance quarterly, but our normal patterns would be for good growth in Q2 and
Q3 and then kind of flattish in Q4 and Q1.
Q - `Vijay R. Rakesh, Sterne, Agee & Leach, Inc. `
Got it. And long term, are you still expecting kind of the party, what is the long term gross margin
target there? And a second part there, on the automotive side, I know you mentioned rear-view
cameras coming through. Where are you seeing more traction? Is it the U.S.? Japan? Europe? If
you could give some more color there, thanks.
A - Bernard Gutmann `
So on the gross margin target, we'll be updating everybody in more detail at the Analyst Day in
two weeks.A - Keith D. Jackson `
And on the automotive side, the earliest adopter or adopters, if you will, on the adaptive driver
assistance systems are coming from Europe and Japan. And then the U.S. is a follower, and China
after that.
Q - `Vijay R. Rakesh, Sterne, Agee & Leach, Inc. `
All right, thanks.
Operator
Your next question is from Mike McConnell with Pacific Crest Securities. Your line is open.
Q - `Michael C. McConnell, Pacific Crest Securities LLC `
Thanks. Hi, guys, just two quick ones for me again on wireless charging. Has there been any
impact from Samsung Mobile's decision to shift to Exynos this year on the business? And could
you remind us, looking at your charging platforms, which standards you are linked to in I guess
now two given the merger?
A - Keith D. Jackson `
So on the Samsung thing, I guess those are chipset decisions they make, and they have to decide
whether they're going to have wireless charging or not. And so we really couldn't say anything
customer-specific around that one. Clearly there was a well known chipset platform that wasn't
adopted. But again, we don't know what that is going to do to wireless charging. So I just can't
answer that question whatsoever. The second part of your question? I'm sorry, Mike.
Q - `Michael C. McConnell, Pacific Crest Securities LLC `
It was on the standards. If you could, just remind us what standards your platforms are utilizing on
the wireless charging. I know there isn't a merger, so I think there's two remaining, but if you
could just remind us which standard.
A - Keith D. Jackson `
It's the A4WP standard.
Q - `Michael C. McConnell, Pacific Crest Securities LLC `
Okay, thank you.
A - Keith D. Jackson `
So magnetic resonance.
Operator
Your next question is from `Betsy Van Hees, Wedbush Securities, Inc. with Wedbush Securities. Your line is open.
Q - `Betsy Van Hees, Wedbush Securities, Inc. `
Thanks. Good afternoon and congratulations on a strong quarter and really good guidance. You
mentioned in your prepared remarks, Keith, that you saw strong demand from the sportscamera, which is one of the big drivers for Aptina. Was there anything else that possibly surprised
you on the Aptina business? That's my first question.
A - Keith D. Jackson `
Really positive surprises there have been mostly the momentum they've got with new ADAS
designs in automotive. We were surprised I guess at how far along some of those were and how
quickly they're rolling out.
Q - `Betsy Van Hees, Wedbush Securities, Inc. `
Great, thank you very much. And then wireless charging. You talked about the applications end
markets, smart phones, wearables, PCs, and you talked about 2016 really being the meaningful
revenue growth. I was wondering if you could rank for us how you see those end markets? What's
going to be the most meaningful for you?
A - Keith D. Jackson `
I believe the handsets will ramp first, and then be followed by PCs from a dollar content, and then
wearables. The wearables may actually ramp with more units, but they're going to be lower-
power solutions with lower ASPs.
Q - `Betsy Van Hees, Wedbush Securities, Inc. `
Okay. And then my last question on wireless charging is, I believe with the design – with the
product that you guys have today, you don't have any near-term competition. Is that correct?
There's no one else out there that's competing with you? And also, how long do you think your
competitive advantage will be?
A - Keith D. Jackson `
I'm sure there are several competitors working on things. We haven't seen other things sampled
yet with this standard. But we're not relying on us being the only guy for a long time.
Q - `Betsy Van Hees, Wedbush Securities, Inc. `
All right. Thanks so much for taking my questions and once again, congratulations on the great
results and guidance.
A - Keith D. Jackson `
Thanks.
Operator
Your next question is from Ian Ing with MKM Partners. Your line is open.
Q - `Chris Hsuan, MKM Partners LLC `
Hi, guys. It's actually `Chris Hsuan, MKM Partners LLC for Ian Ing. In prior quarters you guys had a string of ASP declines
of 1% a quarter or less. You guys are now guiding down 2%. Is this a new normal, or does it reflect
annual price declines in standard products?
A - Keith D. Jackson `Normally our Q1 is larger than normal because we get all of the annual contracts that get repriced
in the first quarter of the year by our large industrial and automotive customers, so it typically is
one of the larger ones. But the other contributing factors, as you look at pricing and how we
report those, we've got to look at currency changes et cetera this year.
Q - `Chris Hsuan, MKM Partners LLC `
Got you, thank you. And on your outlook for PC units this year, are you guys still seeing
stabilization and flattish units, just given some of the weakness we've seen from some of these
other PC players out there?
A - Keith D. Jackson `
We think for the year it will be roughly flattish, obviously some slightly different performance
quarter to quarter, but for the year we're looking at something that's very flat.
Q - `Chris Hsuan, MKM Partners LLC `
Got it, thank you.
Operator
Your next question is from Craig Hettenbach with Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.
Q - `Craig M. Hettenbach, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Yes, thank you. I had a question on SSG. Can you provide just a rough breakout in terms of the
exposure today to Japan and outside Japan, and then how you see that maybe shifting over the
next year or two?
A - Bernard Gutmann `
So it has been coming down. It is about now the low 30s, about 30%. We expect that as we focus
on outside-of-Japan markets, it will continue drifting down on a percent basis.
A - Keith D. Jackson `
I don't know if we can give you an exact projection. But certainly based on the design win profiles,
that should move somewhat less than 30% by the end of the year.
Q - `Craig M. Hettenbach, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Got it, thanks. And then as a follow-up on the gross margin, I understand the core business and
revenue drop-through. On the Aptina piece, you have some mix as you change that business a
bit, as well as maybe some manufacturing savings. Can you just talk about Aptina specifically, how
you expect gross margins to trend?
A - Bernard Gutmann `
So, yes. Obviously, we're starting from when we acquired them from a point where they are
lower than the corporate average and we'll be gradually moving it up. I expect some of the
benefits from the synergy of CFA to start showing up in the first half, and the rest will be more
gradual towards the end of the year.
Q - `Craig M. Hettenbach, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `Thanks.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the question-and-answer session. I'll now turn the call back
over to Mr. Agarwal for any closing remarks.
A - Parag Agarwal `
Thank you, Chris. Thanks for joining the call today. Please feel free to contact us with any follow-
up questions. Goodbye.
Operator
This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.