Q4 2018 Earnings Call

Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the ON Semiconductor Fourth Quarter 2018
Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Following
management's prepared remarks, we will have a question-and-answer session and instructions
will be given at that time.
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to your host, `Parag Agarwal, VP-Investor Relations & Corporate Development, VP of Investor
Relations and Corporate Development. Please go ahead.
`Parag Agarwal, VP-Investor Relations & Corporate Development `
Thank you, Hailey. Good morning and thank you for joining ON Semiconductor Corporation's
fourth quarter 2018 quarterly conference call. I'm joined today by Keith Jackson, our President and
CEO; and `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, our CFO. This call is being webcast on the Investor Relations section
of our website at www.ONsemi.com. A replay of this webcast, along with our earning release for
the fourth quarter 2018, will be available on our website approximately one hour following this
conference call, and recorded broadcast will be available for approximately 30 days following this
conference call. The script for today's call and additional information related to our end markets,
business segments, geographies, channels, and share count are also posted on our website.Our earning release in this presentation includes certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to most directly comparable measures
under GAAP are in our earnings release, which is posted separately on our website in the Investor
Relations section.
During the course of this conference call, we will make projections or other forward-looking
statements regarding future events or future financial performance of the company. The words
believe, estimate, project, anticipate, intend, may, expect, will, plan, should, or similar expressions
are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We wish to caution that such statements are
subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from
projections. Important factors which can affect our business, including factors that could cause
actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements, are described in our Form 10-Ks,
Form 10-Qs, and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Additional factors are
described in our earning release for fourth quarter of 2018. Our estimation may change, and
company assumes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect actual results,
changed assumptions, or other factors, except as required by law.
As announced earlier, we will host our 2019 Analyst Day on March 8, in Scottsdale, Arizona. If you
would like to attend the event and haven't received an invitation, please let us know.
Now, let me turn it over to `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer who will provide an overview of fourth quarter 2018
results. Bernard?
`Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Think you, Parag, and thank you, everyone, for joining us today. We delivered yet another quarter
of strong financial results, despite challenging macroeconomic conditions. Key secular drivers
powering our business remain intact and our execution on operations remains solid, as evidenced
by margin performance in several quarters. Our design win pipeline in our strategic markets,
which include automotive, industrial, and cloud-power, continue to grow and we continue to
strengthen our competitive position in those markets. We remain upbeat about the future.
Since our last earnings call in November of last year, we noticed – we have noticed a significant
slowdown in demand from Greater China region. This slowdown further accelerated early this
year when we noticed a sharp slowdown in bookings, especially from the distribution channel.
This deep decline in bookings has reversed course over the last couple of weeks, and we have
seen a modest pickup. Demand from other geographies appears to be in line with seasonality.
Although weakening macroeconomic conditions could pose challenges, based on current
macroeconomic outlook, we expect to continue to grow our revenue and expand our margins in
the current year. Based on our current outlook, we believe that after greater than seasonal
decline in the first quarter of 2019, we should grow sequentially in the second quarter of 2019.
Key megatrends driving growth in our content in automotive, industrial, and cloud-power
applications remain intact, and we expect to continue to benefit from these trends in the
foreseeable future.
Although we remain confident in our outlook, we are managing our business prudently to rapidly
adjust to slowing macroeconomic growth. We are taking measures to control our expenses and
we intend to adjust our working capital in line with our expected revenue. We plan to continue to
expand our margins and grow our free cash flow, despite current macroeconomic slowdown. We
believe that a highly diversified customer base, exposure to the fastest-growing semiconductor
end markets, and long life cycle of many of our products should help us navigate the currentNow, let me provide you additional details on our fourth quarter 2018 results. Total revenue for
the fourth quarter of 2018 was $1.503 billion, an increase of 9% as compared to revenue of $1.37
will billion in the fourth quarter of 2017. Fourth quarter of 2018 revenue included the contribution
of $19 million from ON Semiconductor Aizu, also known as OSA. As we announced in our third
quarter of 2019 earnings call, OSA is our manufacturing joint venture of an 8-inch wafer fab
located in Aizu-Wakamatsu, Japan.
GAAP net income in our fourth quarter was $0.39 per diluted share, as compared to $1.22 in the
fourth quarter of 2017. Non-GAAP net income for the fourth quarter was $0.53 per diluted share,
as compared to $0.39 in the fourth quarter of 2017. GAAP and non-GAAP gross margin for the
fourth quarter was 37.9%. OSA had a negative impact of 50 basis points in our fourth quarter
2018 gross margin.
On GAAP and non-GAAP – on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis, our fourth quarter gross margin
improved by 40 basis points year-over-year. Again, this year-over-year increase was negatively
impacted by 50 basis points by OSA. Another factor negatively impacted our fourth quarter 2018
gross margin on a year-over-year basis has been the rise in certain input costs. Our strong year-
over-year gross margin performance was driven by solid operational execution and by improving
mix.
Our GAAP operating margin for the fourth quarter of 2018 was 14.8%, as compared to 12.2% in
the fourth quarter of 2017. Our GAAP operating margin for the fourth quarter of 2018 was 16.8%,
as compared to 15.3% in the fourth quarter of 2017. Our fourth quarter 2018 non-GAAP operating
margin was impacted negatively by 20 basis points by OSA. On a year-over-year revenue
increase of 9% in the fourth quarter of 2018 and our non-GAAP operating income increased by
20%. This strong operating performance demonstrates the leverage and strength of our
operating model.
GAAP operating expenses for the fourth quarter were $347 million, as compared to $349 million
in the fourth quarter of 2017. Non-GAAP operating expenses for the fourth quarter were $317
million as compared to $305 million in the fourth quarter of 2017. Fourth quarter free cash flow
was $289 million, and operating cash flow was $421 million. For the full year 2018, we generated
free cash flow of $759 million, as compared to $707 million in 2017. Capital expenditures during
the fourth quarter were $132 million, which equates to a capital intensity of 9%. Recall that to
meet increasing demands for products and to mitigate the impact of steep rise in price of raw
wafers, we expect a higher level of capital intensity for the current year.
We exited the fourth quarter of 2018 with cash and cash equivalents of $1.070 billion as compared
to $951 million at the end of the third quarter of 2018. We used $200 million of cash to
repurchase 11.5 million shares of our stock in the fourth quarter. At the end of the fourth quarter,
days of inventory on hand were 120 days, up by 4 days as compared to 116 days in the third
quarter. Distribution inventory in terms of weeks increased quarter-over-quarter in the fourth
quarter but is within our range of 11 to 13 weeks. We expect distribution inventories to remain
within our normal range of 11 to 13 weeks in the near-term.
As we indicated earlier, to mitigate the risk of excessive inventory in the channel, we are
proactively managing inventory in the distribution channel. We have implemented systems to
ensure that distributors can carry more inventory than what is needed to support the 11 to 13
weeks of resales.
Now, let me provide you an update on the performance of our business units, starting with Power
Solutions Group, or PSG. Revenue for PSG for the fourth quarter was $787 million. Revenue for theAnalog Solutions Group for the fourth quarter of 2018 was $530 million. And revenue for the
Intelligence Sensing Group was $186 million.
Now, I would like to turn the call over to Keith Jackson for additional comments on the business
environment. Keith?
`Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, Bernard. The fourth quarter of 2018 was yet another strong quarter for ON
Semiconductor. Despite a meaningful slowdown in demand from the Greater China region, we
delivered strong revenue and margin performance. Though the current macroeconomic outlook
has impacted our near-term outlook, we remain upbeat about our mid to long-term prospects.
We believe that secular trends in our key markets driving our revenue will continue to strengthen
and we expect to outgrow the broader Analog and Power Semiconductor Group in a meaningful
manner. Our design win pipeline in our strategic markets is growing at a strong pace, our
customer engagements are strengthening, and our competitive positioning is improving
significantly.
As I mentioned earlier, key megatrends driving our business continue to strengthen. In the
automotive market, accelerating adoption of electric vehicles and active safety is driving strong
growth in our Power Semiconductor and Sensor businesses. In the industrial markets, we are
seeing steep growth in our Power Semiconductor content, driven by higher power efficiency
requirements for industrial systems. In the cloud-power market, we are seeing robust growth for
our analog power management products for servers and Power Semiconductors for 5G
infrastructure markets.
Before I get into the details of the fourth quarter, let me highlight the business performance for
2018 and lay out priorities for 2019. 2018 was a strong year for ON Semiconductor, and we
delivered solid results on all fronts. Our 2018 revenue, excluding OSA, grew by 9% year over year.
Our 2018 non-GAAP gross margin expanded by 120 basis points year over year. We achieved this
strong gross margin expansion despite significant year-over-year increases in raw material costs
in 2018. Our non-GAAP operating margin expanded by 170 basis points year over year. On year-
over-year non-GAAP revenue increase of 9%, our non-GAAP operating income increased by 22%
in 2018. Our 2018 free cash flow was $759 million, as compared to $707 million in 2017.
We expect to continue to grow in 2019, although headwinds from the slowing macroeconomic
environment will likely impact our growth rate. Customers are increasingly relying on us as a key
provider of leading-edge power semiconductor, analog, and sensing technologies. And we're
working diligently to ensure success of our customers. We intend to grow faster than our analog
and power semiconductor peer group, driven by our strong momentum in automotive, industrial,
and cloud-power markets.
On the margin front, we expect continued expansion in our gross margins in 2019, driven by
ongoing operational improvements and improving mix of automotive, industrial, and cloud-
power-related products. Furthermore, we do not expect incremental headwinds from increases in
raw material costs in 2019. On the operating expense front, we intend to tightly manage our
expenses in light of changing macroeconomic conditions. Our above-industry revenue growth,
coupled with strong margin performance, should result in strong free cash flow generation in
2019. In summary, we intend to deliver solid, all-around performance in 2019.
Now, let me comment on the business environment. Since our last earnings announcement in
November of last year, we have seen continued softening in demand from the Greater Chinamarkets have been especially week in Greater China region. Decline in demand there is further
corroborated by weakening macroeconomic indicators such as GDP, PMI, and export/import data.
As Bernard noted in his remarks, in recent days, we have seen stabilization, followed by a modest
pickup in bookings from the Greater China region. Demand from other geographies is along
historic seasonal trends. We are also experiencing much publicized weakness in global
smartphone market, although our fourth quarter smartphone-related revenue was in line with
expectations.
On the supply side, channel inventories are generally healthy, but based on order patterns, it
appears that distributors in Greater China region are aggressively reducing their inventory. We
expect that softening macroeconomic conditions will have an impact on our near-term growth
outlook. However, based on current macroeconomic outlook and our momentum in industrial,
automotive, and cloud-power markets, we expect to grow at a reasonable pace in 2019.
Now, I'll provide details of the progress in our various end markets for the fourth quarter of 2018.
Revenue for the automotive market in the fourth quarter was $475 million and represented 32%
of our revenue in the fourth quarter. Fourth quarter automotive revenue grew by 9% year over
year. Excluding contribution of $14 million from OSA, our fourth quarter automotive revenue grew
by 5% year over year. We noticed significant weakness in the automotive market in China in the
fourth quarter. Our design win pipeline in the automotive market continues to grow at a solid
pace. We are seeing strong adoption of our products, in vehicle electrification, active safety, and
in various analog power management applications.
Despite a slowdown in the economic growth outlook, we expect to see continuing meaningful
increase in our content in automotive applications. We are seeing strong momentum for our
Power products, especially MOSFETs, traction IGBTs, high-power modules, and gate drivers in
vehicle electrification. We are seeing strong momentum in China EV market with our silicon
carbide and FET products. And we expect many customers to ramp traction inverters with our
Power Semiconductors in the near-term. To capitalize on steep expected growth in China EV
market, we continue to invest in that market.
In other markets, we are seeing significant excitement from customers related to our expanding
silicon carbide and IGBT product portfolio. Momentum for our Sensor products for ADAS and
viewing applications is accelerating and we are meaningfully extending our competitive lead in
that market by a huge margin. According to the latest report by TSR, a leading independent
market research firm, our overall market share in the automotive image sensor market is now
62%, and our share in ADAS segment of automotive imaging market is 81%. Customers are
increasingly relying on us to provide them with leading-edge technologies and complete product
portfolio for automotive imaging applications.
As I've indicated before, we are the only provider of automotive image sensors with a complete
portfolio of 1-megapixel, 2-megapixel, and 8-megapixel image sensors. The breadth of our
portfolio enabled us to secure a major design win with a German automotive OEM for our 2-
megapixel and 8-megapixel image sensors for Level 2 and Level 3 ADAS systems in the fourth
quarter.
On analog power management front, we continue to make progress on our power management
programs for automotive processors. We are engaged with all leading processor providers for
automotive applications. We are also seeing strong traction for our LED drivers and for lighting
applications.Revenue in the first quarter for the automotive end market is expected to be flat to slightly down
quarter-over-quarter, as opposed to seasonably higher sequential revenue. Weaker than
seasonal growth in our automotive business is driven primarily by softness in the Greater China
market.
The industrial end market, which includes military, aerospace, and medical, contributed revenue
of $390 million in fourth quarter. Contribution from OSA to the fourth quarter industrial revenue
was not meaningful. The industrial end market represented 26% of our revenue in the fourth
quarter and grew by 8% year-over-year. We continue to see strong traction for our power
semiconductor products and modules in the industrial end market. For the broad range of
medium and high-voltage power semiconductors and modules, we are well positioned to
capitalize on the secular trend of increased power efficiency requirements for industrial systems.
Despite slowing macroeconomic conditions, demand for our power semiconductors and modules
continues to be strong and our customer engagements continue to expand.
Within industrial, medical was an area of solid strength in the fourth quarter. We're seeing strong
tractions for our products in personal diagnostics and hearing health market. Revenue in the first
quarter for the industrial end market is expected to be flat to slightly down quarter-over-quarter,
as opposed to seasonally higher sequential revenue. Weaker than seasonal growth in our
industrial business is driven primarily by softness in the Greater China market.
The communications end market, which includes both networking and wireless, contributed
revenue of $300 million for the fourth quarter. There was no contribution from OSA toward fourth
quarter of 2018 communications revenue. The communications end market represented 20% of
our revenue in the fourth quarter. Fourth quarter communications revenue increased by 22% year-
over-year.
We are beginning to see strong ramp in our medium-voltage MOSFETs and 5G infrastructure
market. We expect this ramp to accelerate in 2019, as with start of early 5G deployments in a few
parts of the world. Current indications from our customers point to a better than expected rate of
deployment for 5G systems in the near-term. As we with indicated earlier, our power content in
the 5G infrastructure systems is many times that in the 4G systems. Furthermore, our
participation in 5G systems is expected to be significantly higher than our participation in 4G
systems.
On the smartphone front, our revenue in the fourth quarter declined only slightly quarter-over-
quarter, as content increases helped offset decline in units. Revenue in the first quarter for the
communications end market is expected to be down quarter-over-quarter. Revenue decline in
the first quarter will be significantly greater than normal seasonality due to weakness in the global
smartphone market.
The computing end market contributed revenue of $167 million in the fourth quarter. There was
no contribution from OSA toward the fourth quarter 2018 computing revenue. Computing end
market represented 11% of our revenue in the fourth quarter, and the fourth quarter computing
revenue grew by 22% year-over-year. The year-over-year growth was driven primarily by strength
in our server business. We expect strengthened computing to continue in to 2019, although we
expect moderation in capital expenditures by leading cloud service providers. In future
generations of server platforms, we expect meaningful increase in our content. Revenue in the
first quarter for the computing end market is expected to be down quarter-over-quarter due to
normal seasonality and softening macroeconomic conditions.The consumer end market contributed revenue of $171 million in the fourth quarter. The consumer
end market represented 11% of our revenue in the fourth quarter. Excluding contribution of $4.2
million from OSA, fourth quarter 2018 consumer revenue was down 13%, as compared to
consumer revenue in the fourth quarter of 2017. The decline was due to weakness in Greater
China region and our selective participation in certain areas of consumer electronic market.
Revenue in the first quarter for the consumer end market is expected to be down quarter-over-
quarter, primarily due to the continuing weakness in the Greater China region and normal
seasonality.
In summary, we have seen weakness in demand from Greater China region. However, despite
current weakness in the macroeconomic environment, secular megatrends driving our business
remain intact, and we are upbeat about our medium- to long-term prospects. The key driver of
our business is significant content increase in many applications, in automotive, industrial, and
cloud-power end markets, as opposed to underlying unit growth in these end markets. We have
established leadership in highly-differentiated power, analog, and sensor semiconductor
solutions, and we believe that customers are increasingly relying on us as a key provider of
enabling technologies for newly-emerging and disruptive applications in automotive, industrial,
and cloud-power end markets.
To adjust to slowing macro environment, we are prudently managing our business with sharp
focus on expenses and working capital. Our operational execution remains solid. We have
continued to expand our margins and generate strong free cash flow.
Now, I'd like to turn it over back to Bernard for forward-looking guidance. Bernard?
`Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Keith. Based on product booking trends, backlog levels, and estimated turn levels, we
estimate the total ON Semiconductor revenue is expected to be in the range of $1.365 billion to
$1.415 billion in the first quarter of 2019. Included in our first quarter revenue guidance is
approximately $20 million revenue from manufacturing services provided by OSA. As I indicated
earlier, the greater than seasonal decline in the first quarter is primarily driven by weakness in
Greater China region.
Based on our current outlook, assuming no further decline in macroeconomic conditions, we
expect to grow sequentially in the second quarter of 2019. For the first quarter of 2019, we
expect gross margin to be in the range of 36.4% to 37.4%. Our first quarter gross margin
guidance includes the negative impact of 50 basis points from the manufacturing services
provided by OSA. We expect total GAAP operating expenses of $330 million to $348 million. Our
GAAP operating expenses include the amortization of intangibles, restructuring, asset
impairments, and other charges which are expected to be $30 million to $34 million. We expect
total non-GAAP operating expenses of $300 million to $314 million in the first quarter.
We have anticipated first quarter 2019 GAAP net other income and expense, including interest
expense, will be $31 million to $34 million, which includes non-cash interest expense of $9 million
to $10 million. We anticipate our non-GAAP net other income and expense, including interest
expense, will be $22 million to $24 million. Cash paid for income taxes for the first quarter of 2019
is expected to be $16 million to $20 million. We expect total capital expenditures of $170 million to
$180 million in the first quarter of 2019. We expect capital intensity for 2019 to be approximately
9%.
We also expect share-based compensation of $19 million to $21 million in the first quarter of 2019,amount is expected to be in operating expenses. This expense is included in our non-GAAP
financial measures. Our diluted share count for the first quarter of 2019 is expected to be 420
million shares, based on the current stock price. Further details from share count and earnings per
share calculations are provided regularly in our Quarterly and Annual Reports on Form 10-Q and
Form 10-K.
With that, I would like to start the Q&A session. Thank you, and Hailey, please open up the line for
questions.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Our first question comes from Chris Danley of Citigroup. Your
line is now open.
Q - `Christopher Brett Danely, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Hey. Thanks, guys. Can you just talk about the pickup in order rates recently? And then, if you've
talked to the customers and the distis, what's the reasoning they're giving for the recovery in
orders?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
So, again, I don't know if there's a lot to talk about. We saw – in early January, we normally would
see a pickup in orders after decline at the end of December, and it didn't happen. And then, here
in the last week, it did start to pick up again. And really have no more color beyond that.
Q - `Christopher Brett Danely, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Okay, thanks. And for my follow-up, can you just give us your take on what the plans are for
utilization rates and then, how do we get the gross margins up to like 40%?
A - `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
So, the utilization rates in the short term are flattish to slightly down compared to Q4, it's about in
the 80% – low 80s percent. The elements to grow gross margin continue being the same that we
have talked about, the 50% fall-through on incremental revenue, nice and significant help from
the mix in our products, and probably the moderation of the increases in headwinds that we had
from cost increases in 2018 that we do not expect will continue in 2019.
Q - `Christopher Brett Danely, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Okay. Thanks, guys.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Ross Seymore, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. of Deutsche Bank. Your line is now
open.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Hi, guys. Thanks for letting me ask a question. Keith, first one for you. Given the volatility of the
bookings, as you described it week-to-week and month-to-month, what gives you the confidence
to believe you can grow in Q2 and 2019 as a whole?A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Well, certainly, backlog indicates that, at this stage and our design wins, as reported from the
customers and their ramp dates as reported to us, support ramp Q2 and onward this year.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Great. And I guess for my follow-on, one for you on your side, Bernard. The OpEx, you mentioned
about controlling that tightly. In the amount you guided to for the first quarter, is there any one-
time benefits in that or is that kind of the run rate you guys can hold until you get the revenue
growth actually coming back?
A - `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
We do have some permanent cuts. At the same time, our first quarter is also shorter on dates.
So, in that sense, you can call that a little bit of a one-time. But, in the long run, we expect to
continue driving to our 21% target and expect to be gradually getting there.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch of Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Your line is
now open.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thanks for taking my question. Keith, it's interesting that overall sales grew 9% last year, but your
Intelligent Sensing Group sales were kind of flat. I'm curious, what is the autos versus non-autos
exposure in that segment, and what will be needed to make that business grow more in line with
other segments? And when will you see some of the benefits of the ADAS wins you outlined?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, so, the automotive piece continues to grow very significantly, as we have set expectations
for. It's about half of the total number in Intelligent Sensors Group. The flatness that you see
there is really us not participating in some of the low-end security market which declined year
over year.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
I see. And then, in communications, could you also give us a breakdown of handsets versus
infrastructure? And on the 5G side, what kind of content rate are you seeing and is there a way to
quantify how much your 5G exposure can be in 2019?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
So kind of trying to take those as best I can do, about 16% is handsets of sales, 4% is
infrastructure of the 20% total. So it's mostly handsets. From a 5G infrastructure perspective,
obviously, that's small now as it starts to ramp; can be very significant for us. Depending on the
type of 5G installation, it can be anywhere from $10 to $150 or so.Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Shawn Harrison of Longbow Research. Your line is now
open.
Q - `Shawn M. Harrison, Analyst, Longbow Research LLC `
Morning, everybody. Two questions, if I may. Keith, if you look at 2019, just hazarding a guess of
maybe which end markets would you expect to be able to grow year over year versus maybe
ones that would shrink?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
So I would expect automotive and industrial and the cloud-power 5G server piece of the business
to grow very nicely. I would expect that consumer probably will not be growing as nicely. And the
handset business will not grow very much.
Q - `Shawn M. Harrison, Analyst, Longbow Research LLC `
Okay. And then, as my follow-up, Bernard, I think you mentioned looking to kind of work – to
working capital down a little bit, do you have a target either for the entire year in terms of days to
come out or just progress you want to make in the first half of 2019?
A - `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
So as we have historically talked about, we do have some seasonality patterns in free cash flow.
First half is typically lower than the second half, but we expect to grow year over year.
Q - `Shawn M. Harrison, Analyst, Longbow Research LLC `
Grow free cash flow?
A - `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Yes.
Q - `Shawn M. Harrison, Analyst, Longbow Research LLC `
Okay. Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Vijay Rakesh of Mizuho. Your line is open.
Q - `Vijay Raghavan Rakesh, Analyst, Mizuho Securities USA LLC `
Yeah. Hi, thanks, guys. Just looking at the compute side, it looks like it grew pretty nicely at 22%
year on year. Just wondering, as you look into 2019, how do you look at your market share in that
segment, exiting 2018 and exiting 2019? And is your share actually going up on the Cascade
Lake?A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
So we expect to increase share on the server side, because we're very low and growing quite
rapidly. But on the notebook and desktop side, remaining roughly flat where we had significant
share before.
Q - `Vijay Raghavan Rakesh, Analyst, Mizuho Securities USA LLC `
Got it. And on the 5G side, I know you talked about it briefly here, but how do you see growth in
2019 year on year? And what do you think your market share is there, on the 5G side?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
So 5G will grow significantly in the second half. There was very little revenues in 2018, so you
should see double-digit growth. And our presence in 4G was quite low. So for us, the 5G switch
should be very significant.
Q - `Vijay Raghavan Rakesh, Analyst, Mizuho Securities USA LLC `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Kevin Cassidy of Stifel. Your line is now open.
Q - `Kevin Edward Cassidy, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Thanks for taking my question. The pickup you've seen, especially when you pointed to China,
could that be just some ordering ahead of Chinese New Years? Or how does that compare to
past years in front of Chinese New Years?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, no, actually, normally we see bookings and fill come in in January, because basically
December is declining. And so we would normally expect that. We didn't see it a couple of weeks
there early January and it's now returning to something that looks like a more normal pattern.
Q - `Kevin Edward Cassidy, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Okay. Great. And on the content increases you're seeing in servers, both AMD and Intel have
talked about going to a chiplet or a multichip package devices. What changes with the power
control on that?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
That's been out. The control piece doesn't change dramatically, nor does the power content
because it really is a total power determination for the dollars in there.
Q - `Kevin Edward Cassidy, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Okay. Thank you. Congratulations.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Anthony Stoss of Craig-Hallum. Your line is now open.Q - `Anthony J. Stoss, Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC `
Hey, guys. Keith, can you talk about the silicon carbide contribution in Q4 and also how you expect
that to ramp throughout 2019? And a similar follow-up on EVs, in terms of what you expect kind
year over year? Thanks.
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Okay. So silicon carbide itself is still young and ramping for us. We're talking, as I mentioned in the
last call, tens of millions last year ramping to hundreds of millions in the next couple of years. So,
it's still pretty early in that. We did see our first usage in EV automobiles for silicon carbide in both
third and fourth quarters. I'm expecting EV to ramp quite nicely with all of our related products
this year. I don't have an exact growth number, but it is certainly going to be very high double-
digit numbers.
Q - `Anthony J. Stoss, Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC `
Thanks, Keith.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Craig Ellis of B. Riley FBR. Your line is now open.
Q - `Craig A. Ellis, Analyst, B. Riley FBR, Inc. `
Yeah, thanks for taking the question, and congratulations on the strong march in execution. Keith,
this time of the year is typically one where the company would do pricing negotiations and
updates with its long-term customers. Can you give us an update on how that is playing out and
how pricing fared in the fourth quarter?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, so our annual contracts are usually completed, and they show up in our books in the first
quarter here, as you mentioned. Those numbers were better than we've had, quite benign, and
should not be declining – or should not provide a decline in ASP for the first quarter.
Q - `Craig A. Ellis, Analyst, B. Riley FBR, Inc. `
And the follow-up is for Bernard. Bernard, very strong share buyback quarter in the fourth quarter
of $200 million. On a full year basis, share buyback and debt paydown were about equally split.
As we look to 2019, how should we think about your redeployment of free cash flow across those
two parameters? Thank you.
A - `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
So, we'll continue having a balanced approach and definitely will take advantage of these
locations in the market, as it relates to share buybacks.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Harlan Sur, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC of JPMorgan. Your line is now open.
Q - `Harlan Sur, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `Good morning, guys. Thanks for taking my question. On the recent pickup in bookings, the
Greater China bookings, is this more distribution inventory replenishment or are you also seeing a
pickup in resales out of disti as well? Just want to get a sense if this is more replenishment or you
guys are actually seeing the demand pull through as well?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
We don't have exact data from distribution, as you might guess. But my – the pattern would
suggest they run low on certain items and just need them for consumption.
Q - `Harlan Sur, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Got it. And then, we just got the SIA data for the month of December, and the power transistor
segment of the market was down only 3.5% sequentially, it was up 11% year-over-year. This is
significantly better than the overall semiconductor industry. And I think even within that, power
MOSFETs did even better. So, you guys have a pretty strong portfolio here. Is this all content gain
driven or also a function of just end market exposure?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Clearly, the end markets are valuing higher power efficiency. We've talked about those relative to
cloud, and the communications infrastructure, but also automotive. And so, those are really key
factors for electric vehicles. The mileage you that get on a charge is a key parameter. And so,
they're using not just more MOSFETs, but they're using very high-performance MOSFETs which
drives, from a dollar perspective, good content gain.
Q - `Harlan Sur, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Thanks for the insights.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Tristan Gerra, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. of Baird. Your line is now open.
Q - `Tristan Gerra, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. `
Hi. Good morning. Given the slowdown in end markets like auto, what are the plans to shift
external capacity to your internal fabs, and could you help us quantify how much reduction in
demand can you weather without incurring any underutilization challenges? And also, given this
trend, is it fair to assume that the lead times could come down this first half?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
So, we do have significant flexibility in bringing things inside. We won't bring everything back
inside, but you could see a point or three (40:40) change in the amount of outsourcing that we
do. So, it is a significant amount. Relative to lead times, we do expect, as we go through the first
half of the year, to be able to help somewhat in the lead times. Perhaps not as much in the power
area, but in the non-power area, our capacity equipment deliveries are now coming in and
hopefully we'll see some improvements by midyear.
Q - `Tristan Gerra, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. `
Okay. Great. And then, as my follow-up, how long do you think the Chinese distis are going to be
in a inventory deleveraging mode? You mentioned some stabilization recently, I'm assuming itdoesn't really address the high inventory levels across the board. And also, if you could help us
quantify the slowdown in the China auto market sequentially in Q1, is it fair to assume that this is
going to be down double-digit?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Okay. A lot of questions there. So, on the did I distribution side, I can't imagine them being in a
decline mode much longer than the first quarter because they still have to service their
customers, there's lots of reasons they might be doing it, but their demand is not off that far.
Relative to autos, they are weak in China, as all of us know. I don't expect double-digits in the first
quarter, though. Our backlog, again, is a little weaker than normally seasonal for Q1, but not much.
Q - `Tristan Gerra, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. `
Great. Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Rajvindra Gill of Needham & Company. Your line is now
open.
Q - `Rajvindra S. Gill, Analyst, Needham & Company, LLC `
Yes. Thank you, and congrats on solid results in light of this volatility. A question on the
automotive as well. I was wondering if you could maybe break out your exposure of auto across
China, Europe, and the U.S.? And also, with respect to Europe, are you seeing kind of a rebuilding
by the Europe automotive OEMs after they have transitioned to the new emission standard, and
how does that effect that part of the business?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
So, our market is basically ranked: Europe is our largest market, U.S. second, and China third. And
we're not seeing anything significant in Europe, they're still kind of flattish at this stage. And
China's just slightly down.
Q - `Rajvindra S. Gill, Analyst, Needham & Company, LLC `
Great. For my follow-up on the sensor side, the Sensor segment was kind of flat last year, mainly
because of the non-automotive – you mentioned automotive being about half of the sensor
business. Wondering if you could give us a sense of how the auto sensor business grew last year,
if you have those details? And what are the other segments that make up that Image Sensor
business, outside of auto?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
So, auto grew nearly 20% year-on-year. The other segments are consumer, think things like drone
usage and home camera usage. And then, the other piece is industrial, which had a very strong
segment in machine vision, et cetera. But has some security portions that were not quite as
strong.
Q - `Rajvindra S. Gill, Analyst, Needham & Company, LLC `
Great. Thank you.Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from John Pitzer of Credit Suisse. Your line is now open.
Q - `John William Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
Yeah. Good morning, guys. Thanks for letting me ask questions and congratulations on the strong
results. Keith, it sounds like the pricing environment for you is still holding up fairly well. I'm just
kind of curious, Bernard, can you help quantify the headwinds you guys saw on the cost side in
calendar year 2018? And as we go throughout calendar year 2019, either because demand's a
little bit weaker and supply is kind of freeing up a little bit and/or because you guys are spending
on CAPEX to try to offset some of these headwinds, what kind of tailwinds on the cost side could
you see this year?
A - `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
So, it's – we don't have a precise number, but we think it was a fairly meaningful number that
affected us in 2018, maybe somewhere around 50 basis points. And we should recover some of
that in 2019 with the combination of the pricing and less headwinds on this front.
Q - `John William Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
That's helpful. And then, Keith, relative to your commentary for Q2 sequential growth and full-
year growth, I'm just kind of curious, you have to go above seasonal every quarter this year to get
to sort of some top line growth for the full year. Do you see that mostly as a second half
phenomenon or do you think we'll start to see evidence of that in Q2? And I think as – per an
earlier question, what bottoms-up markets do you feel like you're most best-positioned to see
outsize of growth?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, I think outsize growth in 5G infrastructure starting in Q3 would be above seasonal – above
normal. We think that the slowdown in some of the server purchases will also pick up about that
time, so those two markets should be significant. The new automobile models start ramping in
Q3, and we think the content goes up quite significantly. So, simple answer to your question is, I
do think Q3 will be more outsized from a content perspective, significantly outsized. Q2, will it be
outsized or yet – more or not? It's a little too early for me to tell, but certainly, backlog indicates
some good growth in Q2.
Q - `John William Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
Helpful. Thank you, guys.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Ambrish Srivastava, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States) of BMO. Your line is now open.
Q - `Ambrish Srivastava, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States) `
Hi, good morning. Thank you. And I apologize if I missed it, you didn't comment on what are your
lead times currently?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `Yeah, they remain extended in the teens. They have not changed significantly.
Q - `Ambrish Srivastava, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States) `
Okay. All right. Thank you. My follow-up is just trying to tie up all your comments about order
trends, your guidance, and then second quarter. Can you just throw in or enlighten us what are
cancellations doing that gives you confidence that Q2 should recover? And also, are the LTAs
helping on that front that you signed, which I think is different than the past several cycles where
you now have a lot – should have a lot more visibility?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, the LTA's definitely providing stability. The net change that we talked about, pickup in order
rates here toward the end of January reflect, I guess, the absence of cancellations, and we saw
some of the cancellations early in the month. So they seem to be largely behind us.
Q - `Ambrish Srivastava, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States) `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Mark Delanuy (sic) [`Mark Delaney, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC] of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Q - `Mark Delaney, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Yes, good morning, and thanks for taking the question. I had a question on the smartphone
market. Do you guys have a sense about how much inventory there may be at your customers
that you need to work through in the near-term? And then, as you think about that business over
the intermediate to longer-term, based on your discussions with your customers, you think
there's any increasing preference for your smartphone customers to start to focus more on
lower-cost-type models and maybe the content opportunities may not be as much as we had
expected, say, 6 to 12 months ago?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Okay. A lot of questions there. From a content perspective going forward, we're expecting
increases in as they put 5G in the handsets. So that is a nice pickup. And from the 4G systems,
the actual mix of what they plan on making, they don't share with us in advance. So I can't really
comment on their strategies. And then, from an inventory perspective, we're seeing a little
greater than normal downturn here in Q1, which we assume is to address those inventories. But
no indication that that will continue beyond the first quarter.
Q - `Mark Delaney, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Chris Rolland of Susquehanna. Your line is now open.
Q - `Christopher Rolland, Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `Thanks for the question. Perhaps one for you, Keith. So I know content gains are a great driver for
you guys, but more broadly for the power management industry, we've seen probably some
relatively better results here. Do you think something has changed this downcycle? Is it from
consolidation or lack of capacity adds across the industry or perhaps just not that severe of a
downturn this far? What do you think the kind of puts and takes are there?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, I mean, I think capital has come on relatively slowly compared to the content gains for the
last few years. So clearly the industry is very tight on capacity in general. I think that the content
gains, however, as I mentioned earlier, will continue to have some very significant momentum and
much faster than the end unit markets that we support, just based on the power efficiency
requirements and the continued increase in electric vehicles and 5G infrastructure. So I think
you've got a rapidly growing market and you've got relatively constrained supply.
Q - `Christopher Rolland, Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Great. And you guys plan to take control on Aizu by 2020, I believe, but if we move into a pretty
good upcycle here, what are your plans or preferences for capacity adds? Are you – would you
guys rather do internal, external, or more JVs? Do you have a preference?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
I don't know if we have a strong preference for JV versus internal. We look for the most cost-
effective capacity adding that we can get, and we use a combination of outside, inside, and JVs.
So whatever the best deal we can find is where we'll be headed.
Q - `Christopher Rolland, Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Thanks so much, Keith.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Chris Caso, Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. of Raymond James. Your line is now open.
Q - `Chris Caso, Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
Yes. Thank you. Good morning. Just wondered if you could give a little more color on some of the
cancellations that you spoke about at the start of the month. Was that geographically based? I
know that a lot folks have been talking about weakness in China, presume it's there. Was it
broader geographically? And also, anything you say about particular end markets, for example,
some of the handset space we've seen some weakness, or perhaps in your side, a difference
between some of the power components that have longer lead times and some of the other
components, whatever sort of color you can provide.
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, the – most of the weakness is in the smartphone side, which is also mostly in China. From a
build perspective, as you would guess, and so, it does still look mostly like China on that
weakness side, any way you want to slice it. So the rest of the markets seem relatively stable and
their order patterns appear more secure.
Q - `Chris Caso, Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `So basically, those cancellations were isolated to the smartphone side, more or less?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Well, mostly smartphone, but also some of the consumer markets in China, as well.
Q - `Chris Caso, Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
All right. Great. Just as a follow-up then, with regard to distribution, you talked about distribution
inventory increasing in Q4, could you talk about how much? And it sounds like you expect that to
be cleaned up during the first quarter?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
I expect it to be relatively stable in the first quarter. It expanded by a few days in Q4, but nothing
significant.
Q - `Chris Caso, Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
All right. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Craig Hettenbach of Morgan Stanley. Your line is now
open.
Q - `Craig M. Hettenbach, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Yes, thank you. Keith, just a question around lead times in the context of kind of some of the
trends you're seeing. So, even though the business has weakened a bit, you're still looking up
about 1% year-over-year for guidance. If I look at some other analog companies, they're down as
much as high-single-digits to mid-teens and they have shorter lead times. So, anything you're
doing in terms of scrubbing the lead times and kind of matching up versus what you're seeing
from a demand perspective?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
So, we've been working with our distributors for some time to make sure that we are not
basically getting an order pattern for immediate delivery for things they don't need for some
time out. We do that by looking at their lead times and our lead times and trying to get a pipeline.
So, part of the extended lead times is really just a good management of our pipeline of products,
and so, folks have ordered on us basically within the lead times we've given them and they just –
that just keeps rolling forward.
So, I mean, that's certainly company-specific there, but we do expect that, and so, our
understanding is the consumption that you're having in Q1 is really consumption, not a reflection
of major inventory changes, other than the ones we talked about in China.
Q - `Craig M. Hettenbach, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Got it. And then just as a follow-up sense, China, you had seen the weakness first, end of last
year particularly in kind of appliances and industrial. Any thoughts there in terms of how far along
they are and if those markets kind of got hit first? Would you expect them to kind of recover out
of this first as well?A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
We are seeing increased orders in the white good piece, but that's the only piece so far that has
shown any pick up.
Q - `Craig M. Hettenbach, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Okay.
Operator
Thank you. And at this time, ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude our question-and-answer
session for today. I would like to turn the call back to Parag for any closing remarks.
A - `Parag Agarwal, VP-Investor Relations & Corporate Development `
Thank you, everyone, for joining the call today. We look forward to seeing you at our Analyst Day
on March 8 in Scottsdale. Good bye.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the
program and you may now disconnect. Everyone have a great day.