Q4 2019 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the ON Semiconductor Fourth
Quarter 2019 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After the speaker presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator
Instructions) Please be advised that, today's conference may be recorded.
I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, `Parag Agarwal, Vice President of Corporate Development and Investor Relations, Vice
President of Corporate Development and Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.
`Parag Agarwal, Vice President of Corporate Development and Investor Relations `
Thank you, Sydney. Good morning and thank you for joining ON Semiconductor Corporation's
fourth quarter 2019 conference -- quarterly results conference call. I'm joined today by Keith
Jackson, our President and CEO, and `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, our CFO. This call is being webcast on
the Investor Relations section of our website, at www.onsemi.com. A replay of this broadcast,
along with our 2019 fourth quarter earnings release, will be available on our website
approximately one hour following this conference call, and the recorded broadcast will be
available for approximately 30 days following this conference call. The script for today's call and
additional information related to our end-markets, business segments, geographies, channels,
share count, and 2020 fiscal calendar are also posted on our website.Our earnings release and this presentation include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable measures
under GAAP are in our earnings release, which is posted separately on our website in the Investor
Relations section.
During the course of this conference call, we will make projections or other forward-looking
statements regarding future events or the future financial performance of the company. The
words believe, estimate, project, anticipate, intent, may, expect, will, plan, should or similar
expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We wish to caution that such
statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ
materially from projections. Important factors which can affect our business, including factors that
could cause actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements, are described in our
Form 10-Ks, Form 10-Qs and other filings with Securities and Exchange Commission. Additional
factors are described in our earnings release for fourth quarter of 2019.
Our estimates, or other forward-looking statements may change, and the company assumes no
obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changed assumptions,
or other factors, except as required by law.
On August 18, 2020, we will host an event for investment community in New York City to provide
a strategic update on our business. At this event, we will update the investment community on
our business, strategy, and markets. In addition, we will provide information on our manufacturing
consolidation plans and economics of our 300 mm manufacturing strategy. We will send
invitations for the event shortly.
Now, let me turn it over to `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, who will provide an overview of our fourth quarter
2019 results. Bernard?
`Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Parag, and thank you everyone for joining us today. Following stabilization in the third
quarter, we have seen improving business trends in the fourth quarter. Order trends continued to
improve throughout the fourth quarter. We believe that in addition to a normalization of supply
chain, improving demand across most end-markets is driving improved order rates. Based on our
order rates and conversations with customers, we believe that the pace of recovery is moderate,
rather than a sharp upturn in demand. Macroeconomic data from most major economies is
increasingly favorable, and industrial activity is showing signs of modest improvement.
At the same time, we are cognizant of potential risks arising from emerging coronavirus crisis,
and we are diligently monitoring this rapidly evolving situation. Our traction in our key strategic
markets continues to accelerate, and our design-win pipeline continues to grow at a rapid pace.
Our content in fastest growing segments of automotive, industrial, and cloud-power markets
continues to increase. Our customers are adopting our solutions for industrial, automotive, and
cloud-power market at an accelerated rate. We believe that highly diversified customer base,
growing content in fastest growing applications in the semiconductor market, and long life cycle
of many of our products should enable us to continue to outperform most of our peers.
To accelerate our progress towards our gross margin target, we have begun to make structural
changes to our manufacturing footprint. This morning, we announced that we are exploring sale
of our 6 inch fab in Belgium. We will provide updates on financial impact of this action as we firm
up our production transition plans. Keith will further expand on our plans for the Belgium fab later
during this call. Along with making structural changes to improve our gross margin, we areTowards this end, we took limited restructuring actions in the first quarter to reduce our operating
expenses by approximately $25 million per year. We should begin to see nominal impact of this
action in the second quarter of 2020, and full impact should be apparent by fourth quarter of
2020. Now, let me provide you additional details on our fourth quarter 2019 results. Total revenue
for the fourth quarter of 2019 was $1,402 million, a decrease of 7% as compared to revenue of
$1,503 million in the fourth quarter of 2018. The year-over-year decline in revenue was primarily
driven by well-publicized macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, which have affected the overall
semiconductor industry.
GAAP net income for the fourth quarter was $0.14 per diluted share as compared to a net income
of $0.39 in the fourth quarter of 2018. Non-GAAP net income for fourth quarter of 2019 was
$0.30 per diluted share as compared to $0.53 in fourth quarter of 2018. GAAP and non-GAAP
gross margin for fourth quarter of 2019 was 34.6% as compared to 37.9% in fourth quarter of
2018. Fourth quarter gross margin was lower than our expectation due to a combination of certain
transitory mix and operational issues. We had an unexpectedly high demand for our low-margin
product line in our consumer segment during the fourth quarter. We expect this strong demand
to continue in the first quarter as well. We intend to either discontinue this product line or
significantly raise prices after the first quarter.
On the operations front, we had certain facilities related and scrap issues. We expect these
issues will be resolved by end of the first quarter of 2020. In near-term, we expect to see
headwinds from fixed costs to our gross margins. As you are aware, we expanded our
manufacturing capacity in 2018 and '19. However, revenue has lagged our expectation due to
well-understood macroeconomic and geopolitical factors. Therefore, with addition of
manufacturing capacity and lack of revenue growth, we are now facing underutilization charges
and higher depreciation expenses.
We expect revenue growth in 2020 -- with expected revenue growth in 2020, we should be able
to offset the impact from underutilization and depreciation. We expect higher than 50%
incremental gross margin for 2020 starting in the second quarter of the year. Our GAAP
operating margin for the fourth quarter of 2019 was 9.9%, as compared to 14.8% in the fourth
quarter of 2018. Our non-GAAP operating margin for the fourth quarter of 2019 was 12.3%, as
compared to 16.8% in fourth quarter of 2018. The year-over-year decline in operating margin was
largely driven by lower gross margin.
GAAP operating expenses for the fourth quarter were $347 million, flat as compared to those for
the fourth quarter of 2018. Non-GAAP operating expenses for the fourth quarter were $314
million, as compared to $317 million in the fourth quarter of 2018. Recall that our 2019 operating
expenses included more than two quarter of expenses from our acquisition of Quantenna
Communications. The year-over-year decline in fourth quarter operating expenses was driven by
aggressive expense control and zero bonus accrual.
Fourth quarter free cash flow was negative $21 million and operating cash flow was $92 million.
The fourth quarter free cash flow and operating free cash flow were negatively impacted by
onetime payment of approximately $175 million to Power Integrations for previously disclosed
settlement of intellectual property litigation.
Capital expenditures during the fourth quarter were $112 million, which equate to a capital
intensity of 8%. Going forward, we anticipate that a sizeable part of CapEx will be spent on
enabling our 300 millimeter East Fishkill fab. We exited the fourth quarter of 2019 with cash and
cash equivalents of $894 million, as compared to $929 million at the end of the third quarter 2019.At the end of the fourth quarter, days of inventory on hand were 123 days, down by 5 days as
compared to 128 days in the third quarter of 2019. Distribution inventory increased slightly, but is
within our comfort zone. The increase was driven by specific customer programs.
Now let me provide you an update on performance of our business units, starting with Power
Solutions Group, or PSG. Revenue for PSG for the fourth quarter was $696 million. Revenue for
Advanced Solutions Group, previously known as Analog Solutions Group, for the fourth quarter
was $507 million, and revenue for our Intelligent Sensing Group was $199 million.
Now, I would like to turn the call over to Keith Jackson for additional comments on the business
environment. Keith?
`Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director `
Thanks, Bernard. I will start by reviewing our progress in 2019, and then touch on our objectives
for 2020. Despite the macroeconomic and geopolitical challenges faced by the semiconductor
industry in 2019, our execution was solid, and we expect to outperform most of our peers in the
Analog and Power Semiconductor Group.
Our performance in 2019 clearly demonstrates the transforming nature of our business, and
strength of our business model, and execution discipline. Our exposure to secular megatrends in
automotive, industrial, and cloud-power end-markets has enabled us to outgrow most of our
peers. Despite macroeconomic and geopolitical headwinds, key secular megatrends driving our
business remain intact. Our content in the fastest growing applications in automotive, industrial,
and cloud-power power applications continues to grow, and we continue to strengthen our
leadership in key markets such as ADAS, power management for servers and 5G infrastructure,
and high-power solutions for electric vehicles.
We announced our plan to acquire our first 300 millimeter fab, and we expect to start production
of our power products at this facility soon. Also in 2019, we closed our acquisition of Quantenna
Communications, and we are making solid progress toward launching connectivity solutions for
Industrial IoT applications. While we are pleased with our performance in 2019, we understand the
need to take aggressive, substantial, and immediate measures to accelerate our progress
towards our margin targets.
As Bernard indicated earlier, we announced this morning that we are exploring sale of our 6 inch
fab in Belgium. We are looking for partners that are willing to enter into an arrangement on
mutually beneficial terms that enable smooth and orderly transition for both parties. Our fab in
Belgium is an attractive manufacturing asset with robust tool-set and highly skilled workforce. It is
automotive qualified, and its close proximity to world's leading automotive innovation and
manufacturing hub is a very compelling attribute. We believe that our 300 millimeter East Fishkill
fab affords us significant flexibility in optimizing our front-end footprint, and we will continue to
work to improve efficiency of our manufacturing network.
Recall that in our third quarter 2019 earnings conference call, we announced that we had initiated
the process of closing down our six-inch fab in Rochester, New York. We are making strong
progress towards ramping production at our 300 millimeter fab in East Fishkill. At this point, we
are tracking significantly ahead of schedule, and now we expect to begin initial production in
middle of 2020, as compared to our previous expectation to begin in latter half of 2020. The
results and yields of initial wafer runs have been spectacular. Based on our experience thus far
with the East Fishkill fab, we are even more confident that transition of production to this fab will
be a major inflection point for our manufacturing cost structure as we consolidate our frontendnetwork. We will provide further details on the financial impact of our 300 millimeter fab transition
at our Strategic Business Update on August 18th in New York.
In addition to making structural changes to our operational cost structure, we have taken
measures to optimize our operating expenses. As previously discussed, we took limited
restructuring actions to streamline our investments in certain markets, and these actions are
expected to result in annual savings of approximately $25 million. A reduction of approximately
$25 million per year should accelerate our progress towards our target operating expense
intensity of 21%.
Let me now comment on the current business environment. We saw moderate improvement in
our order rates in the fourth quarter and improvement has continued thus far in the current
quarter. We believe that this improvement is driven by improving macroeconomic and geopolitical
conditions, and normalization of supply chain inventories. Macroeconomic data from most
geographies suggests improving GDP outlook and modest improvement in manufacturing
activity. Data from China pointing towards relatively resilient manufacturing activity has been
especially encouraging. Based on publicly available data and inputs from our partners, we believe
that the current inventory levels are in line with our near term demand outlook.
While we are encouraged by near term trends, we are fully aware of risks emerging from
ongoing coronavirus crisis, and we are diligently monitoring this rapidly evolving situation. Despite
the gyrations in macroeconomic and geopolitical environment, we remain focused on our key
strategic markets. At the same time, we are taking substantial measures to make structural
changes to our manufacturing footprint with the goal of expanding our margins and further
improving our industry leading cost structure. We believe that automotive, industrial, and cloud-
power will be fastest growing semiconductor end-markets for next five years. With highly
differentiated portfolio of power, analog, sensor, and connectivity products, we are well
positioned to outgrow the semiconductor industry as we grow our content in the fastest growing
applications in our strategic markets.
Furthermore, with improving operational efficiency, we expect to meaningfully expand our
margins and grow our free cash flow. Now I'll provide details of the progress in our various end-
markets for fourth quarter of 2019. Revenue for the automotive market in the fourth quarter was
$462 million and represented 33% of our revenue in the fourth quarter. Fourth quarter
automotive revenue declined 3% year-over-year. Although our automotive revenue declined year
over year, we continue to see improving trends in the market with ongoing recovery in China. Our
momentum in ADAS and vehicle electrification continues to accelerate.
During the fourth quarter of 2019, we secured design wins for key platforms for ADAS and in-
cabin viewing applications. Our design funnel for ADAS continues to expand at a robust pace. As
we noted in our previous earnings call, we have won 16 of the 17 2-megapixel and 8-megapixel
platforms awarded in 2019 for level-2 and level-3 vehicles. Our LiDAR and radar products are
gaining strong traction. Our design funnel for these products continues to expand at a rapid pace.
We believe that we are enabling democratization of LiDAR with a solid-state solution, which is a
fraction of cost of other existing solutions. Our low cost advantage is enabled by a CMOS based
architecture as opposed to that based on exotic materials. Based on our design win pipeline, we
expect to have leading share with top five global LiDAR module makers.
In addition, customer feedback on our radar solutions has been very positive, and we have
emerged as a key contender for upcoming round of design wins. Based on our engagement with
leading radar Tier-1 integrators, we expect to gain a very meaningful share in this market as next
round of designs are announced.On vehicle electrification front, our engagement for Silicon Carbide modules with major global
automakers continues to grow. We are seeing strong ramp of our IGBT modules for drivetrain of
electric vehicles in Asia and in Europe, and based on our design wins and backlog, we expect
continuing acceleration in this ramp during 2020 and beyond. We are beginning to see ramp in
analog power management for ADAS processors. We are engaged with all leading processor
providers for the automotive ecosystem, and expect strong revenue contribution from this
product line. We expect to see strong growth in our analog power management solutions for
instrument clusters, in-vehicle networking, and advanced lighting.
Revenue in the first quarter of 2020 for the automotive end-market is expected to be up
quarter-over-quarter. The Industrial end-market, which includes military, aerospace, and medical,
contributed revenue of $344 million in the fourth quarter. The Industrial end-market represented
25% of our revenue in the fourth quarter. Year-over-year, our fourth quarter industrial revenue
declined 12%. While macroeconomic data points to moderately improving manufacturing activity,
we haven't seen significant improvement in order activity from our industrial customers. It
appears that industrial customers are still in process of realigning their inventories.
Despite soft end-market conditions, key secular trends driving our business remain intact. We are
seeing strong traction for our Silicon Carbide modules, and we have commenced shipments of
these modules to leading global industrial OEMs.An emerging area of growth for our industrial
business is e-commerce. We have built a strong design win pipeline for our CMOS image sensors
for warehouse automation and delivery robots. We are engaged with the leading e-commerce
retailers on many programs, and we expect strong contribution from this segment of the
industrial market.
Revenue in the first quarter of 2020 for the industrial end-market is expected to be flat to down
slightly quarter-over-quarter. The Communications end-market, which includes both networking
and wireless, contributed revenue of $289 million in the fourth quarter. The communications end-
market represented 21% of our revenue in the fourth quarter. Fourth quarter communications
revenue declined 3% year-over-year. The decline was primarily due to weakness in our
smartphone related business. On quarter-over-quarter basis, we saw strong growth in our
smartphone business in the fourth quarter, but 5G related business was weak as customers
continue to realign their inventories.
Revenue in the first quarter of 2020 for the communications end-market is expected to be down
quarter-over-quarter. The computing end-market contributed revenue of $153 million in the fourth
quarter. The computing end-market represented 11% of our revenue in the fourth quarter. Fourth
quarter computing revenue declined 8% year-over-year. We continue to see strong momentum in
our server related computing business. On s sequential basis, we saw growth in our client
computing business driven by improved supply of Intel processors.
Revenue in the first quarter of 2020 for the computing end-market is expected to be down
slightly quarter-over-quarter. We expect that strength in our server business should help mitigate
the impact of normal seasonality. The consumer end-market contributed revenue of $153 million
in the fourth quarter. The consumer end-market represented 11% of our revenue in the fourth
quarter. Fourth quarter consumer revenue declined by 10% year-over-year. The year-over-year
decline was due to continuing broad-based weakness in consumer electronics. On quarter-over-
quarter basis, revenue for consumer end-market was flat as compared to our expectation of a
decline due to previously discussed unexpected demand for a low margin product line. Revenue
in the first quarter of 2020 for the consumer end-market is expected to be down quarter-over-
quarter.In summary, we are taking substantial actions to make structural changes to our cost model with
the goal of accelerating our progress towards our target financial model. At the same time, we
have accelerated the timeline for production ramp at our 300 millimeter fab, as we now
anticipate that initial production will start in the middle of 2020, as opposed to our prior
expectation of second half of the year. Secular megatrends driving our business remain intact,
and we are upbeat about our medium to long-term prospects. We are focused on the fastest
growing end-markets of semiconductor industry. And with our design wins, we expect that our
content in automotive, industrial, and cloud-power applications will continue to grow. Our
performance in 2019 clearly demonstrates the transforming nature of our business, strength of
our business model, and execution discipline.
Now, I would like to turn it back over to Bernard for forward-looking guidance. Bernard?
`Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Keith. Our guidance for the first quarter of 2020 does not include the impact from
potential supply chain disruption resulting from prevailing coronavirus crises. As we indicated
earlier, we are diligently monitoring the situation, but at this time, we don't have enough
information on potential impact on our business from this rapidly evolving crisis.
Based on product booking trends, backlog levels, and estimated turns levels, we anticipate that
total ON Semiconductor revenue is expected to be in range of $1.355 billion to $1.405 billion in
first quarter of 2020. For first quarter of 2020, we expect GAAP and non-GAAP gross margin
between 33.7% to 34.7%. The quarter-over-quarter decline in first quarter gross margin is driven
primarily by annual contract pricing reset. We expect total GAAP operating expenses of $357
million to $377 million. Our GAAP operating expenses include amortization of intangibles,
restructuring, asset impairments, and other charges, which are expected to be $30 million to $34
million. We expect total non-GAAP operating expenses of $327 million to $343 million in the first
quarter.
The anticipated quarter-over-quarter increase in GAAP and non-GAAP operating expenses is
primarily driven by acceleration of process transfer activity at our 300 millimeter fab, resumption
of variable compensation accrual for 2020, and the end of tactical expense control measures in
fourth quarter of 2019. We anticipate first quarter of 2020 GAAP net other income and expense,
including interest expense, will be $38 million to $41 million, which includes non-cash interest
expense of $9 million to $10 million. We anticipate our non-GAAP net other income and expenses,
including interest expense, will be $29 million to $31 million.
Net cash paid for income taxes in first quarter of 2020 is expected to be $14 million to $18 million.
We expect total capital expenditures of $125 million to $145 million in first quarter of 2020. We are
currently targeting an overwhelming proportion our CapEx for enabling our 300 millimeter fab at
an accelerated pace. We expect our CapEx intensity to subside in the latter half of the current
year. We also expect share-based compensation of $19 million to $21 million in first quarter of
2020, of which approximately $2 million is expected to be in cost of goods sold, and the
remaining amount is expected to be in operating expenses. This expense is included in our non-
GAAP financial measures.
Our GAAP diluted share count for first quarter of 2020 is expected to be 418 million shares, and
our non-GAAP diluted share count is expected to be 413 million shares, based on our current
stock price. Further details on share count and earnings per share calculations are provided
regularly in our quarterly and annual reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K, respectively.With that, I would like to start the Q&A session. Thank you. And Sydney, please open the line for
questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from `Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed with your question.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank `
Hi guys. Thanks. If I may a question. It's good to see the revenue side turn in the corner and I think
that's an important step. But the gross margin side is a big concern for a lot of investors. So
Bernard or Keith, talk a little bit about the greater than 50% incremental fall through going
forward any sort of scale on that. Revenues look like they should be up second quarter year-over-
year, will gross margins take a big step up? And when will some of these fixes really start to be
shown on the gross margin side as you work your way towards that fore handle target that you
have?
A - `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
So a couple of comments. Thank you, Ross. We do expect greater than 50% fall through as
revenue resume normal seasonality pattern seen in the second quarter, as we mentioned in the
call. We also have certain one-off transitionary items that affected us mix wise and factory wise
that we expect to subside by the end of the first quarter and that will also allow us to grow better
than 50% fall through in the second quarter. Also, let me remind you that we have about probably
30 to 40 basis points improvement starting in the second quarter due to the elimination of the
low-margin OSA contract.
So and as we mentioned, we are exploring the sale of our six-inch facility in Belgium, which
eventually will also result in some very nice tailwinds for our gross margin. We are quite confident
about our secular drivers for growth on the top line in automotive, industrial and 5G. So we
expect to see some pretty good resumption of our growth. And furthermore we do feel very
good about how the qualification is going at the 300 millimeter fab which will also be a tailwind as
we move further into '20 and '21.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank `
Thanks for all those details. And I guess is my follow-up moving on to the OpEx side and sticking
with the margin target side. I guess that you were squeezing things tight at the end of 2019 and
some of the variable costs come back into the equation, but it still seems like a pretty big step
up. How should we think about the $25 million of cuts coming out, even with that it still seems like
you're going to be a bit above where most of us had expected to be. So any trajectory and kind
of color on when you can get to that 21% OpEx intensity target will be helpful?
A - `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Well, we have that laid out for 2022. We are still absorbing the Quantenna OpEx, which is higher
than what we had been running so that has been the reason for being higher, definitely taking out
$25 million should help us get closer by the end of 2020, but we should be looking at 2021
before we can get to that 21% level.Q - `Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from `Chris Danley, Citigroup with Citi. Please proceed with your
question.
Q - `Chris Danley, Citigroup `
Thanks guys. Just a couple more questions on gross margins. So how big was the impact of the
low-margin product that kind of ballooned up? And then how big was the facilities and scrap
issues impact and then what exactly were the facilities and scrap issues we had?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director `
So we're not getting into a lot of those details, but I can say that the mix between a like the
underutilization/ depreciation versus the one-off items is about half and half.
Q - `Chris Danley, Citigroup `
Okay. Great. And then on the sale of the Belgium fab. Generally there is a lot of like kind of stuff
like that's associated with doing anything over in Belgium. Is there like a way to work around that
or what sort of the plan on getting through the costs associated with doing something with that
fab?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director `
Yeah. So Chris. We're looking at a similar arrangement that we've made both in Gresham and
East Fishkill, where we find an interested party who will be ramping the facility as we exited and
so that's a sale situation you don't encounter any kind of exit costs that you're referring to.
Q - `Chris Danley, Citigroup `
Got it. Okay. Thanks guys.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Merrill Lynch with Bank of America. Please
proceed with your question.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thanks for taking my question. I had a few on margins as well. First, at what revenue level do you
expect to get back to your historical 36%, 37% gross margins? And do you think getting to those
kind of gross margins is possible in Q2 or Q3 of this year?
A - `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
If you again, if you take the 50% fall through or better than 50% fall through, we should be able
to get back to those levels in the rest of the year for 2020.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `Got it. And so my follow-up, I think you mentioned some contract price reset and Q1, I'm curious
how were those negotiations this year, relative to prior years, because there does appear to be
somewhat of a gross margin hit. And I think one of the challenges we are facing is to try and
discern how much of the gross margin -- Q1 gross margin is because of that contract pricing
versus underutilization trend. So if you could quantify, how much of this Q1 gross margin right
roughly 200 basis point or so below trend, how much of that is because of pricing (inaudible) due
to the underutilization trends? Thank you.
A - `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
So as you know, we have a good amount of our annual contracts for OEM, that are reset once
per year, so we see as a result of that, once per year bigger impact. Our characterization is that
the contract pricing has been pretty normal as compared to historical trends.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
And any impact from underutilization is there a way to quantify that and when will that disappear?
A - `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
We definitely need revenue increases to help us absorb that underutilization. So if we have
normal seasonal patterns, we should see some good recovery in the second quarter and
beyond.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from `Chris Caso, Raymond James with Raymond James. Please proceed
with your question.
Q - `Chris Caso, Raymond James `
Hi, thank you. Good morning. Just to clarify one of the comments that you made regarding the
underutilization charges. What you're saying is that that was one of the contributors to the gross
margins being below what you had expected, I think you said it was about half and half. I just -- I
guess I don't fully understand why underutilization charges would be more than expected, if
revenue came in with slight upside, were there changes in production during the quarter, just
some clarification, please.
A - `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So couple of comments there. One of them is we did also reduced inventories in the
quarter. And the second thing, our mix of external versus internal was not was more a bit more
towards external which hasn't helped us has caused the underutilization to be bigger and that
was based on the mix of products we had the demand for.
Q - `Chris Caso, Raymond James `
Okay. I guess a lot of your struggle with the go forward is kind of understanding growth margin
issue that you saw and that was kind of short-term and transient and gets better as the year goes
pretty much resistant. As you said, the 50% plus incremental gross margins as typically you said inthe past, 50% is what you get just on increasing revenue and better fixed costs absorption. So it
is at some point during the year, some of these transient issues go away and we sort of see a
step-up in gross margins and then you get back to that 50% rate just some clarification around
that?
A - `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. We said that these transitionary items should last Q4 and Q1, and after Q1 the -- for the most
part disappear.
Q - `Chris Caso, Raymond James `
So we should see some degree of step-up as you go into Q2 therefore?
A - `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
That's correct.
Q - `Chris Caso, Raymond James `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from Raji Gill with Needham and Company. Please
proceed with your question.
Q - `Rajvindra Gill, Needham and Company `
Yes, thank you. If we kind of look past the temporary impacts to gross margins and kind of look to
some of the margin tailwinds that could occur in your business. Can you discuss in terms of the
impact of qualifying to the 300 millimeter fab? How much kind of cost benefit increase in
utilization rate, you think you'll get as you start to transition more process flows to that 300
millimeter fab? And any color in terms of the sale of the six-inch facility in Belgium what that will
do in terms of COGS? What percentage of that manufacturing is of your internal manufacturing?
Just, any color there in terms of trying to wave the importance of that.
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director `
Yeah. I gave you kind of directionally the impacts which you're referring to will give the specific
models in August, when we're ready to do that. The 300 millimeter factory as we mentioned is
going to allow us to get some very cost-effective products to the market. We expect to see
some nice and quick ramp there. So back to Bernard's comment on more than 50% fall through,
we think that's a strong contributor to that in the second half of the year.
It also enables us to do more in-sourcing in the factory rationalizations, selling of the Belgium
factory also will contribute to that. We are not going to give specific numbers at this time, but all
of those are factors that give us confidence in a much better than 50% fall through as you go
through the year.
Q - `Rajvindra Gill, Needham and Company `
And just to follow-up on the margins again and you might have touched on this but how low is the
gross margin percentage for those consumer products and any color what those products were?A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director `
We are not going to get into details by product line, but definitely we're substantially below the
corporate average.
Q - `Rajvindra Gill, Needham and Company `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from `Vijay Rakesh, Mizuho with Mizuho. Please proceed with
your question.
Q - `Vijay Rakesh, Mizuho `
Hi guys. Just following up on gross margin again. I know you talked about lowering inventories
through the quarter but also looks like year-on-year also it was a headwind in terms of utilization.
But just wondering in the past, you have given utilization numbers, if you had some thoughts on
where utilizations were in Q4 where do you expect in Q1 and how we expect that to progress?
A - `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
So in general terms, we expect flattish utilization in Q1.
Q - `Vijay Rakesh, Mizuho `
Got it. And on the industrial side, you've mentioned there's still some realignment of inventory
going on. How do you -- do you expect that alignment to be mostly done as you go through Q1
you expect industrial to kind of return to some sort of growth in the back half? Thanks.
A - `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
We think so, we don't know for sure. But our expectation is by the second quarter and definitely
by the back half of the year it should be done.
Q - `Vijay Rakesh, Mizuho `
Thanks.
Operator
Thank you. ( Operator Instructions ) And our next question comes from `Christopher Rolland, Susquehanna with
Susquehanna. Please proceed with your question.
Q - `Christopher Rolland, Susquehanna `
Hey guys, thanks for the question. About the consumer product again, what were the dynamics
for the product? Was this a last time buy or are you kind of expecting more after Q1? And the
reason I ask is, it ties into the bigger picture story for ON, for the last decade you guys have been
talking about moving up the value stack with your products, and the gross margins would follow.
This seems like it's a product that was probably not price optimized considering at volume, if
that's not the margin profile that you want. So I guess, are there opportunities to review your
entire product line, to optimize pricing and eventually help the margin structure or even shutter
some of these really low margin businesses? Thanks.A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director `
Yeah. Thank you. So really the story there, you've seen the weakness in industrial, which is our
highest margin businesses is in the company. At the same time, we had unexpected strength in a
consumer segment. It is a segment that we were controlling pretty tightly, but we had some very
strong demand for both Q4 and Q1 of 2020 deliveries. We have now taken the steps we need to
dramatically change the profile there and expect to not continue past Q1 from a margin inhibitor.
So we do expect a few get Q2 onward, you'll see continued reduction in the consumer profile
and increase in the industrial.
Q - `Christopher Rolland, Susquehanna `
Okay, great. And on the distributor side of things, I think you said distributor inventories
increased, I think the last update we had was maybe 11 to 13 weeks there. Maybe if you could give
us an update there? And then also you talked about increases from specific customer programs,
maybe you can describe those programs and whether they're related to some of the changes at
TI for example.
A - `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
So in general terms what we said is the inventories increased but we're still within our comfort
zone where we will like to operate. I can't comment definitely on the customer programs, but
they work differently linked, some of the increases were linked to those programs.
Q - `Christopher Rolland, Susquehanna `
Thanks guys.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from `Craig Ellis, B. Riley FBR with FB Riley. Please proceed with your
question.
Q - `Craig Ellis, B. Riley FBR `
Yeah. Thanks for taking the question. It's B. Riley FBR. Bernard, I wanted to go back and take a
longer-term look at gross margin so from the level that we're guided to in the March quarter,
we've got the 900 basis point GAAP to 100% target level. What I'm hoping you can do is just help
characterize the trajectory of getting there. How linear is it towards target? How much that gap is
closed as we go through '20 and '21? And what are the big levers that you have that you have to
move the needle?
A - `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
They are the same that we have enumerated in our Analyst Day the fall through on incremental
revenue definitely plays a significant role and there was definitely a headwind in 2019 and expect
that will resolve itself with better macros in the rest of the planning period. So we expect to get
back into a nice growth rate which will help us get some pretty growth rates. The structural
changes we're making in manufacturing as well as the ramping of the 300 millimeter fab should
help us achieve the 130 or more basis points that will come from manufacturing cost savings.
The secular growth drivers where we are expecting to grow faster in high margin and markets is
also a contributing factor that should be fairly gradual over time. Again, as we mentioned in theexpect the mix to continue being a significant contributing factor. So -- and we will continue doing
the portfolio managing which has allowed us to divest consulting businesses that will continue
helping us on that front. So it's the same ones that we have talked about. It will definitely take us
a good amount of revenue growth. It will take us to execute at our manufacturing cost savings,
including the 300 millimeter fab and the mix.
Q - `Craig Ellis, B. Riley FBR `
But just to clarify that the drivers are the same, but the gap is much more significant than it was
when the target was first established. So which of those variables do you think you can get
incremental leverage on so that we can close that gap and make it to 43%?
A - `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
I think there is a good chance that we can -- that we can do more on the manufacturing front. We
have a good amount of tools that we can do and flexibility with the new capacity we have for 300
millimeter. But definitely we need the revenue and that the target more was predicated on the
5% CAGR. And we started 2019 with a negative so that definitely puts a little bit of pressure on in
terms of getting it done in the timing that we need.
Q - `Craig Ellis, B. Riley FBR `
That's helpful. And then the follow-up for Keith. Keith, we're seeing good automotive growth
since the second quarter of last year. Is your sense that we're on a sustainable growth trajectory?
And then switching gears on industrial, it seems like that business has continued to ease down,
no surprise maybe given global IFMs but is your sense that industrial set a bottom here in the
March quarter or do you think there's some further risk just given the different dynamics that you
see and to the extent that it is the bottom what kind of recovery trajectory do you see in
industrial?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director `
Yeah. I'll cover both automotive and industrial. The automotive piece, I think there is a feeling that
we may see a return to more positive there. I think a lot of the dynamics is going to be
accelerating more of the vehicle electrification at faster rates than we've seen in the past, which
has a very large increase in our content which gets us pretty excited about seeing a lot of good
growth in automotive as we go through 2020.
The industrial side has been weak and it is generally the portion of the business that reflects kind
of the GDP side of the equation. We do see that bottoming out, we're starting to see order
patterns pick up and like all of the sectors the inventory piece appears to be getting back in
control. So, I would expect to see the industrial side start picking up again in the second quarter.
Q - `Craig Ellis, B. Riley FBR `
Great Thanks, Keith.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from `Mark Lipacis, Jeffries with Jeffries. Please proceed with
your question.
Q - `Mark Lipacis, Jeffries `Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. Just going back to the strong demand for the lower gross
margin products. So the options sound like it either discontinue or increase the ASPs. I just wanted
to explore that. So, in the process -- if the decision has made to discontinue, is that because the
lower gross margin products also are lower operating margin products, also, is it total lower
profitability and you just want to get out of that business would that be the rationale? And if you
decided to discontinue, would that hit your utilization rates and then cause a continued challenge
for fixed costs absorption or are these outsourced products? That's the first question.
A - `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
So I would say the answer is yes, this is both gross margin and operating margins in terms of
phone definitely raising prices helps significantly and it is outsourced.
Q - `Mark Lipacis, Jeffries `
Okay, got you. That makes sense. Okay. And then on the -- Keith you mentioned of resilient
manufacturing activity in China. Is this with their particular end markets there? And do you have a
sense of to the extent this is due to a restocking further downstream or a -- if you got any read
that this is real end market consumption that's happening? Thanks. That's all I had.
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director `
Yeah. No, this is broad based in China. And I think it's reflecting the inventories being back in line
and still seeing economic growth in China. So I think it's just basically are moving some of the
headwinds there in this pretty broad base.
Q - `Mark Lipacis, Jeffries `
That's very helpful. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from `Harlan Sur, JP Morgan with JP Morgan. Please proceed with
your question.
Q - `Harlan Sur, JP Morgan `
Good morning, and thanks for taking my question. On the improving business strengths, could
you just describe then by geography. Last quarter, I think you guys saw some improvements in
auto in China, continued weakness in EMEA stabilization in U.S. Could you guys see the demand
profile by geo sector, broaden out in Q4 and here in Q1?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director `
So not a lot of change, some incremental weakness in Europe, incremental strength in China in
the U.S. and the rest of the world pretty much on par with what we saw in early Q3 and Q4.
Q - `Harlan Sur, JP Morgan `
Great. Thanks for that. And Bernard, on the higher OpEx space starting the year, combined with
the restructuring actions announced today, how should we think about the progression of OpEx
as the year unfolds?
A - `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `Yeah. So I would expect OpEx to be definitely not higher than Q1 and flat trending towards slightly
down.
Q - `Harlan Sur, JP Morgan `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from `Ambrish Srivastava, BMO with BMO. Please proceed with
your question. Ambrish, if your line is on mute, please unmute. And our next question comes from
`David O'Connor, Exane BNP Paribas with Exane BNP Paribas. Please proceed with your question.
Q - `David O'Connor, Exane BNP Paribas
Great. Good morning. Thanks for taking my question. Maybe if you could go back to the 200
millimeter, the East Fishkill, the initial production there seems now mid-2020, we pull that in a bit.
How aggressively, Keith will you ramp East Fishkill? And what type of products are driving the
initial ramp there? And maybe then related to that Bernard can you remind us, how much of the
business is outsourced today and how much of that could be in sourced as you ramp East Fishkill?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director `
Yeah. The -- our 300 millimeter ramp will be driven largely by medium-voltage MOSFETs, where
we see a great deal of demand pick-up in our automotive designs for vehicles of all sorts actually
and in the industrial sector across all the segments. So it is one of the high-growth areas and
we're seeing good demand pick-up in the order patterns and so that will be the first product to
ramp in 300 millimeter.
A - `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
So, and the external utilization, our model, we like to do 80 inside, 20 outside, right now
particularly for the front end, we're more in the middle 60s out sourced -- in sourced and middle
30s, outsourced.
Q - `David O'Connor, Exane BNP Paribas
Very hopeful. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from `Mark Delaney, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs. Please
proceed with your question.
Q - `Mark Delaney, Goldman Sachs `
Yes, good morning. Thanks for taking the question. I was hoping to understand of the $26 million
of synergies that were supposed to be taken out of the Quantenna COGS and OpEx. How much
of that has been realized so far? And if you touch on the OpEx synergies in particular from
Quantenna have those been realized? And then related to that, let me also my second question
now. The new $25 million OpEx reduction plan that was announced, is that entirely separate from
the Quantenna synergies or some of that capture the Quantenna synergies that were previously
anticipated? Thank you.A - `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
So they are completely separate programs, one has nothing to do with the other. I would say on
the Quantenna, a good portion -- a good sizable portion of the OpEx has already been realized
and we should see a little bit dribs or drabs still coming into the 2020. But for the most part it's all
done. And the other one will be all incremental.
Q - `Mark Delaney, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from `Tristan Gerra, Baird with Baird. Please proceed with your
question.
Q - `Tristan Gerra, Baird `
Hi, good morning. I know your guidance does not include any impact from the coronavirus. But
could you provide some color on what you're seeing so far in terms of factory shutdowns, at
some of the OEMs and whether there's a risk that there could be some inventory hoarding? And
is some of this potentially benefiting your Q1 revenue outlook, if you could provide any color on
what you're seeing understanding it's still very early in the process?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director `
Yeah. It's developed rapidly and the changes have been quite quick. We don't think there was
opportunities for any inventory hoarding, prior to any actions going on in China. What we have
seen is a request in China for factories to remain shut down after Chinese New Year and longer
than they normally would be, it looks like it's approximately a week. And of course, there is some
capacity slack in the system as we've been talking about utilizations are not full. So we anticipate
most people will be looking to recover that extra shutdown during the first quarter. So at this
stage really don't have much more visibility than that, but it doesn't look like it will be significant
impact at least based on today's data.
Q - `Tristan Gerra, Baird `
Okay. Great. And then sorry if I missed it, did you mention what percentage of capacity will be
removed from the fab in Belgium.
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director `
We didn't -- no, we didn't have a number yet.
Q - `Tristan Gerra, Baird `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from `Gary Mobley, Wells Fargo Securities with Wells Fargo Securities. Please
proceed with your question.
Q - `Gary Mobley, Wells Fargo Securities `Hey guys. Thanks for taking my question. And then want to go back to the automotive side of
business. And if I'm not mistaken, in years passed, you've talked about having roughly 7%
automotive sales growth against a flat SAR environment. That appears to be the consensus view
as it relates to auto sales in 2020 so against that backdrop are you confident you can see that
mid to high single digit percent growth in your specific auto sales?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director `
We are. And we think, if we look at the numbers in 2019, it's supported that type of rate. The
comments I made earlier today, though I think there's more acceleration towards the hybrid and
electric vehicles so that might actually get better for us as we go through 2020. So we are
expecting that high single-digit or better this year.
Q - `Gary Mobley, Wells Fargo Securities `
Okay. And already said a follow-up question. Just want to verify for distribution was the selling
greater than the sell outs during the quarter?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director `
Very slightly.
Q - `Gary Mobley, Wells Fargo Securities `
Alright. Thank you, guys.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from `Ambrish Srivastava, BMO with BMO. Please proceed with
your question.
Q - `Ambrish Srivastava, BMO `
Hi, can you hear me guys?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director `
Yes.
A - `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes.
Q - `Ambrish Srivastava, BMO `
Yeah. Sorry about that. I just wanted to get back to gross margin and I'm not sure I caught the
response from an earlier question on the quantification of the 3 different factors. How much of
underutilization also contributed? And then I'm not sure I understood this correctly, are the
undercut charges going to go away as we go into Q3 or there's going to be lagging
underutilization charges in Q3 as well?
A - `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
So what we characterize there as we said about half of the issues were underutilization/
depreciation and half were transitionary one-off items. There is a small lag in terms of the impactof underutilization impact for the quarter. But for the -- and obviously it will depend on how strong
seasonally the second quarter is in terms of the rebound of revenue which will dictate how much
the utilizations will be.
Q - `Ambrish Srivastava, BMO `
Okay. Thank you for that clarification.
Operator
Thank you. And the next question comes from `John Pitzer, Credit Suisse with Credit Suisse. Please proceed with
your question.
Q - `John Pitzer, Credit Suisse `
Yeah, good morning guys. Thanks for me asking a question. Just wanted to follow-up to the
extent that you end up getting out of some businesses in the consumer sector going into the
second quarter, for modeling purposes, is there any way to try to quantify what the impact might
be two revenue going into the June quarter, maybe relative to seasonal?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director `
We're still expecting seasonal or better behavior, as we go through this year. As I mentioned,
we're through -- we think we're through the inventory correction phase. And so you should be
seeing in a relatively stable economic environment. You should be seeing a better performance
this year without those headwinds. And so, we're really not attributing a significant lessening of
that with the consumer business.
Q - `John Pitzer, Credit Suisse `
That's helpful. And then guys probably shouldn't be that important, because it doesn't impact
free cash flow. But Bernard, I'm just kind of curious as you march towards that 40 plus percent
target for gross margins how do we think about depreciation from the December quarter levels?
What does CapEx look like especially as you start to really facilitate and build out East Fishkill?
A - `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
So basically what we've said from the CapEx point of view, we guided for 125 to 145 for the very
short term for the first quarter and said that a good portion of that CapEx is devoted towards the
300 millimeter fab and then we expect that to taper off throughout the year and go to a lower
level in 2021.
At this stage, I would expect CapEx and depreciation to converge and be pretty much aligned.
So, I don't expect any significant amount of increased depreciation on our P&L as we normalize
the CapEx.
Q - `John Pitzer, Credit Suisse `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from `Shawn Harrison, Longbow Research with Longbow Research. Please
proceed with your question.Q - `Shawn Harrison, Longbow Research `
Hi, good morning, and thanks for allowing me a few questions as well. Keith, the commentary on
a return to normal seasonality does that also apply to kind of the 5G infrastructure related portion
of the portfolio?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director `
Yeah. So I think again the comments are similar. I think the inventory absorption piece is on track
to be behind us here in Q1. So, I would expect that to also look much more seasonal. However,
secularly it's going to grow, and so you should see basically no headwinds to the growth as you
get through this year, go through this year.
Q - `Shawn Harrison, Longbow Research `
And then as a follow-up, Bernard, I know, on a dollar basis, the cash tax has not much changed
from the fourth quarter, but it's up on a percentage basis. I just -- maybe any dynamics here in the
March quarter associated with that how it tracks maybe on a percentage basis or dollar basis post
to March quarter?
A - `Bernard Gutmann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So CapEx -- cash CapEx its nature is lumpy. So I would say the Q1 is over then the tax, so
the tax is lumpy. And it is in the $14 million to $18 million range, where Q1 we expect for the year
to be 10% or less as a percent of profit. But again, it is little bit lumpy.
Q - `Shawn Harrison, Longbow Research `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from `Chris Danley, Citigroup with Citi. Please proceed with your
question.
Q - `Chris Danley, Citigroup `
Thanks guys. Just a quick follow-up on the consumer gross margin issue. Did Chinese competition
have anything to do with the gross margins either from Experior or somebody else out there?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director `
No, not at all. This was just a business that we thought was going to decline and then there was a
surprise upside. So it had nothing to do with any new competitive dynamics.
Q - `Chris Danley, Citigroup `
Okay. Thanks, Keith for taking the follow-up.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from `Craig Hettenbach, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Please
proceed with your question.
Q - `Craig Hettenbach, Morgan Stanley `Yes. Thanks. Keith, just thoughts on the end markets for 2020. It sounds like you said kind of
autos high single-digit growth it kind of lead industrial near-term is lagging a bit. But just as you
see over the course of the year kind of puts and takes spot by end-markets?
A - `Keith D. Jackson, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director `
So, on the industrial side, yeah we think it's still lagging right now, primarily the portions of that go
into new factory buildings and new residential buildings that has been kind of a drag piece. The
medical piece within there has been strong and growing quite nicely. We expect that trend will
continue and our (inaudible) piece has been holding up quite well.
So the change that we're looking in the industrial side are twofold. One, we think the energy
infrastructure will be a secular positive. We're seeing more solar installations, wind installations,
we see growth in that, as we go through this year. And then on the building side, hopefully we will
have cleared through all the inventory here in Q1 and you will see a return to normality and from a
seasonality perspective after that.
Q - `Craig Hettenbach, Morgan Stanley `
Thanks.
Operator
Thank you. And I'm not showing any further questions at this time. I will now turn the call back to
`Parag Agarwal, Vice President of Corporate Development and Investor Relations, for any further remarks.
A - `Parag Agarwal, Vice President of Corporate Development and Investor Relations `
Thank you everyone for joining the call today. We hope to see you at various conferences during
the quarter. Good bye.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may
now disconnect.