Q4 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning. My name is Rob, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would
like to welcome everyone to the onsemi Fourth Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. All lines
have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there
will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions). Thank you.
`Parag Agarwal, Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate Development, Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Development, you may begin
your conference.
`Parag Agarwal, Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate Development `
Thank you, Rob. Good morning, and thank you for joining onsemi's fourth quarter '21 quarterly
results conference call. I'm joined today by `Hassane El-Khoury, President and Chief Executive Officer, our President and CEO; and Thad
Trent, our CFO.
This call is being webcast on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.onsemi.com. A
replay of this webcast, along with our 2021 fourth quarter earnings release, will be available on
our website approximately one hour following this conference call, and the recorded webcast will
be available for approximately 30 days following this conference call.
Additional information related to our end markets, business segments, geographies, channels,
share count, and 2022 fiscal calendar, is posted on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Our earnings release and this presentation includes certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly-comparable measuresunder GAAP are included in our earnings release, which is posted separately on our website in
the Investor Relations section.
During the course of this conference call, we'll make projections or other forward-looking
statements regarding future events or the future financial performance of the company. The
words believe, estimate, project, anticipate, intend, may, expect, will, plan, should or similar
expressions, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We wish to caution that such
statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ
materially from projections.
Important factors that can affect our business, including factors that could cause actual results to
differ from our forward-looking statements, are described in our most recent Form 10-Ks, Form
10-Qs and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Additional factors are
described in our earnings release for the fourth quarter of 2021. Our estimates or other forward-
looking statements may change and the company assumes no obligation to update forward-
looking statements to reflect actual results, changed assumptions or other events that may occur
except as required by law.
Now, let me turn it over to Hassane. Hassane?
`Hassane El-Khoury, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Parag, and thank you everyone for joining us today.
As we wrap up 2021, I'm extremely pleased with the progress of our transformation journey. We
have positioned onsemi as a leader in intelligent power and sensing by focusing on enabling
sustainable ecosystem. We have implemented structural changes to focus our investments and
resources on the megatrends of vehicle electrification, ADAS, energy infrastructure, and factory
automation, and this is evident by our record financial performance.
As we have shifted to focus on high -- of the high-value markets of automotive and industrial,
post the price-to-value discrepancies and improved manufacturing efficiencies, we have
expanded our margins to achieve the target model ahead of our stated timeline. Our customers
view onsemi as a strategic partner as evident by the execution of multiple long-term supply
agreements, which provide better demand visibility for capacity planning and investments to
support it. To that end, the acquisition of GTAT expands our leadership in silicon carbide and
provides our customers the assurance of supply required to support this rapidly growing market.
Additionally, we are exiting volatile and highly-competitive, non-core businesses and focusing on
profitable growth and sustainable financial performance. In 2021, our revenue increased 28%
while our operating income and free cash flow increased approximately 6X faster, demonstrating
the operating leverage and our model, as we continue on our transformation journey. We had a
successful year amid the ongoing pandemic and supply chain challenges that continue to affect
the market. Our performance has only been possible, thanks to the dedication of our worldwide
teams, and I'd like to take the opportunity to thank them for their hard work.
Moving on to the fourth quarter. Our fourth quarter was yet another example of exceptional
execution by our worldwide teams in a strong demand environment for our market-leading
intelligent Power and Sensing products. Although we met our margin targets ahead of schedule,
we expect that with ongoing mix optimization, the manufacturing consolidation we have begun,
and the continued ramp of new products, we have headroom to further expand our margins over
the coming years.We continue to see strong demand for our products and in 2021, our design win funnel grew over
60% year-over-year, and our new product revenue grew 28% from 2020. This design win
performance, along with long-term supply agreements, have positioned the company for
sustained long-term growth.
The fourth quarter revenue growth was driven by additional capacity coming online from our
investments earlier in the year, and an accelerated focus to free up existing capacity to service
our strategic markets consistent with our stated goal of exiting low-margin non-core products. We
are making selective investments in our internal operations to expand capacity for strategic
products, and at the same time, we are relieving bottlenecks in our internal manufacturing
operations. We have also been successful in securing additional capacity from our external
manufacturing partners.
Long-term, we are qualifying products into 300-millimeter East Fishkill facility to increase the
efficiency of our fab network, while executing our Fab-Liter strategy. This will allow us to further
expand, both the capacity for products in our strategic markets and our gross margin over time,
given the cost benefits. The current supply-demand imbalance in the semiconductor industry will
likely persist through 2022 and continue into 2023.
Based on interactions with our customers and channel partners, we believe that the
semiconductor inventory throughout the supply chain remains low and lead times are stretched
for the industry. The supply constraint is further compounded by accelerating demand for electric
vehicles, ADAS, energy infrastructure and factory automation, and the increase of content in
these applications.
During the fourth quarter, we saw an increase of approximately $600 million in committed
revenue for our silicon carbide products, bringing our current committed revenue to over $2.6
billion through 2024. Over 70% of this committed revenue is for electric vehicle traction
applications with the integrated end-to-end supply chain and market-leading efficiency of our
silicon carbide products as our competitive advantage.
To support this steep growth in our silicon carbide revenue over the next few years, we plan to
more than quadruple the capacity of our substrate operations exiting 2022, and intend on making
substantial investments in expanding our device and module capacity. In 2022, we expect our
silicon carbide revenues to more than double year-over-year as we continue to ramp with our
existing customers and begin shipments to new customers under our LTSAs. We remain on track
to exit 2023 with a silicon carbide run rate of $1 billion per year.
In addition, we continue to make progress on the 200-millimeter silicon carbide development
program that we acquired from GTAT. In January, we received finished, 200-millimeter thick
wafers with device yields meeting our production targets. These wafers were manufactured
using our full capabilities from boards to substrate, all the way through our own fabs.
Our silicon carbide modules are powering the recently announced Mercedes EQXX research
prototype electric vehicle platform, which has a range of 620 miles on a single charge. We
secured this design based on all-around superior performance of our modules across efficiency,
thermal conduction, and switching. This win clearly demonstrates our technical leadership and
end-to-end supply chain capabilities for silicon carbide.
Our focus on power modules for alternative energy applications delivered a 42% year-over-year
growth in our design funnel in 2021. We have signed LTSAs with key players in the solar inverter
market, including the top-two market share leaders. We expect our renewable energy relatedto be a long-term driver for our business as utility scale power plant installations are expected to
grow worldwide to reduce the climate impact of fossil fuel based power plants.
On the Intelligent Sensing front, our automotive imaging revenue grew by more than 20%
quarter-over-quarter and approximately 40% year-over-year, as we continue to see momentum
in advanced safety with new design-wins. With consumer's desire for additional safety features
and an improved driving experience, we are seeing increased penetration of sensing in cars
including image sensors and ultrasonic sensing, at the same time, content per car is growing with
each camera attached to one of our PMICs.
We are also seeing accelerating demand for our imaging products for industrial and factory
automation, in which revenue grew by approximately 10% quarter-over-quarter and 43% year-
over-year. Industrial customers are investing in automation at an increased pace to improve
efficiency and to reduce volatility in operations due to wage inflations and labor shortages,
onshoring, and social distancing mandates. We have leveraged our experience in the automotive
market to offer our industrial customers the rugged, high-resolution and high-image quality
sensors for the most demanding industrial applications.
All of these execution vectors delivered a robust margin performance, exceeding our target
gross margin of 45% significantly at a schedule. This accelerated gross margin expansion was
driven by a strong and accelerated execution in closing price-to-value discrepancy, cost reduction
initiatives, a focused drive on ramping new products, the deliberate intent to shift more capacity
to products for our strategic markets, and operational efficiencies across our manufacturing
footprint, all consistent with the strategy outlined at our Analyst Day.
Along with making operational changes to drive the margin expansion, we are refining our
execution in the channel to ensure that our partners are focused on driving growth in automotive
and industrial end markets, consistent with our strategy.
Throughout the year, our team worked extremely hard to pull in the schedule for engineering and
operations effort, dedicated to margin improvements to offset some increased material costs we
have incurred. We have worked to improve yields and ship more units into the automotive and
industrial end markets which deliver an improved margin profile for our business and help support
more of our customers' demand.
In the fourth quarter, automotive and industrial grew 10% quarter-over-quarter with 63% of our
revenue as compared to 61% in the third quarter, both delivering record quarters of $641 million
and $522 million, respectively.
In a supply-constrained environment, this growth came from the increased units we could ship
and more importantly, from the strategic mix shift away from non-core, low-margin business that
we intended to exit. In 2021, we walked away from $170 million of non-core business with an
average gross margin of 20%.
Now, I will turn the call over to Thad to provide additional details on our financials and guidance.
Thad?
`Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Hassane.
I'll start out with providing an overview of our results for the full year 2021, then step through the
Q4 results and guidance for the first quarter of '22, and wrap up with an update to our long-term2021 was an exceptional year as we transformed the company to drive sustainable performance
and shareholder value. We have pivoted to align our investments to the high-growth megatrends
in automotive and industrial, while implementing structural changes, capturing value for our
differentiated portfolio, and optimizing our manufacturing footprint to increase efficiency and
improve our cost structure. These initiatives are translating into financial results as we achieved
our record annual and quarterly revenue, gross margin, operating margin and cash flow.
Our 2021 revenue was $6.74 billion, increasing 28.3% over 2020. Our automotive business
increased 36% year-over-year and our industrial revenue increased 33% as we continue to see
content gains in each segment, driven by automation, electrification and advanced safety.
Our non-GAAP gross margins for the year improved 770 basis points to 40.4% and we exited the
year exceeding our 45% long-term target in Q4. Since embarking on our transformation journey a
year ago, we've improved our non-GAAP gross margin by 1,080 basis points.
2021 operating income and free cash flow increased approximately 6X faster than revenue with
non-GAAP operating margin improving to 21.9%, while free cash flow increased to $1.3 billion, or
20% of revenue.
While we have had significant achievements over the last year, we were excited about the
opportunities in front of us. Our design win funnel for Intelligent Power and Sensing is expanding
at a rapid rate and we are securing additional capacity to support our growth from external
partners and with selective internal investments for strategic products.
From a margin perspective, we expect mix optimization and our Fab-Liter strategy to drive further
expansions. Our longer term supply agreements are providing increased visibility for revenue
growth, and we are confident that the structural changes and decisions we made last year have
solidified our baseline to allow for sustainable margin expansion over the long-term.
Consistent with our Fab-Liter strategy, we have taken the first steps towards rationalizing our
manufacturing footprint by entering into a definitive agreement for the sale of our 6-inch fab in
Belgium. This transaction provides our employees with continued employment and growth
opportunities, while allowing onsemi to transition product to other manufacturing site in an
orderly manner. By transitioning production to more efficient fabs within our network, we'll
eliminate fixed cost and lower unit cost while ensuring a consistent supply of products to our
customers. We expect to close this divestiture in the first quarter of 2022 and the savings will be
realized over one to three years as we exit the Belgium site.
Turning to the results for the fourth quarter. As I noted, Q4 was another quarter of record results.
Total revenue for the fourth quarter was $1.85 billion, an increase of 28% over the fourth quarter
of 2020, and 6% quarter-over-quarter. The sequential increase in revenue was driven by units
shipped increasing 5.7% sequentially and favorable mix and pricing across all end markets.
Revenue from both Intelligent Power and Intelligent Sensing was at record levels, while revenue
from our strategic end markets of automotive and industrial, increased sequentially 11% and 9%,
respectively. Auto and industrial was 63% of total revenue as compared to 59% in the fourth
quarter of 2020.
Turning to the business units. Revenue for the Power Solutions Group, or PSG, was $953.4 million,
an increase of 33% year-over-year. Revenue for the Advanced Solutions Group, or ASG, was
$647.3 million, an increase of 24% year-over-year. Revenue for Intelligent Sensing Group, or ISG,
for the fourth quarter was $245.4 million, an increase of 18% year-over-year.GAAP gross margin for the fourth quarter was 45.1% and non-GAAP gross margin was 45.2%, a
370-basis-point improvement quarter-over-quarter. The key contributors to our margin expansion
have been favorable mix shift, a higher margin from strategic products, elimination of price-to-
value discrepancies in the portfolio, and improved efficiencies in our manufacturing operations.
Over the last year, we have exited approximately $170 million of non-core revenue at an average
gross margin of 20%, and allocated this capacity to the strategic products with accretive gross
margins. Our factory utilization was 81%, up slightly from the Q3 level of 80%, and we expect
utilization to remain approximately at this level in Q1.
We also achieved record quarterly GAAP and non-GAAP operating margins of 26% and 28.6%,
respectively, in the fourth quarter, again achieving our long-term model. GAAP earnings per share
for the fourth quarter was $0.96 and non-GAAP EPS was $1.09 per diluted share, as compared to
$0.35 in the fourth quarter of 2020, and $0.87 in Q3. We're very proud of our teams for having
achieved the highest ever quarterly EPS reported by the company.
So now let me give you some additional numbers for your models. GAAP operating expenses for
the fourth quarter were $352 million as compared to $330 million in the fourth quarter of 2020.
Non-GAAP operating expenses were $306 million as compared to $292 million in the same
quarter a year ago. Variable compensation, driven by our strong performance, partially offset by
cost optimization measures, contributed to year-over-year increase in operating expenses.
We expect to maintain our non-GAAP operating expenses of approximately 17% of revenue,
consistent with our target model. We intend to offset the impact of wage inflation on operating
expenses through higher efficiency and reallocation of resources to drive growth and margin
expansions.
Our GAAP diluted share count was 445.3 million shares and our non-GAAP diluted share count
was 438.4 million shares. Please note that we have an updated reference table on the Investor
Relations section of our website to assist you with calculating our diluted share count at various
share prices.
Turning to the Q4 balance sheet. Cash and cash equivalents was $1.3 billion after payment of $416
million for the GTAT acquisition in Q4. We had $1.97 billion undrawn on our revolver. Cash from
operations was $627 million and free cash flow was $457 million, or approximately 25% of
revenue. Capital expenditures during the fourth quarter were $169.6 million, which equate to a
capital intensity of 9%. For the for the full year 2021, capital intensity was 6.6%.
As we indicated previously, we are directing a significant portion of our capital expenditures
towards enabling our 300-millimeter capabilities at the East Fishkill fab and the expansion of
silicon carbide capacity. This increase is in line with the higher capital intensity in the near-term, as
mentioned at our Analysts Day.
Accounts receivable was $809 million, resulting is DSO of 40 days. Inventory increased $52 million
sequentially to $1.4 billion, and days of inventory increased 5 days to 124 days. The increase in
inventory was driven primarily by additional build of bridge inventory to support the fab
transitions. Distribution inventory increased $50 million to 7.3 weeks from 6.8 weeks in Q3. This
slight increase was driven by timing of shipments late in the quarter. Weeks of inventory returned
to Q3 levels within the first two weeks of Q1.
Total debt was $3.1 billion and our net leverage is now under 1 time.Turning to guidance for the fourth quarter. A table detailing our GAAP and non-GAAP guidance is
provided in the press release related to our fourth quarter results. Let me now provide you key
elements of our non-GAAP guidance for the fourth quarter.
Based on current market trends and booking levels, we believe demand will outpace supply for
much of 2022 and we continue to work with our strategic customers to ensure long-term,
uninterrupted supply. We continue to increase supply through operational efficiencies, selective
investments and capacity for strategic products, and by working with our external partners to
obtain additional capacity.
Based on current bookings trends' backlog levels, we anticipate that revenue for the first quarter
will be in the range of $1.85 billion to $1.95 billion. We expect non-GAAP gross margins between
45.5% and 47.5%. This includes share-based compensation of $3.4 million. We expect total non-
GAAP operating expenses of $298 million to $313 million, including share-based compensation of
$17.4 million. We anticipate our non-GAAP OIE will be $21 million to $25 million, and this results in
non-GAAP earnings per share in the range of $0.98 to $1.10.
As we have guided in the past, our non-GAAP tax will increase starting in Q1 from our historical
rate of 6% to approximately 17.5% as we have substantially utilized our NOL attributes. This
change accounts for approximately $0.14 of EPS at the midpoint of our guidance for the first
quarter.
We expect total capital expenditures of $150 million to $170 million in the first quarter. As we
indicated at our Analyst Day, our capital intensity in the near-term will be higher as we ramp-up
silicon carbide production and invest in the 300-millimeter capabilities.
Our non-GAAP diluted share count for the first quarter is expected to be approximately 441
million shares.
As I wrap-up, I'd like to shift gears to address our long-term model. Our Q4 non-GAAP gross
margin of 45.2% exceeded our gross margin target ahead of our anticipated timeline through an
acceleration of our expansion initiatives and structural changes. As such, we are raising our 2025
targeted gross margin to 48% to 50%, which will be primarily driven by favorable mix as we
phase out of low-margin non-core products and ramp new products in our strategic end markets.
We'll also continue executing on our Fab-Liter strategy to reduce our fixed cost structure and
overall product costs across the portfolio as we exit subscale fabs over a multi-year period.
To provide a framework for this expansion, we expect 2022 gross margin in the range of 46.5%
to 47.5% based on our visibility today. So our new, long-term, non-GAAP model is as follows:
gross margin of 48% to 50%, OpEx of 17%, and operating income of 31% to 33%, an increase of
300 basis points to 500 basis points over our previous model of 28%.
We believe our early success and our transformation initiatives has positioned onsemi to drive
sustained and long-term revenue growth and margin expansion. These results and outlook are
only possible with the dedication of our worldwide team focused on execution and delivery of
exceptional value for our customers.
With that, I'd like to start the Q&A. I'll turn the call back over to Rob to open the line for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator(Operator Instructions). And your first question comes from the line of `Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank from
Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank `
Good morning, guys. Thanks for letting me ask the question. Congratulations on the results. I
guess, just on the first question over Thad is on the revenue side. You talked a lot about demand
exceeding supply, a lot of good design wins and LTSAs et cetera. I wanted to dive into the things
you're walking away from. I think you said last year you got out of about $170 million of business. It
seems like there's about $600 million more coming. So Thad you gave a good outlook and the
gross margin for the year. I know you're not going to guide revenue every quarter for this year.
But I wondered how that incremental exiting process is going to hit and kind of at what pace we
should be thinking that?
A - `Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Let me start with the second part of your question there on the exit. We've exited $170
million in 2021. So, as we look into '22, we think we will exit more of that in the second half of the
year just based on the environment that we see today. So, we think there's another piece of it. As
we've said, this exit will take three plus years to get out completely of that entire 10% to 15% that
we said we'd exit, but we really think it's backend loaded.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank `
Got it. Thanks for the color on that. And then the gross margin news, I think is the news of the
day, whether it was the quarter, the guide or the long-term model update. So, I just wanted to
understand a little bit more deeply. What was the surprise? Were you guys just conservative back
in August? It wasn't that long ago when you've already hit the target. So, what's going better than
expected? And I think some people might believe that there's some cyclical tailwinds that might
not persist. I know you seem to disagree with that, but a breakdown of what surprised you and
how much is structural, would be helpful?
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, this is Hassane. Look, we had a plan. The plan happened faster than we thought. Obviously,
our plan was tied to a lot of operational efficiencies and the self-help that we've done. We were
able to pull in a lot of it given that the main environment, we were able to much faster shift to our
strategic products. As you saw auto and industrial, which for us, drive a higher margin as part of
the mix shift, have grown sequentially and for the year, and outpaced the growth of the other
markets that we are walking away from to have that capacity to be able to allocate to our
strategic markets.
And of course, we've been on a trajectory of bridging the price-to-value discrepancy. So, we've
been able to close a lot of that mostly to offset our rise in costs. So all of these have been part of
the plan, but the macro allowed us to accelerate them. Because of the demand environment,
we're able to walk away from business and move the capacity to a better mix shift aligned with
our stated strategy.
So that's what accelerated. It's not about conservative. It's about we -- the unknown and the
disruptions that we've been seeing in 2021. But the team pulled together, whether it's from
improved yield that drove more units. All of these are sustainable, because the mix shift is not
related to a market. All markets are up, but we are choosing what to support, aligned with ourlong-term supply agreements and those extend beyond the next few years and that gives us the
visibility and the sustainability of those results.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Danely from Citi. Your line is open.
Q - `Christopher Danely, Citigroup `
Hey. Thanks, guys. Congrats on another good result and guidance. I guess, on the gross margin
guidance going forward, it looks kind of flattish for the time being. Can you just talk about the
puts and the takes, what's going to be pushing those up? And then also, what's going to be
keeping a lid on them, is it material cost or something else?
A - `Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, Chris. This is Thad. There's a number of elements in there and you kind of hit on it. So, we
are expecting additional input costs going up. We have been successful in passing those onto the
customers, but we do expect that happening. As Hassane said in the previous response, we
pulled in a lot of the acceleration of the gross margin initiatives. We think there's more here. I
think, our biggest challenge is, we've gotten a lot of operational efficiencies here and can we just
get more throughput out of our manufacturing footprint. Like, we do see improvement. If you
look at the guidance that's put out for the year, as you see improvements through the year and
obviously with our long-term model of the 48 to 50, we don't think we're done.
Q - `Christopher Danely, Citigroup `
And for my follow-up, can you just be a little more specific on the impact and timing of the Fishkill
fab from, I guess, a margin impact and the capacity impact as well.
A - `Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So, we take ownership in early '23. At that time, we have been running production in there
and we'll continue to increase production in there. And then there is a period of time where we
continue to ramp up and Global Foundries ramps down. So during that time, there's a little bit of a
headwind as we're providing some foundries or as to Global Foundries, until we ramp up see. So
you can think about a little bit of a headwind for a couple of years there. But there is an orderly
transition between the two of them. So that is all baked into long-term plan as well, the long-term
model.
Q - `Christopher Danely, Citigroup `
Got it. Thanks, guys.
Operator
Your next question comes from a line of `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Securities from Bank of America Securities. Your line is
open.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Securities `Thanks for taking my question. Hassane, I'm curious, what's your visibility of inventory of
semiconductor components at auto OEMs and Tier 1s? Just from an industry perspective, right,
there still seems to be a delta between auto production and semiconductor industry shipments.
Is that all a mix or pricing? Just conceptually what are you seeing out there? And what is the right
way to think about the sustainable content delta when we look at the automotive production
improving this year?
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Look, the delta is pretty straightforward. The delta between units shipped in automotive and
semiconductor is purely based on the mix that our customers are building. When -- we've been
throughout 2021 in a supply constraint. We remain in that same supply constraint through 2022
into 2023. So therefore, our customers are doing kind of what we're doing. They're moving
production to their strategic and high-value product line, which for semiconductor, translate into
more content.
You know when you have premium vehicles being built, they historically and even today, have
much higher content to the level of two to three times more content of semiconductors per
vehicle. That's what you see the discrepancy between the two. That's a healthy discrepancy,
because we know -- I've always talked about content being the biggest driver for us regardless
of what the SAAR does. 2021 is exactly that.
Now, you can talk about what the long-term implications of this. I don't see that being any
different. We've always guided automotive being much higher than SAAR and that's related
because electrification is happening. You've seen those announcements from a lot of the OEMs,
where they are doubling down on EVs. That drives much higher content for us in the future than
even it is today. Safety, I talked about more and more sensing going into vehicles and that drives
a lot of our cross-selling as well, between our sensing and our PMICs. So, all of these are driving a
higher growth of semiconductors than your unit growth with SAAR.
So, it's very reasonable of what the results are this year and what we're looking at for 2022. So, I
don't see that as just a short-term thing, because the macro trends extend beyond the next
three years.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Securities `
Got it. And Hassane, for my follow-up, also interested in your views on the silicon carbide
opportunity. So, you gave us a few numbers about the exit run rate and the long-term
agreements you were signing. And where I think investors are trying to get their arms around is,
we heard of a lot of big numbers and pipeline from some of your U.S. competitors, some of the
European competitors. Is this the case of a just a rising tide, so there can be four, five, six
successful suppliers? Is there going to be some kind of differentiation between suppliers?
Because everyone is reporting very a large pipeline. So, I'm curious what is ON differentiation and
does it change your long-term CapEx forecasts? Because I saw that you updated the margin
forecast, but you kept free cash flow forecast the same. Thank you.
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So, let me -- just I want to highlight some difference between what I talk about, and what some of
my peers talk about. I didn't -- I don't talk about funnel or pipeline. I'm talking about committed
revenue, which is the output of the funnel fully yielded, committed revenue is what I labeled it.
That is more certain and more visibility than the game of big numbers of funnel disclosures. I
don't disclose funnel or a pipeline or whatever we want to label it. So, the comments and thenumbers, the big numbers I gave are committed revenue under LTSAs that we are building our
supply chain in order to service, starting at you know we exited 2021 and said we're going to be
more than doubling in 2022. That's where the committed revenue comes in.
Now, as far as what that's going to look like in the industry, look, there's a lot of demand out
there, a lot of investments from our customers going into the silicon carbide for electric vehicles.
Is it going to be six players or so, I don't know. I know we're going to be in the top based on our
investments and based on the results of our technology performance on efficiency. But also,
more importantly, the supply assurance that we're able to give our customers. When you want to
double the revenue and your flagship customers are depending on you, having supply assurance
and controlling rules all the way to wafers, is a competitive advantage and not a lot can claim that.
And I'm happy that we have closed the GTAT and we're performing very well.
We're going to be expanding the GTAT capabilities throughout 2022 in order to support those
committed revenue that I mentioned.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Securities `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from a line of `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs `
Hi. Good morning. Thank you for taking the question and congrats on the strong results. I had two
as well. Curious how you're thinking about full-year '22 revenue growth at this point. I think three
months ago, you had guided us to think about '22 as a year where you guys under-grow the
market, just given some of the dynamics that are ongoing from a portfolio optimization
standpoint. Is that still the case and I ask the question because you guys talked about obviously
the strong design win funnel, the improving supply backdrop. And if we take the midpoint of your
Q1 guidance, Q1 revenue is going to be up 28%. So, curious how you're thinking about the full
year.
A - `Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Toshi, we don't guide for the full year. I'll give you a little bit of a framework to work on
though. We -- one of the previous calls or answers -- questions was around the exit end of the
business that I said will be back half loaded. I think when we look at the full year, taking that into
consideration, we're probably growing around market, maybe slightly above.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs `
Got it. That's helpful. And then as my follow-up on that last point, Thad, the $500 million or so in
revenue that you'll be exiting I guess over the next couple of years, how should we think about
the gross margin profile on that part of the business? I think the 170 that you've already exited,
you talked about a 20% gross margin profile. Should we be thinking about a higher gross margin
profile given the strong market backdrop? Thanks.
A - `Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I did it today. Last quarter, we talked about 100 million that we exited that was at 15%. Now,
that's up to 170 at a combined gross margin of 20%. So, if you think about that incremental 70, it'sabout a 25% gross margin today. So, the next piece that we're going to walk away from is in that
range that's slightly higher, but the challenge is when the market comes back. That's the margin
that's going to drop faster if we continue to maintain that. So, as we exit that, we'll swap that out
for more accretive margins. But today, yes, it's slightly ahead of or slightly above that 25% that I
just talked about.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs `
Got it. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Ramsey from Cowen. Your line is open.
Q - `Joshua Buchalter, Cowen `
Hey, guys. This is Josh Buchalter on behalf of Matt. Thanks for taking my question and congrats on
the results. In the prepared remarks, you gave some helpful color on the unit growth. I was
wondering as we think about the margins, is there anything you can give us to help us understand
how much is being lifted by pricing versus the mix shifts that you previously outlined and
(inaudible) from a pricing, I mean for the overall market. Thank you.
A - `Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So in our prepared remarks, we really kind of broke it down into favorable mix, pricing and
manufacturing optimization in terms of just getting more out and increasing our capacity, reduce
our manufacturing costs. That's really the Pareto if you think about the sequence of what is driving
the gross margin improvement, and that's what we continue to see as we go forward. We think
the favorable mix as we swap out of this low margin non-core business. We focus more on auto
and industrial, which drives a higher gross margin. That's the primary driver of gross margin
expansion and then obviously, the manufacturing footprint going forward will be the next piece.
Q - `Joshua Buchalter, Cowen `
That's helpful. Thank you. And then within your silicon carbide business, the size of your design
wins continue to come in very strong. I was wondering within your broader high-voltage portfolio,
are you also seeing share gains in your IGBTs, which have typically been dominated by some of
your peers over in Europe and Asia. Thank you.
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. This is Hassane. The answer is yes. We are seeing an uptick, obviously the LTSAs or long-
term supply agreement that I mentioned focusing on silicon carbide, we do have long-term
supply agreements or IGBT, those are net increases from our baseline. Therefore, I would
consider those share gain away from some of our peers that have dominated that market. So, we
do see the uptick in both in our LTSAs. So, you can think about it as ramping as well over the next
few years into those LTSAs.
Q - `Joshua Buchalter, Cowen `
Thanks, guys. Congrats, again.
OperatorYour next question comes from the line of `Harsh Kumar, Piper Sandler from Piper Sandler. Your line is open.
Q - `Harsh Kumar, Piper Sandler `
Hey, guys. First of all, congratulations on a very stunning turnaround. Hassane, you've gotten
pretty deep into the silicon carbide market making the acquisition of GTAT. I was curious, with now
the emphasis on silicon carbide on for, call it six to nine months to a year, have there been any
surprises? Whether good ones or bad ones? I'd be curious about your color on it.
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Look, there have been surprising. I would say, the surprises are on the positive side. I -- if you
recall, back in my first earnings, I was very bullish on the company's capabilities on silicon carbide,
which I called a favorable surprise walking in the door. That remains. And I would say, the positive
surprises, number one, our capabilities into quickly getting to the 200-millimeter with the GTAT
acquisition, closing the GTAT acquisition and solidifying our baseline as a full-on silicon carbide
providers to our customer. And more importantly, a very competitive roadmap not just of what
we're providing today, but the customers' reaction to our roadmap conversations that we've had
for the next five years or so.
All of these have been very favorable that gets me very bullish about our silicon carbide and
that's the reason in all honesty, our strategy is to double down on it, both from a technology
development site and you heard me talk about the aggressive ramp that we're doing in 2022 in
order to support that doubling every year of our silicon carbide revenue, starting with the
quadrupling of the GTAT capabilities, exiting 2022. All of these are, I would say, positive
developments. This is where our investment is coming in and I remain very bullish on our
capabilities and the outlook of our silicon carbide business.
Q - `Harsh Kumar, Piper Sandler `
Great. Thanks, Hassane. And then as you look at some of the changes you guys have made
structurally to the ON business, getting in silicon carbide, getting into -- focusing on some new
areas that are high growth, how should we think not the near term or the midterm, but the
longer-term growth rate of the company, how should we think about that as maybe, industry
growth rate plus x percentage, what would that number be?
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President and Chief Executive Officer `
We're talking about, you can think about it over the long term, about 2X of the industry given the
content gains that we're getting. But also being, over the next few years, moving more and more
towards the megatrends that are driving the content, like EVs and ADAS. All of these are going to
drive our 2X market growth over the longer-term as we exit some of those businesses that we --
that Thad just talked about.
But more importantly, it's not just the EV, there's a lot more also investment in content growth in
the alternative energy business, where I talked about we are seeing 50% growth in '22, that's
going to remain over a multi-year period. All of those are net revenue increases for us, because
they're new markets. So that's going to keep fueling that growth. So, you can see it both on the
automotive and industrial and of course, the cloud business, where that investment is going to
keep going. So all of these are going to fuel our growth because of our exposure to those
megatrends.
Q - `Harsh Kumar, Piper Sandler `Thanks, guys. Congratulations, again.
Operator
Your next question comes from a line of `Vijay Rakesh, Mizuho Securities from Mizuho. Your line is open.
Q - `Vijay Rakesh, Mizuho Securities `
Yes. Hi, Hassane, Thad, a great quarter and guidance, solid margins. Just a quick question on the
silicon carbide side. I know you mentioned $2.6 billion in basically committed revenue. Just
wondering how that translates -- how that should -- what should be the contribution for 2022
from that? I know you a billion a year, but is that what -- be incremental to 2022? And if you can
give some margin profile on that business as well. Thanks.
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So, where -- I didn't -- I'm not guiding the silicon carbide in '22, other than saying, it's going to
more than double from the 2021 as we ramp the existing customers we have in 2021, plus
layering on top of that, the LTSAs that start in 2022 and go through 2024.
So, we have a multi-year visibility on our silicon carbide LTSAs that will get us to exiting '23 with
the $1 billion dollar run rate. That foundation is ramping. We have started ramping. We will be
ramping heavily in the second half of '22 and that's for the full year, it will be more than 2X what it
was in 2021.
For margin profile, obviously, that margin profile as we ramp into our CapEx expansion, is going
to be accretive. Today, obviously, there's the ramp up cost and I just want to make sure that you
guys understand our margin profile and our margin guide is fully loaded, meaning it includes all of
our startup costs for silicon carbide. So that gives you kind of the accretive nature of our silicon
carbide over long time.
A - `Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Just to be clear. So in the short term, silicon carbide ramp is dilutive to margins, because we
have the startup costs but over the long term, it is accretive to our corporate average.
Q - `Vijay Rakesh, Mizuho Securities `
Got it. And just on the GTAT side, obviously, very good to see you guys are pivoting to that. It's
obviously, Vi [ph] and silicon carbide are huge markets, and quadrupling the capacity there but
can you give us some color on how that translates the quadrupling of silicon carbide capacity, how
that translates to your silicon carbide wafer capacity or how much of your revenue will be
addressed internally with that quadrupling? Thanks. That's it.
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Our intent is to have majority of our demand supported by our internal capability. Obviously.
We are also partnered. We have outside sources that we are able to flex capacity during a bumps
in ramp. But if you think about the quadrupling of our output from GTAT by the end of '22, you can
think about it as putting that infrastructure for the supply over the next few years. I talked about
more than doubling in '22, we're going to double again from that in '23. As I mentioned in my
prepared remarks this quarter and last quarter, that's what's going to be supported by the GTAT.
But today, we do have still a mix. But our -- as we ramp up the GTAT capability and really, the
capacity expansion I talked about, is moving more and more of our substrate internal.Q - `Vijay Rakesh, Mizuho Securities `
Got it. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Chris Caso, Raymond James from Raymond James. Your line is open.
Q - `Chris Caso, Raymond James `
Yes. Thank you. Good morning. Just a question on pricing. What's been happening there and I
guess, there's two elements of pricing, ASP increases because of the mix shift and then pricing
on individual products. Can you just speak about how much of a tailwind that's been and where
you see that's going as you go into 2022?
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So, if I -- if you look at, 2022 is going to be a majority of mix shift. Most of the price or cost
increases that we're incurring, we're absorbing through yield improvement or operational
efficiency. So that's going to be minimal, but the primary driver is going to be a mix shift based on
really, the new baseline that we've achieved exiting Q4. That new mix shift is going to keep and
maintain the margin profile that we have on our product. And of course, it's going to keep
sustaining based on that mix shift we're going to be shipping, given the profile we know already
in 2022 being fully booked.
So that's on the gross margin. The value, price-to-value discrepancies we've seen a couple of
points I'll make in the strategic markets that is sustainable. That's the new, that's the value of our
products that we have in the baseline today. The only, I guess, pricing actions that will not be
sustainable is in that non-core business that Thad talked about that we'll be exiting as the supply
comes online from some of our peers. We're not going to chase that price down. Today, it's
more favorable than it has been historically. Still dilutive, but more favorable, but we don't plan on
maintaining that business. We'll be exiting that. So that price -- that portion of that business,
where priced I don't see that as being sustainable. It is not going to be a drag on margin because
we plan on exiting and that's all part of the guide that Thad talked about. Everything that remains
with our profile and our mix shift is what I call sustainable profile and that's where we can expect
our forward-looking mix to be.
Q - `Chris Caso, Raymond James `
Got it. Helpful. Thank you. So, for a follow-up question, if you could give us some numbers around
the Belgium fab sale, what's the cost and marginal impact of that over time? And when do some
of those benefits start layering in?
A - `Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So, we won't -- this is Thad. We won't see the benefit until we fully exit the fab. So, as I said,
It'll take one years to three years. When we're totally out of that fab, you can think about $25
million annualized fixed cost coming off of the company. In the short term, when the buyer takes
over that fab, we'll basically be paying the equivalent cost of what we have today. But as we exit,
you'll see a benefit over that timeframe, over that time period.
Q - `Chris Caso, Raymond James `Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `John Pitzer, Credit Suisse from Credit Suisse. Your line is open.
Q - `John Pitzer, Credit Suisse `
Yes. Good morning, guys. Thanks for letting me ask questions. Congratulations on the solid
results. Thad, just going on back to channel inventory. You said, it's back to six weeks to eight
weeks after a kind of a pop-on linearity at the end of the fourth quarter. Can you help us
understand what's a normalized level that you guys are thinking about and how long it might take
to get back to that normalized level?
A - `Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So today, we think about normalized level is going to be in that six to seven-week range,
given the supply constraints. As you know, we're holding inventory on our balance sheet rather
than shipping into the channel. We're making sure that this inventory is going to our strategic
customers, where we're allocating them appropriately, whether it's through the channel or
whether it's direct. By holding that inventory, we can control where it goes.
So, in the short-term, I think we popped up to 7.3 from 6.8. I think that's kind of the normal range
what we're going to be looking at probably for the remainder of this year. I think when you look
further out there, we're probably looking something around 10 weeks, plus or minus, I think is
what we'll be doing. I mean, obviously, we've got to see where this market kind of shakes out and
when we could do that. But I think for the foreseeable future, it's six weeks to seven weeks.
Q - `John Pitzer, Credit Suisse `
Got it. And then Thad, I also thought I heard you say that unit volumes drove most of the
sequential growth in the December quarter. One, is that true? And if it is, I'm just kind of curious,
if you can help us walk through the incremental margin leverage and what drove that
sequentially? Because by my math, the exiting of the businesses only gave you about 70 bps. It
sounds like most of it was unit driven. I know that utilization was up. Can you just help me kind of
square that circle a little bit?
A - `Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So, we -- revenue was up 6%, units were up 5.7%. So, you're right, so that the top-end
revenue came from additional units being shipped primarily and then obviously, a mix shift in the
higher margin. So, when you think about the gross margin improvement, sequentially, it is more
shifts into the -- more favorable shifts into the strategic markets. We did get operational
efficiencies, which is reducing our manufacturing cost as well. And then as I said, there's a slight
pricing increase as well that we're seeing kind of in the market as we're passing on additional
costs to our customers that we've been seeing.
Q - `John Pitzer, Credit Suisse `
And then Hassane if I --
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And John, you can think about is the auto and industrial, that was a recipient of the mix shift that
we have from the non-core, the business that we exited, that also drives just a higher ASP also,just because of the market mix and that's why we favor those markets from a strategy
perspective. So then, it's the unit at a higher ASP.
Q - `John Pitzer, Credit Suisse `
That's hopeful. And then if I could just sneak one down on the silicon carbide market, when you
talk about longer term, this being accretive to your model, I'm just kind of curious, how you're
thinking about kind of the global capacity for silicon carbide wafers versus kind of the incremental
value add that your IP can bring to bear? To what extent are you going to be sort of a prisoner to
global supply-demand where we have to figure out kind of a CapEx model and to what extent
are you not going to be a prisoner to that because you bring something unique to the table?
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Look, we -- I have always said that nobody wins because you have material. Nobody wins
because you have supply assurance, which makes everybody comfortable and competitive
advantages. But what you win is the efficiency of your products. That's how customers look at it.
Nobody's going to take an inferior product for a flagship EV that they're ramping, just because
you have supply. But they will select the supplier, which they have selected us, because of our
product performance, our roadmap, and they will get more comfortable and more bullish just like
I am when we have the supply assurance to support their ramp. That's what's going to be kind of
the landscape moving forward.
So, having our supply and the assurance of supply and really controlling our fate with the
substrate through the GTAT acquisition that we closed, gives us that baseline that we are able to
ramp from. But we remain winning based on the efficiency of our products and the
aggressiveness of our roadmap.
Q - `John Pitzer, Credit Suisse `
Thanks, guys.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Christopher Roland from Susquehanna. Your line is
open.
Q - `Christopher Rolland, Susquehanna `
Thanks, guys. Congrats on that gross margin guide in particular. I guess, my first question for
either of you guys, the LTSAs, I think, I missed maybe some of the details there. But if you could
describe kind of what percentage revenue falls under LTSAs today? And looking out to 2025, I
mean we know what you guys did with LTSAs and Cyprus. But what are your plans for -- what
percentage of revenue by, call it 2025, might be under LTSA?
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Look, I'm not giving percent covered in LTSA. I can tell you in 2022, we're sold out. We're fully
booked. Anything incremental we get is going to come from efficiency that we get through the
year in units that were able to ship. So 2022, kind of that's how you can think about it. 2023, our
LTSAs that I keep referring to, extend through 2024. Our focus on LTSA is on strategic and
obviously, there's always that the net loss that we're talking about, (inaudible) obviously that's not
under LTSA. We're going to be replacing that with an aggressive new product ramp. So, I'm nottalking about percent under LTSA, but I can tell you the visibility is higher than it's ever been in the
company and it doesn't -- it extends much beyond 2020.
Q - `Christopher Rolland, Susquehanna `
Thanks, Hassane. And then for my second question, the exited business that you guys did, I think
you said $170 million at 20% gross margin, I was wondering, how much of that might be left? And
then secondly, if a downturn were to occur and you guys needed to still fill your fabs, could you
re-engage successfully with those accounts or do you think that ship has sailed?
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President and Chief Executive Officer `
No. Look, I'll answer the second part is that's an important pillar of the strategy. The answer is,
we're not going to chase after it. Because -- think about it this way, if there is a market downturn,
that business is highly dilutive. I mean, you can think about the 15% to 25% margin today, that's in
a favorable pricing environment. So, you can imagine in a downmarket, that revenue or that
margin, is way worse than it is now at that 20%. So, the answer is, we're not going to chase after
it. Strategically, we are walking away from it, regardless of what the market does.
What we are doing in the meantime to make sure that our -- is our manufacturing optimization is
as we're exiting those, we are resizing our manufacturing footprint in order to prevent under-
loading that historically has plagued the company. So that's going to give us that sustainable
margin that we are delivering. So even in a downturn, we're not going to get the drag from gross
margin because of mix. We're going to be in a favorable mix regardless of what the market does
from a margin perspective, and we are working on our manufacturing optimization, like Thad
talked about with the Belgium fab, and then ramping of the East Fishkill, where we have scaled
fab through our Fab-Liter strategy in order to sustain that and prevent under-loads. So, we're not
going to run after bad business no matter what the market does. That's strategically, our
direction.
Q - `Christopher Rolland, Susquehanna `
Thanks, Hassane.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `William Stein, Truist Securities from Truist Securities. Your line is open.
Q - `William Stein, Truist Securities `
Great. Thanks for taking my question. I'll add my congratulations on the great results and outlook.
I'm wondering if you can dig a little bit more into the LTSAs just asked about. But specifically, do
these look like sort of committed volume where specific orders are allocated as the demand
becomes more clear? In other words, sort of just volume commitments or are these more like
hard purchase orders placed in sort of a blanket fashion?
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So, I'll answer, if I understood the question correctly. The LTSAs are committed, both volume and
pricing. That gives us the visibility and they're committed on mix. So, it's not a blanket LTSA of
some revenue number. It is associated to a mix, because that's what we're using in order to
decide on where to expand our capacity, which is purely on our strategic products. What we don't
want is just a blanket capacity expansion in good or bad day. So, we're focusing our capacity
expansion on where the LTSAs are. And again, the LTSAs goes down in volume, price and mix. It'sthe best visibility we have and like I said, extend over a multi-year period, because capacity we're
putting in today is really impacting '23 and '24. 2022 is kind of, it is what it is. And that's why I say,
it's fully committed year as far as mix and volume, plus some of the efficiencies that I talked
about we'll get throughout the year.
Q - `William Stein, Truist Securities `
That helps. And then just a clarification on that last point as well. It sounds like lead times are
beyond 52 weeks at this point. Is that correct? Have they extended further during the quarter?
And maybe, similar question around backlog, has that grown in the last 90 days?
A - `Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Well, it's Thad. The lead times are very consistent. They are right around 45 weeks plus or
minus -- consistent with what we've seen in the past couple of quarters, so no major change on
that. Backlog continues to be very strong. It's outpacing supply. This is purely a supply game right
now in terms of just catching up with demand.
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And just to clarify my comment that anything now is for 2023 is more on the CapEx, not on really
supply and demand perspective, meaning, installing CapEx through '22 will really impact capacity
expansion in '23.
Q - `William Stein, Truist Securities `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Harlan Sur, JPMorgan from JPMorgan. Your line is open.
Q - `Harlan Sur, JPMorgan `
Good morning. Congratulations on the solid results and execution. Good to see the sale of the
Belgium fab. I know it's going to take a few years to see the benefits of this. I believe that you
guys had targeted total fixed cost reductions from smaller fab exits to drive about $125 million,
$150 million of fixed cost over the next few years. Is most of this fixed cost reduction still ahead of
the team and have you been able to actually find more opportunities for fixed cost reductions?
A - `Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, Harlan. It's Thad. That number is still the targeted number that we're going after. As I said
earlier, Belgium is roughly about $25 million of that fixed cost. So, you can see, we've got a lot
ahead of us. We're not done with the fab divestitures. We laid out that plan, that Fab-Liter plan
and we're still executing to that plan.
Q - `Harlan Sur, JPMorgan `
Great. Thanks for that. And then Intelligent Sensing on a 4Q and full-year basis, I mean, very
strong year-over-year growth, but still quite a bit lower than your auto industrial segments
combined. In fact, I think ISG growth was almost 2X lower versus PSG in your auto and industrial
segments combined in Q4. Yet we know that demand in content expansion is just as strong as
your power business. So, you outsourced a big part of ISG, what's the visibility on when capacitysituation starts to improve meaningfully from your foundry partners? And is this motivating the
team to actually accelerate its insourcing efforts here?
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Look, we are -- so you're absolutely right. It's not -- this is purely a supply-constrained
environment for the sensing, given the higher percent of our external manufacturing. So, we
remain focused on working with our outside foundry partners. We were able to get more supply
in the fourth quarter. That's what drove kind of the results, and we're working continuously in
order to secure more and more supply for 2022. So that's kind of where that business comes in.
You're right. It's not the demand, it's more of a supply and our focus about the mix, internal and
external, remains on track.
Q - `Harlan Sur, JPMorgan `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus from Stifel. Your line is open.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus `
Yes. Thank you and congratulations on the record results. Could you elaborate a little bit on the
inventory and the channel? I think you said, it went up to 7.3, but I think you also said in this
quarter, it came back down. So, is that mainly because sell-through actually got better again this
quarter or did you take an opportunity to perhaps hold a little bit more in this? Just wanted some
clarification there please.
A - `Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. The inventory in the channel went up to 7.3 weeks from 6.8 weeks in Q3. It was purely a
result of timing of shipments late in the quarter in Q4. Sell-through in the channel remains very
robust. It's not necessarily that it has cranked up here in Q1. It was just purely a timing of delivery,
and when we got supply and be able to get it into the channel. So, it's already returned back into
that 6.8 weeks level. And as I was saying earlier, we think going for what will maintain kind of the
six to seven weeks' range for the foreseeable future.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus `
Understood. Thank you for that. And the $650 million run rate for CapEx, how much of that is kind
of going to fund in a regular CapEx versus the additional investments you're having now in 300-
millimeter and the silicon carbide capacity?
A - `Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
The vast majority of it is going to silicon carbide and to CapEx for East Fishkill, this 300 mm fab
buildout. There is -- the rest of it, I would consider more maintenance, CapEx.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus `
Great, helpful. Congrats, again.
OperatorYour next question comes from the line of Rajvi Gill from Needham & Company. Your line is open.
Q - `Rajvindra Gill, Needham & Company `
Yes. Thank you and congrats as well. You might have touched upon this before, but if I look at the
percentage of revenue coming from auto and industrial, it's now 63%. So ex those markets, the
other markets represent 37% of sales last year, the other markets were representing about 42%.
So, your non kind of core markets are going down from 42% to you know 37%, 38% as you ramp
auto industrial. When we're thinking about this 48% to 50% gross margin long-term, can you give
us a sense; number one, in terms of what percentage of sales do we think auto industrial
represent over time, and any sense in terms of the spread of the gross margins between auto
and industrial against the other segments.
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. The --we stated in our Analyst Day that we expect over the next five years auto and
industrial to become about 75% of our total revenue. So, we're at 63%. So that gives you kind of
our trajectory, because it's also tied to our margin expansion as we move forward towards that
75%. Obviously, the mix or margin profile is more favorable from these markets because that's
part of the trajectory that we have, getting to that 48% to 50% is by being more and more
exposed to the markets. But more importantly, it's the new product that we are ramping that are
better margin profile. So, it's a mix shift for our products, new products versus call it, the run rate
products and a mix shift to end markets, auto and industrial becoming 75% as the expense of
other markets that have historically have had lower margin profile. So net-net, you get the margin
expansion and the growth that we talked about.
Now, I just want to highlight one thing; in the other bucket, other than auto industrial, we do have
a growth segment with favorable margin, and that's our cloud and 5G play for that market. That
market, we talked about it growing at 11% in our Analyst Day. So, we see that also as a favorable
mix from both product and market that drive an expansion of margin beyond where we are
today. So, these are kind of the three big components you can think about driving the growth for
the company moving forward and the remaining margin expansion that Thad talked about.
A - `Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, Rajvi, just let me expand on that a little bit as well. The 37% has got some very favorable
gross margin in there. It's not like it's all low gross margin. So, we fast forward and we get 75% of
our business in auto and industrial, the other 25%, other it's still favorable margin, right. It's not a
low margin business. That's the part that we're exiting. But Hassane is right. As we flex more into
auto industrial, that would be more accretive, and obviously, the 5G will be accretive as well. But
there is good high gross margin in our other bucket as well.
Q - `Rajvindra Gill, Needham & Company `
That's helpful. And for my follow-up Thad, you know your shift to a Fab-Liter manufacturing
strategy is underway. You had mentioned in the past that you want to maintain your internal
manufacturing footprint around 65% and you'll achieve that through a lighter footprint by exiting
smaller subscale facilities and moving to or expanding larger ones. With your new 48% to 50%
gross margin target, how do we think about that component of the internal versus external
manufacturing capacity?
A - `Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `Yes. So today, internally, we manufacture roughly 65% of our own product. As we fast forward, we
bring on East Fishkill, the 300-millimeter fab. We said that we have the capabilities of expanding
capacity by 1.3X of what it is today. Now we have the option there as we add capacity and we add
CapEx to be able to support that, but as we look further out, that model doesn't change. We still
believe we'll manufacturer 65% of our own product in-house, because we'll get a cost benefit of
it. It's really just exiting those subscale fabs, moving it into more efficient fabs and obviously, the
300-millimeter fab is a component of that.
Q - `Rajvindra Gill, Needham & Company `
Great. Congrats, again.
A - `Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Rajvi.
Operator
This brings us to the end of our question-and-answer session. I'd turn the call back over to
`Hassane El-Khoury, President and Chief Executive Officer, President and CEO, for some closing remarks.
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you all for joining us today. I once again, thank our worldwide teams for their hard work in
accelerating our transformation and driving outstanding results over the last year.
With the transformation of our business, we have built a strong engine to power our growth for
many years to come. We have established leadership in the fastest-growing semiconductor
markets such as vehicle electrification and ADAS, and we are enabling disruption and energy
infrastructure and factory automation. We are driving growth while accelerating profitability and
rapidly expanding margins. We expect to sustain this momentum with the ongoing
transformational changes to our cost structure and the impending ramp of our EV business. Thank
you.
Operator
This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.