Q4 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Onsemi Fourth Quarter 2022 Earnings
Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers'
presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) Please be
advised that today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, `Parag Agarwal, Vice President of Investor Relations & Corporate Development, Vice
President of Investor Relations and Corporate Development. Please go ahead.
`Parag Agarwal, Vice President of Investor Relations & Corporate Development `
Thank you, Christo. Good morning, and thank you for joining Onsemi's fourth quarter of 2022
quarter results conference call. I'm joined today by `Hassane El-Khoury, President & Chief Executive Officer, our President and CEO;
and `Thad Trent, Chief Financial Officer, CFO.
This call is being webcast on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.onsemi.com. A
replay of this webcast along with our 2022 fourth quarter earnings release will be available on our
website approximately one-hour following this conference call and the recorded webcast will be
available for approximately 30 days following this conference call. Additional information is
posted on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Our earnings release and this presentation includes certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures for the most directly comparable GAAP
measures and the GAAP financial measures are included in our earnings release, which is posted
separately on our website in the Investor Relations section. During the course of this conference
call, we'll make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding future events are the
future financial performance of the company. We wish to caution that such statements are subject
to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially fromactual results to differ from our forward-looking statements are described in our most systems
Form 10-K and Form 10-Qs in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and in our
earnings release for the fourth quarter of 2022. Our estimates or other forward-looking
statements may change and the company assumes no obligation to update forward-looking
statements to reflect actual results, changed assumptions or other events that may occur except
as required by law.
Now let me turn it over to Hassane. Hassane?
`Hassane El-Khoury, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Parag, and thank you all for joining us today. 2022 has been an excellent year for
Onsemi, and nothing makes me prouder than to share our latest progress after closing the
second year of our transformation. Our worldwide teams have yet again delivered outstanding
results, allowing us to deliver the most successful year in the company's history with record
revenue of $8.3 billion in 2022, an increase of 24% year-over-year, with earnings growing three
times faster than revenue. Our gross margin of 49.2%, increased 880 basis points for the full
year, and 1,650 basis points since we began our transformation journey. From our manufacturing
footprint to our product portfolio and go-to-market strategy, we have transformed all facets of
our business and set ourselves up to win in the fastest growing mega trends of the automotive
and industrial markets.
We earned ourselves a position in the S&P 500 this past year, and we created more value for our
shareholders than ever before. The uncertainty in the macro environment has impacted demand
and we have seen a slowdown in some areas of our business, which include consumer,
computing and parts of industrial. Demand for our automotive business remains healthy as
automakers have been catching up on production levels. In Q4, our automotive business grew
54% year-over-year, 13% quarter-over-quarter and accounted for 47% of our total revenue as
compared to 35% in the quarter a year ago.
Our industrial business grew 6% year-over-year in Q4 and accounted for 26% of our total
revenue. While we saw softness in parts of our industrial business in Q4, demand for energy
infrastructure and medical applications, such as continuous glucose monitors and hearing aids
remained strong. We continue to extend our leadership in silicon carbide with our customers, who
value the leading performance of our silicon carbide modules and our end-to-end supply chain
capabilities. In 2022, we shipped more than $200 million in silicon carbide revenue. We remain on
track to deliver $1 billion in 2023 based on committed revenue from LTSAs and we now have
more than $4.5 billion of committed silicon carbide revenue between 2023 and 2025. By focusing
on the areas where we provide the most value to our customers, we have positioned ourselves
with the market leaders in the fastest growing segments in automotive and industrial. Top
automotive OEMs are not only choosing Onsemi core silicon carbide, but for our worldwide class
intelligent power and sensing solution.
In Automotive, we have seen tremendous momentum in silicon carbide and we believe that
vehicle electrification will be long-term driver for our business. We expect to remain supply-
constrained for the next several years, even as we aggressively add capacity to our Hudson,
Czech Republic and South Korea manufacturing sites. As we recently announced, Volkswagen
Group had selected Onsemi as a corporate strategic supplier to provide the silicon carbide
modules that enable a complete traction inverter solution for its entire fleet of next generation
electric vehicles. Onsemi will deliver its EliteSiC 1200 volt traction inverter power modules. These
modules facilitate small footprint and low-wage system solutions, which will support the front and
rear axle inverters in a large range of VW models.We already shipped more than 500 different devices to Volkswagen Group, including IGBTs,
MOSFETs, image sensors and power management integrated circuits and this expanded
engagement to include our silicon carbide further strengthen our partnership with one of the
largest car makers leading the charge in-vehicle electrification. In 2022, we began to recognize
revenue at Tesla from silicon carbide shipment and expect revenue to see a continued ramp in
2023. We have also expanded our partnership beyond silicon carbide and image sensor to
numerous power and analog solution totaling over 300 different part numbers. Jaguar and Land
Rover signed a seven-year long-term supply agreement to adopt Onsemi's silicon carbide for
their next-generation platforms and other solutions for their 11 kilowatt onboard chargers and
other ex-EV applications. This LTSA also provide Jaguar, Land Rover with the supply assurance of
their current production model across Onsemi's broad portfolio of power solutions.
In addition, Hyundai Motor Group selected Onsemi's EliteSic family of silicon carbide power
modules for their high-performance electric vehicles. Onsemi's EliteSic silicon carbide modules
increase the efficiency and lower the weight of the traction inverters extending electric vehicle
range and improving performance. Our high-power density Sic modules delivered the most
innovative package technology to reduce power losses associated with DC to AC conversion,
along with the reduced size and weight of the traction inverter to extend EV range and increase
performance. We remain just as focused on our engagement with Tier-1s, where we are seeing a
steep increase in Onsemi content for upcoming EV platforms and advanced safety applications.
We recently secured a win with a major Tier-1 for a marquee European platform that includes
more than $1,800 of the content across our portfolio of silicon carbide and other intelligent
power solutions for traction inverters. These are just a few of our recent wins in the fastest-
growing automotive applications given us confidence in our outlook for this business and our $1
billion revenue a year for silicon carbide. As the leading automakers accelerate the transition
towards vehicle electrification, increased autonomy, and advanced safety, they are choosing
Onsemi as their preferred partner for the performance of our silicon carbide solutions and
vertical integration from substrates to State-of-the-Art modules, for world-class image sensors,
and for the breadth of our complementary intelligent power and sensing portfolio and for our
manufacturing excellence and supply assurance.
In Industrial, while the fourth quarter revenue declined 10% over Q3, we expect our traction in
energy infrastructure and medical applications to offset the softness we are seeing in the legacy
parts of this business. The global energy crisis is triggering an acceleration and alternative energy
deployment with solar as the most installed renewable power capacity by 2027, tripling from
2021. This accelerated deployment trend is reflected in our revenue for energy infrastructure,
which increased 75% year-over-year, above our forecast of 60% growth. Our newest 200 kilowatt
win with leading energy storage subsystem suppliers contains nearly $370 of content per system
and silicon carbide and other power solutions.
Last month, we announced our partnership with AMP, the world's number one DC optimizer
company for large scale solar and energy storage systems. AMP uses our EliteSic silicon carbide
critical power switching applications. Customers like AMP expect leading-edge technology and
our silicon carbide solution meets the high performance and reliability standards required for
these renewable energy applications. In addition to our alternative energy opportunities, our
customer LTSAs are providing demand visibility into the broader industrial market, where we
expect our growth to come from over-the-counter hearing aids and emerging requirements and
factory automation. We are at the beginning of a transition cycle, where our award-winning
inductive position sensors and new-generation image sensors engineered for robotics and
scanning provide better performance at lower power.We had spent the last two years making structural changes in all areas of the company to
improve the resiliency of our business. We are a different company today. We have rationalized
our product portfolio and manufacturing footprint. We are leading in the fastest growing markets
and we are now getting the true value for our products with multi-year commitments from our
customers. We will not be distracted with the current market environment and remain focused on
our execution against our near-term objectives and our long-term strategy. Our customers are
planning well beyond 2023 and they are investing with Onsemi to deliver leading-edge
technologies that address complex, intelligent power and sensing requirements in automotive,
industrial and cloud power markets. We will grow faster than the markets we plan. And our
traction in silicon carbide coupled with the demand visibility that long-term supply agreement
support us leave me confident that with a disciplined approach in 2023, we will continue to meet
our customers' expectations and deliver on our commitment to our shareholders.
Now, I will turn the call over to Thad, to provide additional details on our financials and guidance.
Thad?
`Thad Trent, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Hassane. Let me first start by going through our full year's performance followed by
results for the quarter and a wrap-up with guidance for the first quarter. As Hassane mentioned,
our results have only been possible because of the incredible efforts of our worldwide teams. I
want to thank our employees for embracing our fast-based transformation and going above and
beyond for our customers.
A year where the macro environment and geopolitical uncertainties with front-end center, we
remain steadfast in our execution to achieve a record financial year for Onsemi. Our 2022
revenue closed at $8.3 billion, an increase of 24% year-over-year, primarily driven by strength in
our Automotive and Industrial businesses. Our non-GAAP gross margin of 49.2%, increased 880
basis points year-over-year achieving our target model of 48% to 50% for the full year. Our non-
GAAP earnings per share was $5.33 as compared to $2.95 in 2021, growing three times faster
than revenue. We just closed the eighth quarter since the beginning of our transformation and
our continued success as a direct result of the structural changes we've made to improve the
resiliency of our business.
The company's transformation has taken shape by optimizing three key areas of our business;
our manufacturing footprint, our product portfolio and our go-to-market strategy. In 2022, we
divested four sub-scale fabs to improve our cost structure. We completed the acquisition --
acquisition of East Fishkill fab in New York, which became part of our manufacturing network on
December 31st. We further reduced price-to-value discrepancies to maximize value for our
technology investments. We exited volatile and highly competitive businesses, allowing us to walk
away from $294 million of non-core revenue to date at an average gross margin of 26%. We
pivoted our portfolio to high margin products in end-markets with Auto and Industrial exiting the
year at 73% of total revenue versus 59% in Q4 of 2020. We exited the year with $16.6 billion of
signed LTSAs across our entire portfolio. We increased our new product revenue by 34% and we
increased the design-win funnel by 38% year-over-year. These structural changes have yielded a
three-fold increase in free cash flow since the start of our transformation, growing approximately
four times as fast as revenue with 2022 coming in at a 20% free cash flow margin.
Our strategy has driven radical improvement in the performance of our business units. And these
businesses are now best-in-class among their immediate and broader peer groups. For example,
our Intelligent Sensing Group's transformation has yielded a high-growth, high-operating margin
business. ISG is now comparable to peers who typically come in valuation multiples at premium of-- premiums of more than two times the industry average. ISG exited Q4 with record gross
margin of more than 49%. By rationalizing the portfolio and exiting low margin consumer basing
markets. ISG's gross margin has improved by more than 1,600 basis points since the start of our
transformation and the revenue mix is now more than 90% high margin in Automotive and
Industrial. ISG revenue of $1.28 billion in 2022, increased 73% over 2020, driven by the transition
to higher resolution sensors at elevated ASPs.
As I mentioned earlier, we received ownership of our 300 millimeter fab in East Fishkill on
December 31st. This fab is a key enabler of our brownfield manufacturing strategy by providing
incremental capacity for our silicon power products that we are transitioning from our fab in Korea
to create capacity for our silicon carbide ramp. In addition, the EFK fab provides us with the
capabilities to support long-term growth for our intelligent silicon business. Since the acquisition
closed on the last day of the year, there is no P&L impact in Q4, but the acquired assets are now
reflected on our balance sheet.
Turning to results for the fourth quarter. As I mentioned, Q4 was another quarter of strong
results. Total revenue was $2.1 billion, an increase of 14% over the fourth quarter of 2021, and a
4% decline quarter-over-quarter. Record Automotive revenue of $989 million, increased 13%
quarter-over-quarter, and 54% year-over-year to 47% of our total revenue as compared to 35%
in the quarter a year ago. Industrial revenue grew by 6% year-over-year, but declined by 10%
quarter-over-quarter, primarily due to macroeconomic factors. As Hassane mentioned, our
energy infrastructure and medical businesses continue to grow despite macroeconomic
headwinds. Revenue from Intelligent Power and Intelligent Sensing accounted for 69% of our total
revenue in Q4. Intelligent Power grew 18% year-over-year and Intelligent Sensing grew by 47%
year-over-year, both driven by continued growth in Automotive and Industrial markets. Revenue
for the Power Solutions Group or PSG was $1 billion, an increase of 10% year-over-year. Revenue
for the Advanced Solutions Group or ASG was $701 million, an increase of 8% year-over-year, and
revenue for the Intelligent Sensing Group or ISG was a record $354 million, an impressive
increase of 44% year-over-year.
GAAP gross margin for the -- for the fourth quarter was 48.5% and non-GAAP gross margin was
48.4%, and above the midpoint of our guidance. Our non-GAAP gross margin declined by 90
basis points quarter-over-quarter with our planned ramps in silicon carbide and lower factory
utilization at 74%, as we proactively slowed wafer starts from the beginning of the year. We also
exited an additional $17 million of revenue in the quarter at an average gross margin of 40%,
bringing the total to date to $294 million at non-core business exits.
GAAP operating margin for the quarter was 33.5% and non-GAAP operating margin was 34.1%,
an increase of 550 basis points year-over-year, and a decrease of 130 basis points quarter-over-
quarter. GAAP earnings per diluted share for the fourth quarter was $1.35 as compared to $0.96
in the quarter a year ago. Non-GAAP earnings per share was $1.32 as compared to $1.09 in the
fourth quarter of 2021.
We remain confident in the sustainability of our long-term gross margin model of 48% to 50%,
despite near-term headwinds from silicon carbide startup cost and our ramp at EFK. As we enter
2023, we are maintaining tight control of our wafer starts, managing inventory levels, and we
remain disciplined in our spending. We expect continued favorability as we plan to exit more than
$400 million of low-margin business. And starting in 2024, we'll start recognizing $160 million of
gross -- gross margin benefit as we transition our wafers supply from the divested fabs.
Now let me give you some additional numbers for your models. GAAP operating expenses for
the fourth quarter were $316 million, as compared to $352 million in the fourth quarter of 2021.Non-GAAP operating expenses were $300 million as compared to $306 million in the quarter a
year ago. Non-GAAP operating expenses were below the midpoint of our guidance as we
proactively manage, spend across the company. For the fourth quarter, our non-GAAP tax rate
was 15.9%. Our GAAP-diluted share count was 448 million shares and our non-GAAP diluted share
count was 440 million shares. We repurchased 1.3 million shares for $90 million in the fourth
quarter. For the full year, we repurchased four million shares for a total of $260 million at an
average price of $65.13 per share, which was 16% of 2022 free cash flow.
Turning to the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents increased 19% sequentially to $2.9 billion
and we got $1.5 billion undrawn on our revolver. Cash from operations was $731 million and free
cash flow was $380 million or 18.5% of revenue. Capital expenditures during the fourth quarter
were $340 million, which equates to a capital intensity at 16% for the quarter and 12% for the full
year. As we indicated previously, we are directing a significant portion of our capital expenditures
towards silicon carbide and enabling our 300-millimeter capability at the East Fishkill fab, and
expect our capital intensity to be in the mid-to-high-teens percentage range in the next several
quarters.
Accounts receivable of $842 million, declined by $15 million and DSO of 37 days, increase by one
day. Inventory increased by $41 million sequentially and days of inventory increased by seven days
to 136 days. This includes approximately 26 days of bridge inventory to support fab transition and
the intending silicon carbide ramp. We continue to proactively manage distribution inventory --
decreased inventory in the channel by $10 million sequentially and historically below levels with
weeks of inventory at 7.3 weeks compared to 6.9 weeks of Q3. Total debt was $3.2 billion and net
leverage is approaching zero. We accrued $15.7 million on our balance sheet under property, plant
and equipment related to the 25% investment tax credit for investments on US factories. This will
eventually flow through our income statement and lower depreciation and will receive the
associated cash benefit in the future.
Let me now provide you key elements of our non-GAAP guidance for the first quarter. The table
detailing our GAAP and non-GAAP guidance is provided in the press release related to our fourth
quarter results. We continue to see strong demand from our automotive end-markets, driven by
electrification and ADAS and accelerating ramp of our silicon carbide business. We continue to
see softening in certain industrial applications and we expect increased weakness in our non-
strategic end-markets that we plan to exit. Given the macro uncertainty, we are taking a cautious
stance in our guidance. Despite a slowing macroeconomic environment, our business continues
to strengthen with total committed revenue under LTSAs of $16.6 billion, an increase of $2.5 billion
quarter-over-quarter. We expect to recognize more than $5 billion of revenue from our
committed LTSAs in 2023, in addition to our non-cancel or non-returnable orders. We anticipate
Q1 revenues will be in the range of $1.87 billion to $1.97 billion with continued strength in
automotive amid softness in all other end-markets. We expect non-GAAP -- non-GAAP gross
margin to decline to be between 45.7% and 47.7% due to our factory utilization and the dilutive
impact of ramping silicon carbide and ESK, which is within our expected range of 100 basis points
to 200 basis points and 50 basis points to 70 basis points, respectively. This also includes share
based compensation of $3.4 million. We expect 2023 to be a transition year for our gross margin
as we manage the temporary headwinds.
We expect non-GAAP operating expenses of $298 million to $313 million, including share-based --
share-based compensation of $23 million. We anticipate our non-GAAP OIE be $21 million to $25
million. We expect our non-GAAP tax rate to be in the range of 15.5% to 16.5%, and our non-GAAP
diluted share count for the first quarter is expected to be approximately 441 million shares. This
results in non-GAAP earnings per share to be in the range of $1.2 to $1.14. We expect capitalexpenditures of $340 million to $380 million, primarily in brownfield investments, which are more
efficient use of capital in the greenfield alternatives of building a fab from the ground up.
As a company we've become much more agile, controlled and purposeful in our execution and
we will benefit from our disciplined approach in 2023 and beyond. Given our confidence in our
strategy to invest for long-term profitable growth, we remain committed to a balanced capital
allocation strategy to drive shareholder value. With a three-fold increase in free cash flow, a
strong balance sheet and our net leverage approaching zero, we have increased flexibility in
deploying capital towards our shareholder returning program. Today, we announced that our
Board of Directors has approved a new program, authorizing, up to $3 billion of share
repurchases through 2025, representing twice that of the last authorization, which expired at the
end of last year. This is aligned with our stated strategy of returning 50% of free cash flow to
shareholders over the long term.
And finally, we hope you're saving the date for Analyst Day in New York on May 16th. We look
forward to sharing more of our long-term vision at that time.
And with that, I'd like to turn the call back over to Christo to open the line for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) And our first question will come from `Ross Seymore, Analyst, Deutsche Bank from
Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Hi, guys. Thanks for letting me ask a question. First question for either of you guys. And the first
quarter guidance down about 9% sequentially. I know you said Auto staying strong and everything
else is kind of softening. Can you give a little bit more color on the puts and takes with exits,
etcetera? And then perhaps, more importantly, how those trend throughout the year between
the end segments within that $5 billion of LTSAs you plan to represent?
A - `Thad Trent, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, Ross, this is Thad. So if you look the planned exits that we have for Q1, we think we'll exit up
to another $75 million in the first quarter. As we've always said, this will be market-dependent, but
we do kind of see that in the cards here. In terms of overall, what we're seeing for Q1, we're
looking at Automotive continuing to be strong and think about it is kind of low single-digits. We
think Industrial is down and kind of low single-digits. And the rest consumer compute other being
down pretty significantly and make up that the rest of it to be down approximately 9% for the
quarter. I think for the year, it's hard to tell at this point. I think we see Auto remaining strong, I
think Industrial kind of being potentially flat year-on-year and the rest of the business being --
being down slightly or down, but it's, obviously, too early to tell what's going to happen long-
term.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Got it. Thanks for that color Thad. And then -- on the gross margin side of things, it seems like
that's holding in well despite the utilization dropping and all the other headwinds. It doesn't seem
like there's any surprises. Any sort of linearity about how the buckets work throughout the year?
The access being a positive, the silicon carbide side and the East Fishkill being negative, is thatthe shape a little more back-end loaded? Anything you could provide on color on that would be
helpful.
A - `Thad Trent, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. You nailed that, right. I mean, there's no surprises here, where margins are coming in.
We're really happy with where we're performing all of the ramps in silicon carbide and EFK are
playing out just as we would expect. We think these headwinds kind of peak, probably Q2, Q3.
We think by the end of this year, we've got silicon carbide. The headwinds there have got no
parity and the margins are at the corporate average at that point, after all these headwinds are
behind us. But we're pretty happy with -- with the performance and the tracking of gross margin
at this point right on track with what we've been telegraphing for a couple of quarters now.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you.
A - `Thad Trent, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America from Bank of America. Your line is open.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America `
Thanks for taking my question. I just wanted to dig into the silicon carbide comments. Seem like
you are reaffirming the $1 billion commitment for this year. And I think you raised the longer-term
outlook by $0.5 billion to $4.5 billion. I was wondering, Hassane, if you could give us some more
color on what's helping to drive that upside. And as kind of Part B of that question, how should we
think about any incremental headwinds on the cost or the gross margin side as you bring on more
internal material supply? Are you getting the yields? Are you getting the performance? Are you
getting what you need from your internal supply? Or will you have to rely more on external wafers
that could change the profitability of your silicon carbide business?
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So Vivek, few parts of your questions. But first, yes, we're reconfirming the $1 billion revenue
for '23. The increase of $0.5 billion in the same timeframe '23 to '25, obviously, we've always
said, we continue to engage with customers -- customers continue to value the performance of
our products and the end-to-end capability, as I mentioned in my prepared remarks. So that,
obviously, has maintained the strength of our business, where customers are committing to long
term supply agreements even in what I would call a shorter-term horizon, which is '23 to '25, so
that's again a testament of where we stand with the technology and the supply. Now as far as
your comments on internal substrate, we remain committed to our internal substrates, of course.
We have been -- through '22, we have ramped our capabilities for internal substrates. That ramp
is going to keep increasing. And that ramp is -- as a plan to support our growth in the LTSA that
we have from '23 to '25, and even beyond. And as far as yields are concerned, I know there's
conversations about our yield. None of which have been made by the company. So, I'll use the
opportunity to set the record straight. Any commentary by yields from unreliable sources, I'm not
going to comment on. What I will tell you is our yields are coming in per plan. Our ramp is coming
in per plan. And as shown in our margin in the fourth quarter and our guide in the first quarter,which all have come between that 100 to 200 basis points. So our business is healthy, our ramp is
on track and we will continue to invest in brownfield to support our customers.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America `
Very helpful, Hassane. And then -- just as a quick follow-up. I was hoping you could give us some
color on your Automotive business, excluding silicon carbide. Sales have now grown in your Auto
business for, I believe 10 quarters and you're guiding to another quarter of sequential growth.
How under supplied is the Automotive market right now? And is your non-silicon-carbide
business, you think -- can it grow in line or above the market this year?
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Look, I think we're going to outgrow the market in Automotive. We said that goal even back
in our Analyst Day, and we've been outperforming our own goal. Outside of silicon carbide, the
breadth of our portfolio is what is really highlighting the strength of that business. We've always
said that our growth is going more packed to content versus units sold. Thad talked about the
transformation we've had in our Image Sensing, or Intelligent Sensing Group. That is content both
in number per vehicle, but also the ASPs with the higher resolution. That's driving growth in our
business. A lot of the power, whether it's IGBT or support other medium and high voltage fabs,
outside of silicon carbide, that's more content both content and share gains. I can tell you, I am --
we are winning more share as others can't supply and we're locking-in that share gain in LTSAs to
sustain the long-term. So all of that is what is giving us the confidence in our ramp. And look, we
still are oversubscribed as far as demand is concerned, which puts us in a very good buffer as far
as whatever demand does and the macro does. We feel very strongly about position in our
Automotive. And of course, other segments from ASG is LED driver ultrasonic sensing, all of
these are macro trends that are happening in automotive, driving our content in that business.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Chris Danely from Citi. Your line is open.
Q - `Christopher Danely, Analyst, Citi `
Thanks guys. Last quarter you gave us an update on the shortage situation at lead times, and you
talked about lead times be in 45 weeks where they're normally 15. How has the shortage
situation in lead times is changed over the last three months?
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. So the lead times are relatively flat. I mean I think they're down a couple of weeks on
average. But when you're out at 45 weeks, that's -- that really isn't material. So I would say, things
have been very consistent throughout the quarter in terms of the lead times as well as well just
the shortages and the number of escalations that we've seen.
Q - `Christopher Danely, Analyst, Citi `
Sure. And then any comment on the Q2 outlook? It's been sort of flat, slightly up, slightly down
over the last several years? How does Q2 look? And can we expect this spread in the Q2?A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President & Chief Executive Officer `
So, Chris we'll talk about Q2 and 90 days.
Q - `Christopher Danely, Analyst, Citi `
Fair enough.
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President & Chief Executive Officer `
It's still early to make that call.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Hi. Good morning. Thanks so much for taking the question. Hassane, I was hoping you could talk a
little bit about your philosophy around LTSAs with the macro softening. I guess one of the
common questions we get from investors is, how does the company -- how do you guys manage
any requests around push-outs and things of that sort? I think in the past you've talked about not
being flexible on the pricing side, because that's a committed contract, if you will. But how are
you managing the volume side of things as it relates to LTSAs?
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Look, obviously, our philosophy has not changed. The pricing has firmed. The backdrop is
LTSAs are legally binding. We will engage with customers for the right reasons. Obviously, it not in
anybody's benefit to have inventory on their shelves, or even inventory in the channel. So we've
been managing the inventory in the channel. And you've seen that consistently in our
performance. So that's Philosophy is holding and we will maintain that engagement with
customers. It's not about price, but we will have a win-win situation with the customer and that
remains our philosophy.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Got it. Thank you. And then as a quick follow-up on -- for Thad. I guess what kind of utilization
rates are you assuming for the current quarter? That's a quick clarification. Then my question is, in
terms of long term gross margins at the 21st Analyst Day, I think you gave a range of 48% to 50%.
It sounds like your strategy, the execution to our strategy has been really good in terms of your
portfolio, your manufacturing footprint, et cetera. Is 48% to 55 -- 50% is still the right range? Or
do you feel like there could be upside given the $160 million benefit you spoke to in your
prepared remarks? Thank you.
A - `Thad Trent, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So on the utilization rates, we expect that will be kind of in this range. Maybe it's flat to
down slightly in Q1, I think just given kind of the macro softness we're seeing here in the first half
of the year. That's probably going to be remain in that range and we'll see how the second half
shapes up later. And what's the second part of the question? Can you repeat the second part of
your question?
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `Yeah, long-term gross margins, you gave a 48% to 50% range. I don't expect you to give us a
preview on the May Analyst Day. But how are you thinking about the puts and takes? And I think
you gave a number in terms of the benefit from transitioning manufacturing from your divested
fabs. Any potential upside for that 48% to 50% long-term?
A - `Thad Trent, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Look, we remain confident that 48% to 50%, I said that in my prepared remarks. We've also
said that target is a milestone, not a destination, right? We're confident our business. We have a
lot of tailwinds after we get through '23. So stay tuned on that like we remain committed to the
48% to 50%. And we believe that is -- that is a milestone.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Harsh Kumar, Analyst, Piper Sandler from Piper Sandler. Your line is open.
Q - `Harsh Kumar, Analyst, Piper Sandler `
Yeah. Hey thanks Hassane and Thad. First of all, some great color on Tesla Volkswagen JLR,
particularly the traction inverter then at Volkswagen. I think that's huge. However question on
gross margins, you're basically guiding gross margins 400 basis-points. But you are saying that
the headwind from silicon carbide is between 100 and 200. Should we assume that it's closer to
200 at the beginning of the year? And could you give us some color on how that number will
trend? Do you expect it to be gone by the end of this year? Will it continue into next year? And
then any color on Fishkill, that 50-70 bps of headwind as well would be helpful?
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Let me start with the latter. The East Fishkill is 50 to 70 basis-points, you can think about it
that as being linear throughout the year and very consistent. That's where the foundry services
that will be providing to GlobalFoundries that kind of a low-margin, low single-digit type margin. In
terms of the silicon carbide, as I said earlier, we're really happy with the execution there. We're in
that range of 100 basis points to 200 basis points. We think that starts to keep kind of in mid year.
We think this based on what we can see now with the billion dollar run rate -- sort of billion dollar
number that we're going to hit in '23. We think we'll exit the year with that headwind behind us.
So that's why I said the 2023 is really a transition year for us.
Q - `Harsh Kumar, Analyst, Piper Sandler `
Okay. So it will be gone by the end of '23. And just curious about the softness in March. Have you
seen any kind noise cancellations in core industrial, just outside of the consumer industrial? And
couple of the other companies have talked about cancellations in the Auto business. I was curious
if you've seen anything kind of strange or weird in your Auto business amid increase in
cancellations?
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President & Chief Executive Officer `
No, no. This is Hassane. We haven't seen any of that in Automotive. Like I said earlier, we still
remain oversubscribed in Auto. So it's not really a demand for us. It's more of a supply. So as we
get more supply, we're going to be able to cover more of the demand, but cancellations havenot been an issue. In Automotive, obviously, we've seen a cancellation. If I look at -- at a trend,
actually Q4 was slightly down as far as cancellations on the non-Auto. So I think, it's just too soon
to call it a trend. But it looks like its getting better. But like I said with our LTSAs, we're able to
engage with customers for a win-win. So we don't see that impact beyond what we guided.
Q - `Harsh Kumar, Analyst, Piper Sandler `
Great guys. Thank you so much.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Chris Caso, Analyst, Credit Suisse from Credit Suisse. Your line is open.
Q - `Chris Caso, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Yes, thank you. Good morning. Just a follow-up question on it -- on some of the industrial
weakness that you saw. And I recognize for you the industrial market is very broad, and it sounds
like you've seen some different trends there. Perhaps you could give some more color on what
you're seeing and how that looks like it's trending into midyear?
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Look, I think, even -- even last quarter when we -- when we talked about the third quarter,
even we talked about how some of the industrial markets that are closer to the consumer like
power tools and so on, those remain soft. We see softness in the broader market. Again, we
believe this is more consumer and macro-driven, where we have been investing in industrial and
alternative energy. That has actually been up by 75%, even ahead of our 60% growth target that
we had, so that exceeded our expectation. That gives you the strength of the market. That will
continue through '23. And then pockets in the medical business that we focus on have seen a lot
of growth and we see that continuing in '23, obviously, offset by softness in other broader
pockets of industrial. So no real change in the performance of that business or the outlook as we
get into '23.
Q - `Chris Caso, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Okay. Thank you. Just a follow-up on pricing. And I think you've been clear on number aspects of
pricing. It sounds like principally in Auto, this is covered by the LTSAs and sort of non-core
segments, where pricing is declining once we're exiting. But what about Industrial, which I imagine
probably more NCNR orders? Are you seeing any changes as the NCNRs tail-off and you're
signing new orders for these customers? Or is that pricing remaining resilient as well?
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President & Chief Executive Officer `
No. The pricing is holding up, because I -- just to clarify one thing. Our Industrial business, where I
highlighted the growth and where we have been focusing and where we want to keep investing,
those are -- those remain under LTSAs. So LTSAs are not only for automotive, but they are for
growth areas, where we have been putting investments and we want that return on the
investments to be solid. So that carves out a big portion of the growth in Industrial and puts it on
high confidence. Obviously, the NCNR, we are getting the renewed backlog in these and the
backlog comes in at the same rate as far as pricing is concerned. So we don't see any -- any
softness there as far as pricing even -- even on the NCNR.
Q - `Chris Caso, Analyst, Credit Suisse `Got it. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Matt Ramsay from Cowen. Your line is open.
Q - `Matthew D. Ramsay, Analyst, Cowen & Company `
Thank you very much guys. Good morning. For my first question, I wanted to follow-up on the last
topic there that Chris brought up. Thad, you guys now have $16.5 billion, something like that billion
in LTSAs only, maybe a quarter of that is from the silicon carbide business to get a lot of attention.
I wonder, Thad, if you might spend a little bit more time on the rest of the business, LTSAs, where
they're concentrated. I took note of that -- increase of $2.5 billion that you just announced from
where the number was that you reported previously. So, just where you maybe a little bit more
detail on the last answer of where you're seeing the strength in the market, in order for a
customer to be willing to sign-up for those long-term agreements in other segments outside of
silicon carbide? Thanks.
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. This is Hassane. So look, the LTSAs are broad in nature. I've highlighted some examples,
where we have 100s of parts per LTSA. And that goes back to the strength of our portfolio -- and
the breadth of our portfolio as we target applications like electric vehicle, electrification or
autonomous driving or even parts of the Industrial where we provide, for example, the sensing
part of it as well as the motor control in the areas of factory automation, as an example. So all of
these is really the strength of our portfolio. If I look at it, majority is automotive, just because,
obviously, it ties to the total market. Total market in automotive is larger. Therefore, our LTSAs are
larger. And like you said, a quarter of it is that silicon carbides. So the rest is really the broad
portfolio that we have. Image Sensing, for example, remains a constrained technology. And given
that is a very key enabler for autonomous driving in the future of mobility. That has customers
really locking-in supply in order to ensure that they have what they need as they start converting
their vehicles to more ADAS or Level 2+ with more content. That's the breadth that I can talk
about across all applications that we target.
A - `Thad Trent, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Let me just add that the $4.5 billion of silicon carbide LTSA is through '25. So it's actually a
much larger number that's included in the $16.6 billion of total LTSAs. But as Hassane said, it's
broad. The place that we're not doing LTSAs, obviously, is the non-core business that we're trying
to exit that we are intentionally trying to get out of that business.
Q - `Matthew D. Ramsay, Analyst, Cowen & Company `
Got it. Thanks guys. That's helpful. As my follow up, I wanted to ask on silicon carbide on it -- a
little bit of a different angle, there's acute focus for obvious reasons on materials and yields and
what not. But, Hassane, I wanted to know if you could talk a little bit about the work that the
company is doing and potentially the differentiation of your products in areas like using
depreciated fabs to do silicon carbide rather than building new facilities or packaging, heat
dissipation, size of modules, everything downstream from the raw materials. And just how your
company is positioned there, I see lots of conversation around the materials and not as much
around the rest of the supply chain? Thanks.
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President & Chief Executive Officer `Yeah. Look, that's a great question. So we've been, obviously, investing in brownfield. We've
been very upfront about it. Given our manufacturing footprint and the optimization that we've
been undergoing in the last couple of years, we're very well positioned to grow in there as we
want. Let me give you some color. We have a large-scale manufacturing site in South Korea and
Bucheon that is a existing, highly-capable, high-output power fab that today manufacturers IGBT.
What we been able to do over the last few years is transferred that IGBT technology to East
Fishkill, converted to 12-inch, so there's benefit from that by itself, and then used an existing
power fab with slightly fewer GAAP tools in order for us to run silicon carbide and start running
silicon carbide in that fab. So, that's what allowed us to ramp so quickly and with the CapEx
efficiency that you've seen from us. That, for example, is on the front end. The same thing with
the back-end. We have a very robust back-end footprint that is already leading in power and
packaging for power semiconductors and modules. We've been able to retool those back-end
factories in order to support our well world class modules that I mentioned in my prepared
remarks for silicon carbide. So that's on the front-end and the back-end. Now, right after the
material that we've been talking about, there is, of course, capabilities of wafering and EPIC. And
that's where we do it in the Czech Republic. We've been able to increase that capacity to match
the output from our Hudson facility for our substrates and to match the capabilities that our fab
has been able to ramp to. So all of these to be sides are what is increasing proportionately in
order to support our, not only the $1 billion, but you can imagine, we're investing in the 24 ramp
and the 25 based on those LTSAs. Those are coming in on track. Those are coming in on time.
Obviously, equipment has been a challenge over the last few years, but we've been able to stay
ahead of it, given that we're utilizing our existing manufacturing footprint. So I'm very proud with
what the team has done, because it's not an easy task. But they have been able to do it and
that's, obviously, a testament of the capabilities of the team to run such a complex manufacturing
and we'll continue to invest in brownfield in order to support our long-term strategy.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question will come from `Vijay Rakesh, Analyst, Mizuho from Mizuho. Your line is open.
Q - `Vijay Rakesh, Analyst, Mizuho `
Yeah. Hi. Thanks guys. Thad and Hassane, great guide. You have given all the concerns on the
inventory side, just a quick question. Your inventory was up only 3% sequentially, which was
probably the lowest among all the analog guys. Just wondering if you could give us some color
on how inventories look the channel and at the OEM level?
A - `Thad Trent, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Look, I -- we're -- if you look at our inventory on our balance sheet, in terms of days went
up, as I mentioned, 26 days of bridge inventory for fab transition and the silicon carbide ramp. If
you look at that quarter-over-quarter, our base inventory, not the strategic portion of the
transition of bridge, is actually down. So you can see, we've talked about reducing wafer starts
from earlier in the year starting in Q2, and you can see that coming through an inventory. So this is
just in our tight management of inventory. At the same time in the channel, we've been managing
it very tight as well. So we took inventory in the channel down by $10 million sequentially. It's a 7.3
weeks. We plan on running not really tight as well. We've been in a range for quite a while here.
And as we continue to go through the softness, we'll manage both internal inventory and channel
inventory very tight and just be cautious in terms of what we're seeing out there.
Q - `Vijay Rakesh, Analyst, Mizuho `A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President & Chief Executive Officer `
No. No. Go ahead Vijay.
Q - `Vijay Rakesh, Analyst, Mizuho `
Yeah. I know the silicon carbide side, just wondering what -- if you can give us some color on
what's driving the wins? Obviously, you compete with a lot of very established suppliers on the
silicon carbide side. What's driving the wins and how defensible is it?
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Well, we are an established supplier too for silicon carbides. So that puts us in that bucket. But,
look, I remain consistent in why we're winning. Lot of people focus on technology as, call it, the
silicon carbide wafer technology or something before that, like substrates, I always couple the
competitive advantage we have on technology as encompasses the wafer technology, but also
the packaging technology. Any power semiconductor for us to be competitive and really win in
the market, you have to have both. The best power silicon or silicon carbide die, if you can't get
the heat off of it in a very light and efficient manner, then it's not going to work in the whole
system. So we're able to do the best highest power, highest density power in a very light- and
cost-effective package using our roadmap and our innovation. Customers have validated that and
customers have signed up for us. So the combination of the power, call it semiconductor or silicon
carbide, plus the packaging, co-developed is what puts us in the lead and customers are,
obviously, seeing that benefit and signing up with us for those long-term agreements. So you
have to have both and we have the best of both.
Q - `Vijay Rakesh, Analyst, Mizuho `
Got it. Thank you.
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question will come from `Joseph Moore, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Your line is
open.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Yeah. Hi guys. Thank you for all the clarity on the silicon carbide customers. That's really helpful. I
guess when you look at some of those that have also been announced by competitors, our social
competitors, how is that business being split? Is it one vendor does the on-board charger,
another just a traction inverter, are there cases, where people are multi-sourcing within those
individual components?
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Look, I mean, in all fairness, let me just give you a little bit of a time based questions. A lot
of the ramps that are happening today are ramps that have been won, call it three years, maybe
four years ago, before Onsemi was, call it a credible and a focused player in silicon carbide. Now
we talked about our strategy of doubling down on silicon carbide in 2021. So my focus and our
strategy and a lot of the wins that we have our forward-looking, obviously, they already started.They are ramping our -- against that $1 billion we have in '23, but forward-looking. So how it split,
like I said. most of the platforms are single-sourced. So I can tell you because the packaging is not
like it's swappable, so most of them are single-sourced. There are few cases, where we may
share platform, but majority of them are single sourced. And those will be ramping. Think about
what we're winning now is in the '25, '26 and beyond. What we are ramping now has already
been won a few years ago. So that gives you a little bit on the timing of what others have been
disclosing, which is not a surprise to me by the way.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thank you. And then, in terms of with forward-looking outlook, you guys talked about
maybe exiting a higher amount of business can you have the last couple quarters to $75 million.
So how much of the cautious guidance is sort of the factors that you've talked about in the non-
automotive markets versus the ability to maybe in a less tight supply environment to exit some of
those businesses more quickly?
A - `Thad Trent, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, it's really a combination of both, right. In Q4, we exited $17 million. It's below our
expectations of what we thought we would exit. And in Q1, we're looking at $75 million. So I think
it's a combination of that. But we're definitely -- we're definitely seeing slowness in the other non-
core markets, right? Consumer and computing business down and continues to be down. Like I
said, our Automotive, we expect to be up sequentially in Q1 when we think Industrial has got
some headwinds as well. But, so, I would look at it as a cautious guy, but it's kind of taking into
account the excess as well as just the overall softness that we're seeing right now.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Right. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Rajvindra Gill, Analyst, Needham and Company from Needham and Company. Your line is
open.
Q - `Rajvindra Gill, Analyst, Needham and Company `
Yes. Thanks for squeezing me and I appreciate and congrats on the silicon carbide ramp. Just a
follow-up on the long-term supply agreements. I was wondering if you could maybe talk about
any changes that you're seeing within those agreements. I know a couple of quarters ago, you
talked about certain customers requesting more volume near-term, some customers extending
the agreements, some customers requesting higher volumes. So any kind of positive specific
changes within those LTSAs that you would like to call out or noticeable.
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Look, it's been the same. You know when we -- we've done a lot of amendments. What we
call amendment where customers came in and wanting more volume and, obviously, in the areas
where we have been able to really volume because of the decline in the other markets and our
ability to convert. We have been able to sign-up for more volume for the customer, still
unfortunately less than what their demand -- natural demand would be. But we have been able to
increase. So customers always engage with us on kind of almost what about now, what about
now, are we able to get that? Some of the technology are medium voltage, that's remainimage sensor constrained. So we do have technologies across the company that that remained
constrained. So any opportunity we have, where we were able to gain efficiency in our
manufacturing footprint or convert from non-strategic to -- or non-core to core technology in our
fab, we actually will either proactively go and talk to our customers that we know we're not
supporting them 100% or they come to us with some mix. Some of it is again our sockets that we
want to get to a 100%, and lately it's been where others cannot support. And customers have
come to us and those were have been share gains. So we're able to solidify those in an LTSA to
sustain five to sometimes seven years length. So it's -- still the environment is positive as far as
the LTSAs because it's more on a long-term. It's not anything about what we can do in '23.
Q - `Rajvindra Gill, Analyst, Needham and Company `
I appreciate that color. One follow-up in terms of the overall pricing environment. I know, as part
of your strategy, you've talked about reducing the price-to-value discrepancy. You've offered and
-- obviously, have prices kind of locked-in regarding the LTSAs. How do you think about the pricing
environment -- overall blended pricing this year, as you see the benefits of those strategies, but
then kind of offset by maybe the nonstrategic? So just kind of maybe talk -- walk me through the
puts and takes on the pricing environment this year? Thank you.
A - `Thad Trent, Chief Financial Officer `
Look, I think we expect the pricing environment to be stable this year. Our approach to pricing has
been strategic, where you mentioned we're looking at price-to-value discrepancy. We've done a
lot of that. So that's all behind us right now. It's really focusing on supporting our customers with
supply. So we don't see any -- any, call it, pricing that we do. Obviously, we're always sensitive to
costs and we keep an eye up on cost. So if we do get cost increases that are not part of already
our LTSA or cost increases that are new that we haven't gotten yet from some of the vendors,
we are, of course, we'll pass those on. But as far as the pricing environment net of that, we do
see it as stable.
Q - `Rajvindra Gill, Analyst, Needham and Company `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. This does conclude the question-and-answer session for today's conference. I'd now
like to turn the call-back over to `Hassane El-Khoury, President & Chief Executive Officer, President and CEO, for any closing remarks.
A - `Hassane El-Khoury, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you again for joining our call and thank you for the thousands of Onsemi employees, who
have had a direct impact on our exceptional results. As we enter this new year amid a dynamic
macro-environment, I'm confident that we will maintain our momentum and navigate this market
better than we ever have as a company. Thank you.
Operator
This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.
Everyone have a wonderful day.