Q4 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the ON Semi Fourth Quarter 2024 Earnings
Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers'
presentation, there'll be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) Please be
advised today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, `Parag Agarwal, Vice President of Corporate Development and Investor Relations, Vice
President of Corporate Development and Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
`Parag Agarwal, Vice President of Corporate Development and Investor Relations `
Thank you, Kevin. Good morning, and thank you for joining ON Semi's fourth quarter and full-year
2024 results conference call. I'm joined today by `Hassane El Khoury, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director, our President and CEO; and
`Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, our CFO.
This call is being webcast on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.onsemi.com. A
replay of this webcast, along with our fourth quarter and full-year 2024 earnings release, will be
available on our website approximately one hour following this conference call. And the recorded
website will be available for approximately 30 days following this conference call. Additional
information is posted on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Our earnings release and this presentation includes certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP
financial measures and a discussion of certain limitations when using non-GAAP financial
measures are included in our earnings release, which is posted separately on our website in the
Investor Relations section.During the course of this conference call, we'll make projections or other forward-looking
statements regarding future events or the future financial performance of the company. We wish
to caution that such statements are subject to risk and uncertainties that could cause actual
events or results to differ materially from projections. Important factors that can affect our
business, including factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-
looking statements are described in our most recent Form 10-Ks, Form 10-Qs and other filings
with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in our earnings release for the fourth quarter
and full-year 2024.
Our estimates or other forward-looking statements might change, and the company assumes no
obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, change the
assumptions or other events that may occur except as required by law.
Now, let me turn it over to Hassane. Hassane?
`Hassane El Khoury, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
Thank you, Parag. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us on the call. 2024 marked
the fourth year of our transformation journey. Transformation that began by focusing our efforts
where we add value, intelligent power and sensing technologies. We've invested in differentiated
products to win with disruptive innovation and the high growth megatrends of automotive and
industrial and AI data centers. We've streamlined manufacturing through our Fab Right strategy,
and we've improved our operational efficiencies in doing so.
Market conditions aside, and I'll get to those, I am proud of the hard work our worldwide teams
continue to put in and I want to thank everyone for their tenacity amid what continues to be a very
difficult environment.
We remain committed to our winning formula, and we have demonstrated the resilience in our
business model, delivering non-GAAP gross margin of 45.5% against revenue of $7.1 billion for the
full-year.
As for the market environment, demand declined late in the quarter and continued into January,
resulting in fourth quarter revenue of $1.72 billion, non-GAAP gross margin of 45.3% and non-
GAAP earnings per share of $0.95. Regional revenue declined sequentially except North America,
which remained flat with Japan seeing the sharpest decline.
Quarter-on-quarter declines were driven primarily by our non-core market segments. Amid a
backdrop of end market softness and geopolitical uncertainty, inventory digestion persists across
our key end markets. Our stance has not changed. We are prioritizing value, and we will not play
in highly volatile, price sensitive markets. We are maintaining the integrity of our value proposition
and positioning ourselves for profitable growth in the future.
Our fourth quarter automotive revenue increased 8% sequentially, driven by China, followed by
North America. Results were driven by share gains and new customer ramps. China grew 18%
quarter-over-quarter and while Q4 was up, and early Chinese New Year and extended shutdown
period has already impacted January EV deliveries from the top China-based automakers.
Demand from all other regions weakened towards the end of the fourth quarter, which continued
into Q1. In the U.S., Tier 1s have been impacted by lower global auto demand than expected in
the fourth quarter, along with slower EV ramp than anticipated. Entering Q1, we expect persisting
volatility due to the geopolitical uncertainty across all geographies as our customers assess their
manufacturing footprints and the impact of tariffs.We are monitoring the demand signals of EV adoption given the uncertainty around EV tax credits
and slowing infrastructure deployment. In Europe, EV demand weakened in Q4, with new vehicle
registrations dropping 10% month-over-month in December.
Our industrial revenue decreased 5% sequentially, with weakness in the traditional parts of the
business. The PMI across all major regions remained weak and the slowdown in manufacturing
activity is further compounded by ongoing inventory digestion and we expect the weakness to
persist into 2025. Smaller but growing parts of the business that we don't break out are AI Data
Center and Aerospace and Defense, where revenue grew more than 40% and 50% respectively
in 2024 over 2023.
In Silicon Carbide, our fourth quarter revenue increased sequentially, resulting in a 22% increase
for the second half over the first half of 2024. For the full-year, revenue declined slightly from
2023 as programs did not ramp at the expected levels. We remain focused on executing our
strategy. We have delivered on our 200 millimeter technology development and sampled
customers. We are balancing our internal versus external substrate supply and we are winning
with the market movers by pushing the boundaries of innovation.
The performance of our Silicon Carbide enables us to deliver an optimized system performance,
while lowering the total cost of ownership to our customers without eroding the value of our
solutions.
In China, we continue to win based on performance and we expect to gain share in the Silicon
Carbide TAM as the transition to 800 volt batteries continue.
Further, furthering our strategy of delivering the complete power tree for Automotive, Industrial
and AI data center, we closed the acquisition of Qorvo's Silicon Carbide junction field effect
transistor business. The SiC JFET portfolio complements our elite SiC power solutions and is the
most competitive technology to get the energy efficiency and power density and power supply
units for AI data centers. It is a high voltage play in AI data centers and as power levels in these
systems are nearly doubling, AC to DC conversion for UPS and PSUs is transitioning from Silicon
solutions to Silicon Carbide.
We expect SiC JFET to continue to replace the incumbent super junction technologies and PSUs
as the need for smaller footprint, better performance, and lower cost continues to increase.
In terms of Silicon Carbide revenue growth and AI, design wins for the hyper-scaler started to
ramp in the fourth quarter and we expect our SiC JFET and SiC MOSFET revenue to continue to
grow in 2025. The acquisition of this highly capable team and technology also accelerates our
readiness for emerging markets such as EV battery disconnects and solid-state circuit breakers.
We expect this portfolio to unlock a $1.3 billion TAM opportunity with a 30% revenue CAGR
through 2030. Despite the current environment, we remain committed to our long-term strategic
goals, and we continue to invest in disruptive innovation to drive profitable growth and to emerge
stronger from this downturn.
In November, we introduced the most advanced analog and mixed signal platform for intelligent
power and sensing solutions. Our new Treo platform built on leading-edge BCD 65 nanometer
technology for high performance and advanced features supports the industry's widest voltage
range of 1 to 90 volts for unmatched integration. The trail platform embodies our strategy of
prioritizing high-value products and will accelerate our portfolio proliferation to unlock a $36 billion
TAM opportunity at up to 70% gross margins. The modular architecture of the platform is
enabling us to sample products faster.This year, we will start to reap the benefits of the investments we've already made in the
technology and capacity at our East Fishkill Fab as we ramp-up revenue and double the number
of products available on the market. Customer reaction has been very positive. They are taking
advantage of the level of integration and accelerated time to market for applications such as
Ethernet for automotive zonal architecture, ultrasonic sensing for ADAS park assist, and high
efficiency power management for AI data centers. And they are actively designing trail-based
devices into their next generation platforms.
As we look ahead to 2025, visibility is very limited and customers are taking a wait and see
approach in a backdrop of geopolitical uncertainty. We will continue to focus on what we can
control. We are taking this opportunity to review our portfolio and further rationalize based on the
value we bring. We will optimize our manufacturing footprint to improve our cost structure, and
we will control spending by focusing on efficiency through automation, while we continue to invest
in R&D to support our long-term growth. Our actions will position us to better benefit from a
market recovery while supporting our long-term strategy.
Let me now turn it over to Thad to give you more detail on our results and approach going into
2025.
`Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Hassane. As Hassane mentioned, despite the downturn, our 2024 results demonstrate
our team's relentless pursuit of operational excellence to drive cost efficiencies in a weak market
environment. Their efforts allow us to maintain gross margin at 45.5% against revenue of $7.1
billion and to generate $1.2 billion of free cash flow at 3X increase year-over-year. Our proactive
approach to prudent cost management and capacity planning has proven to be the right strategy
to deliver better results than the company has ever achieved in similar market conditions.
Looking to 2025 and beyond, we believe right-sizing the organization will benefit the company in
the long-term. These structural changes should position us to expand gross and operating
margins and generate strong cash flow in the future. We are moving aggressively and with
urgency on the following actions. We plan to further rationalize our manufacturing footprint and
reduce excess capacity through our Fab Right strategy. These actions will reduce our
underutilization absorption as we lower our fixed cost structure. We expect to see the result of
these actions to positively impact the income statement in late 2025 and continue driving margin
expansion towards our long-term target by providing greater leverage in our business model as
the market recovers.
We will make structural changes across the company to reduce our operating expenses. We're
exploring a number of options including rationalization of our product portfolio, headcount
reductions and potential site closures. We expect to see a meaningful impact of these actions as
early as the second quarter.
We will continue R&D investments in differentiated high-margin products to support our long-
term growth. And we will focus on free cash flow generation in 2025 as we manage working
capital tightly and reduce capital spending to our revised intensity target of mid-single digit
percentage range in 2025.
We generated $422 million of free cash flow in Q4 as 39% increase sequentially. We're
committed to our long-term target of returning 50% of free cash flow to shareholders through
our share repurchase program. And in 2024, we exceeded it by returning 54% or approximately
$650 million. This includes $200 million of share repurchases in the fourth quarter. And there'sTurning to revenue for the fourth quarter, a slowdown in demand across all in markets resulted in
revenue of $1.72 billion. Automotive and industrial accounted for 84% of revenue in the fourth
quarter. Automotive revenue was $1.03 billion which increased 8% sequentially driven by
programs that ramped in Silicon Carbide. Revenue for industrial was $417 million, down 5%
sequentially.
Inventory digestion persists and we saw further degradation in the traditional parts of industrial
offset by pockets of growth in medical. Outside of auto and industrial, our other business
declined 24% quarter-over-quarter and more than was seasonally expected. We have seen early
signs of pricing pressures in pockets of these non-core in markets which we will not pursue and
exit over time if the volatility returns to historical levels.
Looking at the fourth quarter split by the business units, revenue for the Power Solutions Group or
PSG was $809 million, a decrease of 2% quarter-over-quarter and 16% year-over-year. Revenue
for the analog and mixed signal group or AMG was $611 million, a decrease of 7% quarter-over-
quarter and a decrease of 18% year-over-year. Revenue for the Intelligent Sensing Group or ISG
was $303 million, a 9% increase quarter-over-quarter. ISG revenue decreased 2% over the same
quarter last year.
Turning to gross margin in the fourth quarter, GAAP gross margin was 45.2% and non-GAAP gross
margin was 45.3%, down 20 basis points sequentially and 140 basis points from the quarter a
year ago. Manufacturing utilization decreased to 59% in Q4, as we aggressively took action late in
the quarter to match our demand visibility.
Now let me give you some additional numbers for your models. GAAP operating expenses for
the fourth quarter were $371 million, as compared to $330 million in the fourth quarter of 2023.
Non-GAAP operating expenses were $321 million, compared to $306 million in the quarter a year
ago. Non-GAAP operating expenses increased sequentially due to the timing of R&D project
expenses. GAAP operating margin for the quarter was 23.7% and non-GAAP operating margin
was 26.7%. Our GAAP tax rate was 14.2% and our non-GAAP tax rate was 16%. Diluted GAAP
earnings per share for the fourth quarter was $0.88, as compared to $1.28 in the quarter a year
ago. Non-GAAP earnings per share was $0.95, as compared to $1.25 in Q4 of 2023. GAAP diluted
share count was 430 million shares and our non-GAAP diluted share count was 426 million shares.
Turning to the balance sheet, cash in short-term investments was $3 billion with total liquidity of
$4.1 billion including $1.1 billion undrawn on a revolver. Cash from operations was $580 million and
free cash flow increased 39% sequentially to $422 million representing 25% of revenue. For the
year, we generated almost $1.2 billion of free cash flow. Capital expenditures during Q4 were $157
million which equates to a capital intensity of 9%. Inventory was flat quarter-over-quarter on a
dollar basis and increased by three days to 216 days. This includes 100 days of bridge inventory
to support fab transitions and silicon carbide. We are nearing the completion of these strategic
builds and expect this inventory to peak in the first half of 2025 as we ship and convert the
inventory to cash. Excluding the strategic builds, our base inventory is at 116 days, which continues
to be within our target range of 100 to 120 days.
Distribution inventory declined $55 million, with weeks of inventory remaining relatively flat at 9.6
versus 9.7 weeks in Q3. Our plan to change the mix in the channel to support the mass market
has resulted in an 18% increase in customer count year-over-year. We expect distribution weeks
of inventory to be plus or minus 10 weeks going forward.
Looking forward, let me provide you the key elements of our non-GAAP guidance for the first
quarter. As a reminder, today's press release contains a table detailing our GAAP and non-GAAPguidance.
Given our visibility, we anticipate Q1 revenue will be in the range of $1.35 billion to $1.45 billion. We
expect non-GAAP gross margin to be between 39 and 41%, with utilization declining to mid-50%
in Q1. This includes share-based compensation of $7 million.
At the midpoint of our guidance, approximately half of the quarter-on-quarter change in gross
margin is attributable to the drop in revenue as the under absorption is calculated on a lower
revenue number. An additional 100 basis points is due to unfavorable product mix, and the
remainder is driven by lower utilization, which now drives a 20 to 25 basis points change in gross
margin for every 100 basis points of utilization at these lower utilization levels. This change is due
to the higher fixed cost as a portion of total factory cost. As the market recovers and utilization
improves, we will see significant leverage in our gross margin as these costs dissipate, and we
recognize the benefit of our Fab Right cost reductions.
Moving on to non-GAAP operating expenses, we expect OpEx to be in the range of $313 million
to $328 million, including share-based compensation of $38.1 million. We anticipate our non-GAAP
other income to be a net benefit of $14 million with our interest income exceeding interest
expense.
We expect our non-GAAP tax rate to be approximately 16%, and our non-GAAP diluted share
count is expected to be approximately $425 million shares. This results in non-GAAP earnings per
share to be in the range of $0.45 to $0.55. We expect capital expenditures in the range of $110
million to $150 million.
As you can see, we are not standing still. The structural changes we plan on making will position
us to react quickly and favorably to changing market conditions. We believe electrification, AI data
center, and renewable energy are still the major growth drivers for our industry over the next
decade. And we remain confident our technology and innovations in these markets will allow us
to capitalize on those trends.
With that, I'll turn the call back over to Kevin to open it up for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from `Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank Research with Deutsche
Bank. Your line is open.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank Research `
Hi, guys. Thanks for the question. First question, I want to get into the structural versus cyclical
side. You guys have been conservative for quite some time on a cyclical basis, probably one of
the first ones. But yet, the magnitude of this drop is very significant. Hassane, I know you talked
about late in the quarter things, kind of fell apart from a demand perspective. But how much of
this do you believe to be on specific versus the end market? And just from a revenue basis, are
you at all concerned that the structural end market or product portfolio needs larger adjustment
and isn't going to be as resilient as you hoped?
A - `Hassane El Khoury, President, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorNo, look, I think that the big change in the precipitous, the one thing I can say that is on specific is
the non-core business that has seen the largest decline. And we've been very consistent not to
play in that volatility. If you recall, when we started the transformation, we had a big portion, call it
$800 million to $900 million of non-core business where we said we would exit. We only exited
about half of that. And we're seeing, with that extended downturn, we're seeing more and more
volatility in that pricing. But we remain consistent with our strategy that we're not going to play in
this highly volatile. And we're going to maintain the value of our core products, which is where
we're investing. Think Treo, think silicon carbide, think in the medical and so on. All of these are
where the growth is going to come from. And in the short-term, as we see the volatility, we're not
going to participate, yet we will choose to rationalize our portfolio further and match our capacity
accordingly.
A - `Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
And Ross, I would add just the size of that business that Hassane is talking about, the non-core,
it's roughly $350 million to $400 million that is more volatile that as this downturn extends, that is,
we will exit over time, just to put a sizing to it.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank Research `
Thanks for that, Thad. And then I guess along the lines of the sizing side of things. You talked
about some of the structural actions you are going to take on the cost front as soon as 2Q and
then some of the benefits potentially on the COGS side coming into the back half. Any sort of
color as far as putting magnitudes around those?
A - `Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
No. Not at this point. We're still working on the plans. We'll give updates throughout the quarter
as we solidify those plans. So, expect some updates as we go.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank Research `
Thank you.
Operator
One moment for our next question. Our next question comes from `Vivek Arya, BofA Global Research with Deutsche --
I'm sorry, with Bank of America Securities. Your line is open.
Q - `Vivek Arya, BofA Global Research `
Thanks for taking my question. Just first kind of a few clarifications. So Q1, what are you expecting
for the sequential segment trends in automotive, industrial, and other segments? And I think you
mentioned something unfavorable in the mix.
And then any early look at Q2 seasonality? Because I found what everyone is obviously trying to
guess is, what is the path of recovery for ON from here?
A - `Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So by end market, Vivek, automotive is going to be down the most. We think that's going to
be probably 25% or more down sequentially. When you look at industrial and other, we think it's
going to be down mid-to high-single digit sequentially.A - `Hassane El Khoury, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
And look, -- and on the visibility side we're sticking with visibility of about a quarter. Of course, we
have some looks into Q2, but it's too early to talk about seasonality in Q2, given really the
volatility and backdrop of between geopolitical and tariffs as early as over the weekend.
So, we're not going to be talking about Q2 yet, as we get more and more visibility, we'll update
them. But as far as recovery, look, I think I know what others have said. It's a lot of the,
everybody's talking about, oh, the second half would be better than the first half and so on. It's
the same string that everybody's pulling that they did in 2024. I don't subscribe to that. I
subscribe to the data I see, and we're going to manage the company to the data we see.
Because getting it at this point will just be upside for us as the market recovers. And I'd rather
have that and be right in that aspect versus hope for a recovery, run the company, and if the
recovery doesn't come, now you have a headwind. I'd rather all of that work that we do now, like
that said, not standing still to be a tailwind for us, whether there's a recovery or not.
Q - `Vivek Arya, BofA Global Research `
And for my follow-up, Hassane, so if I look at Q1 automotive, I think you mentioned down 25%, so
let's say $70-ish million or so, it is sort of reset back to mid-22 levels. But it is still well above the
levels we saw pre-COVID, right, which were in the $400 million, $500 million quarterly range.
What is the right baseline that we should have when we start to think about automotive business
for long periods of time? Because we have seen industrial businesses get reset back to much
lower levels, but automotive is still above the 2019 levels. It's closer to '22 levels. So, how do you
think about what is that right baseline? When was automotive at the right baseline level for us to
project it? What have been the effects of LTSA, pricing, content, EV, silicon carbide, et cetera, that
will help us project what your automotive business can be over the next several years as you start
to normalize? Thank you.
A - `Hassane El Khoury, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
Yes, look, I think from looking for -- it's hard to talk about baseline, given all the changes that
we've done to our portfolio. And you mentioned some of them, the growth in silicon carbide,
which is not just a growth in silicon carbide, but a mixed shift even on the ASP side. A silicon
carbide module is a much higher dollar content than some, for example, the discreets we used to
ship more of prior. So, from a unit, you can expect a unit decline, but revenue went up. So, it's
hard to get a baseline given how drastic our portfolio has shifted over the last, even two to three
years.
But moving forward, our long-term view, which remains consistent, outside of the market
environment today, our long-term view remains consistent, which is SAR plus, call it high to low-
teens, or sorry, from high-single digit to low-teens. That's the range over SAR, so, which is what
we're seeing. That, I would say, is the baseline that we are building to and the baseline we are
investing in to, which is both a mixed shift into higher value products, especially as, for example,
we start introducing Treo, which comes with a margin expansion as well towards our long-term
target. So, moving forward, that's how you can think about it, but it's hard to go backwards and
talk about a baseline just because of the shift that we've done over the last few years.
Q - `Vivek Arya, BofA Global Research `
Thank you.
OperatorOne moment for our next question. Our next question comes from `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs with Goldman
Sachs. Your line is open.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs `
Hi. Good morning. Thank you so much for taking the question. Hassane, I wanted to go back to
the automotive outlook for Q1, down, call it 25% sequentially, this outlook is much worse than
many of your peers. I'm just curious what's driving the delta there. Is it pricing? Is there a non-core
component within automotive? Any additional context or color there would be really helpful.
Thank you.
A - `Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So, of course, there's a non-core business component to it, as I mentioned. So, that's built
into the fourth quarter, but some of it is the silicon carbide. We've always said Silicon Carbide
quarter-on-quarter is lumpy. We've had a great second half, however, it's all driven by China.
China today is looking at a softer Q1. I think that's temporary as it digests the inventory that
they've built. It's not our inventory, but I'm talking about the vehicle inventory. We're monitoring
that.
You have an early Chinese New Year. Some of the Chinese customers have done an extended
shutdown in order to absorb that inventory. So, net-net, I don't worry about that quarter-on-
quarter lumpiness as I look at it over a multi-quarter period. We're still gaining share, both in
China and some of the European names. I've said it before, they're not ramping at the rate that
we expected, but they're still ramping, which is what drove the second half of 2024.
So, quarter-on-quarter, the number is what the visibility shows, but the structural changes in the
business and the outlook remain unchanged.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs `
That's helpful, thank you. And then maybe one for Thad. You talked about rationalizing your
portfolio. You talked about reviewing your manufacturing footprint. As you draw up your forward
strategy and your plans, is the aspiration to kind of hold on to the 2027 model that you guys
shared with us a couple of years ago, i.e., gross margins of 53%, operating margins of 40% or, I
realize the backdrop is very different at this point, so should we think about, should we assume
you guys are looking at sort of a different or updated long-term model at this point? Thank you.
A - `Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Look, we still remain committed to that 53% target. If you look at the gross margin in the short-
term, it's all impacted by utilization, right? I talked about the moving pieces, but utilization is the
largest headwind that we have right now.
Assuming the market recovers, and we continue to execute on our Fab Right, we will right-size
our manufacturing to fit the size of the company here, and we don't need that top line revenue
that was in that original target, but we do remain committed to that 53% gross margin target. If
you look at the gross margin actions that we're taking now, it's primarily a lot of non-cash actions,
if you think about it, and it'll generate strong free cash flows as we think about this year and in
'26, and then obviously as we go into '27 and hit that target, we believe we'll hit that.
But even if you look at '25 from a free cash flow standpoint, we believe we're going to hit that
target model of free cash flow of 25% to 30% in 2025 for the year. We achieved it in Q4 of '24with a 25% free cash flow margin, and we believe we'll continue to generate strong free on free-
cash flow going forward.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you so much.
Operator
One moment for our next question. Our next question comes from `Christopher Danely, Citi with Citi.
Your line is open.
Q - `Christopher Danely, Citi `
Hey, thanks guys. I guess for the rest of the year, how would you expect the auto versus the
industrial growth to trend? Do you expect auto to recover after Q1 or no visibility at all?
A - `Hassane El Khoury, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
It's too early to talk about the rest of the year to be honest with you. We know what designs we
have. We know what designs we're ramping. At this point, the shares have been gained. The
designs have been qualified. It's purely an end market demand right now.
A - `Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, and we do believe that we're still under shipping natural demand. So at some point, you got
to come back to that level. It's just a matter of when.
Q - `Christopher Danely, Citi `
That's fair. And then a question on silicon carbide. With this decline, are you guys reassessing your
long-term targets in silicon carbide as far as growth or margin scale?
A - `Hassane El Khoury, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
No, not on the margin, because you can think about it, it's a demand. So as far as growth is
concerned, outside of the short-term lumpiness and the volatility and really the EV, our long-term
growth, we aim to be the leaders in the market from a market share perspective. And we aim to
run the highest profitability silicon carbide business. We have given the innovations that we
believe we bring to the customer. So that remains unchanged. There will be some strategic
reviews of the capacity. But overall, we're focused on that market and that will remain a tailwind
for us, both on growth and margin.
Q - `Christopher Danely, Citi `
Thanks, guys.
Operator
One moment for our next question. Our next question comes from `Blayne Curtis, Jefferies of Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Q - `Blayne Curtis, Jefferies `Hey, thanks for taking our question. I had two. I was kind of curious. I wanted to go back to the
non-strategic business. You said $350 million or $400 million. Just how much of that, in terms of
the guidance for March, are you planning on some of that delta coming out in March? Or is that
something that would be on top of what you're seeing in March and would come out further in
the year if you make those decisions?
A - `Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
No, look, we think that if that business, if we do lose that business because of pricing, it'll happen
over a multi-quarter period. So it's not all baked into Q1. It's further out into the year. And like I
said, that will really be market dependent at that point. We'll keep that business if it's good
margin, like it has been historically. But if the pricing continues to drop, we'll just let it wither away
over time.
Q - `Blayne Curtis, Jefferies `
Got you. And then I want to ask the auto demand by geography. You actually were up in
December. A lot of people saw China's strength, I think you called that out. I'm just kind of curious
if you can just talk about March demand by geography in auto.
A - `Hassane El Khoury, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
Yes, I think in general, we expect it to be down. I don't think we can call out, relatively speaking,
there are some regions that are better than others, but the growth that we've had was China, as
I spoke about in my prepared remarks. And getting into Q1, I highlighted the early Chinese year,
and they expect it to shut down.
So that's, again, a demand environment. We are in these sockets. We ramped in the fourth
quarter as customers sell through their inventory, meaning the inventory of cars, not our inventory
with them, but the cars. As that inventory sells through, they will replenish, and we'll see the
orders recover. So that's the uncertainty because it's purely a consumer confidence end game.
As we get better visibility after the Chinese New Year, we will be able to get more clarity on how
the rest of the year will be.
Q - `Blayne Curtis, Jefferies `
Thanks.
Operator
One moment for our next question. Our next question comes from `Joshua Buchalter, TD Cowen with TD
Cowen and your line is open.
Q - `Joshua Buchalter, TD Cowen `
Hey guys, thanks for taking my question. I also wanted to ask about the first quarter gross margin.
So, you walk through the 100 basis points of unfavorable mix and then the new rule of thumb
adding probably 100, 150 basis points headwind as well. Can you sort of, I guess, provide more
details on the remaining part of the sequential decline and also any more details you can give on
what specifically is driving the unfavorable mix, given it sounds like you're walking away from
business as is. Thank you.
A - `Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `Yes. So, starting with the gross margin, if you do the walk from Q4 to the midpoint of our
guidance in Q1, and I said this in our prepared statement here, the half of it, roughly half of that
decline is a calculation change in the under absorption. So, if you think about the under absorption
on a lower revenue number, that's driving half of that margin delta right there.
There's 100 basis points from the unfavorable product mix. And then there's, you do the math,
it's roughly about 150 basis points from the underutilization as we drop utilization down further.
The mix is just purely a product mix. If you think about the long tail of customers that we talk
about in some of that, some of these businesses that's, what is remaining soft, some of this
industrial soft. So, it's purely just a product mix unfavorability kind of in the short term here. We
believe that over the long-term that will come back as well.
So, if you think about whenever there's a recovery and revenue comes back, you will get that half
of that delta just with the revenue increase, because it's a pure calculation. Does that make
sense, Josh?
Q - `Joshua Buchalter, TD Cowen `
Yes. Thank you, Thad. Then for my follow-up, you mentioned, sort of inventory levels coming
down at your Auto Tier 1 customers. Any metrics you can give us on how much inventory you
expect to be able to strip out downstream at your Tier 1s and where levels, I guess, are now and
where you expect them to be exiting the first quarter? Thank you.
A - `Hassane El Khoury, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
Yes. Look, it's not really an industry response, because every Tier 1, depending on their financial
and the strength of their balance sheet are taking a different approach to inventory. It's hard to
get 100 % visibility there. I mean, we work with customers. As we see orders, our priority is
depleting, so we're not pushing inventory out. That's why Thad mentioned we believe we are
well under-shipping demand at some point that will recover. However, the inventory levels that
our customer is really, directly correlated to what the demand is, and as demand deteriorated,
inventory looks elevated and they will keep taking action. So it's a moving target, but it is not
industry specific. We have some Tier 1s we work with that have already achieved it, so we're
already shipping through demand. But in general, there's still a lot of inventory digestion across
the industry.
Q - `Joshua Buchalter, TD Cowen `
Thank you.
Operator
One moment for our next question. Our next question comes from `Vijay Rakesh, Mizuho Securities USA with Mizuho.
Your line is open.
Q - `Vijay Rakesh, Mizuho Securities USA `
Yes. Hi, Hassane and Thad. I'm just wondering, when you look at the fab utilization, how that
should play out over the next couple of quarters, I guess, after 1Q, like do you see that it's flat
and maybe second half picking up or is there some trend?
A - `Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `Well, look, utilization is all going to be demand-driven, right? We said that in Q1, our utilization will
drop to the mid 50% range from 59% here in Q4. So we've already taken that action. For what
we can see right now, we'll kind of be running in that range plus or minus, until we see demand
recovery. Once we see the demand recovery, utilization will go up and then there's the natural
latency until you see gross margin improvement. That'll happen when we see the market recover.
Q - `Vijay Rakesh, Mizuho Securities USA `
Got it. And in terms of the silicon carbide outlook, I think you said might be up year-on-year. Just
wondering if any color on that and the backlog, how that's trending there as well. Thanks.
A - `Hassane El Khoury, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
The only comment I made is we're designed in. We gained the share. We saw that in the strength
getting into the second half of '24. At this moment, 2025 is purely a demand. We're gaining share
across - all across all major customers, but at this point in time, it is what they will end up
achieving from, call it vehicle, EV vehicle sales, we will ramp accordingly. But we're in a very good
position with the customers. It's purely an end-demand commentary.
Q - `Vijay Rakesh, Mizuho Securities USA `
Thank you.
Operator
One moment for our next question. Our next question comes from `Christopher Rolland, Susquehanna Financial Group with
Susquehanna. Your line is open.
Q - `Christopher Rolland, Susquehanna Financial Group `
Hey, thanks for the question, guys. Some others look like they're starting to see stabilization. And
so, I'm wondering about the delta there. Could this have been related to your emphasis on
LTSAs? And with auto down, let's say 25% quarter-over-quarter, I wouldn't imagine everyone's
complying to LTSAs, just given that drop. So, do you think part of this kind of delayed response is
around LTSAs, and then secondly, should we expect them to be renegotiated moving forward
here?
A - `Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, we don't believe so, because our stance we have been very consistent across even the last
couple of years that we've been negotiating LTSAs. We've been negotiating LTSAs to match
demand as closely as the visibility at the time. Some LTSAs have been negotiated multiple times.
It's not something new that we're doing in Q1 of '25 as a response. That's been a consistent and
continuous effort that we have with the customer on really landing onto what I call the win-win.
So, I don't believe that's got, those two are related. I don't think the LTSA, call it amendment or
negotiation, has accelerated. We've been consistent throughout 2024 as we are with the
customers trying to land to what the real demand environment is, because we, what we did, and
again, I've been very consistent with that. We're not going to overship demand just to adhere to
the LTSAs.
So, your comment, are customers abiding by the LTSAs? They are, but they're a change in the
LTSAs over the last few quarters, call it, just to be able to land where they believe, and we
believe a healthy inventory digestion happens in order for us to get back to what the naturaldemand is. That's been our approach for the last few years. That remains our approach even into
2025.
Q - `Christopher Rolland, Susquehanna Financial Group `
Excellent, and there was not a lot of discussion around image sensor. I'm just wondering how
much of that auto weakness is related to image sensor. Is there anything to note in terms of
pricing or competition or internalization in China? How would you classify how would you classify
image sensor overall?
A - `Hassane El Khoury, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
I think image sensor has been more stable. I wouldn't call anything up or down. Our approach for
image sensor has been the same for the last few years. We want -- We've been, call it, trimming
our portfolio. We're not aiming to be number one market share with atrocious profits. We've used
shortages in the last few years because, remember, all that business is outsourced. What we've
done over the last few years is we focused our efforts and refocus our image sensing business to
what we call machine vision, where the quality of the image sensor is where the value comes in
because it's really processed directly by a machine versus an LCD. That's been ongoing.
We're happy with the consistency of that business. We are ramping the 8 megapixel as the
market shifts, but that business is, I would call it, more stable. We do see competition and we're
attacking it as we see fit. But again, just like I mentioned on overall portfolio, we are focusing
where we add value, not where we can just ship units.
Q - `Christopher Rolland, Susquehanna Financial Group `
Thanks, Hassane.
Operator
One moment for our next question. Our next question comes from `Gary Mobley, Loop Capital Markets with Loop
Capital. Your line is open.
Q - `Gary Mobley, Loop Capital Markets `
Hey, guys. Thanks for taking my question. You're clear on your messaging with respect to non-
core products and the pricing pressures in that particular product group, but maybe if you could
talk about pricing trends for some of the core products. I presume you just went through annual
price negotiations. Perhaps you can give us an update on pricing trends there for the vast majority
of your business.
A - `Hassane El Khoury, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
Yes. Look, I think what people refer to the annual price negotiation, which is a Q4 negotiation with
an impact in Q1, we're not seeing that. Are there benefits and efficiencies that we have done in
our product? We've talked about our Fab Right. We've talked about taking costs out of the
products. Of course, as we do that, customers see some of that benefit as our margin expands
from a, call it standard margin. If I take out the underutilization that Thad walked you through, I
focus really, when I talk about value of the products, I focus on our standard margin taking out the
manufacturing underutilization in the short-term.
If I look at that, that's been very consistent because we are offsetting whatever discussions we
have with the customer. We're offsetting it with efficiencies of our own internally. Those I wouldn'tcall it pricing negotiation. Those are efficiencies because the typical pricing negotiation that you're
referring to, look, there's no demand out there, so you give price reduction just for the heck of it,
then you end up with a gross margin headwind and no additional demand. There is no demand
elasticity based on proprietary products, which is where our focus has been.
But from an efficiency perspective, of course, we are working with customers to support their
transition to our new products as we gain those efficiencies. But net-net, it's good for margin and
good for the customer.
Q - `Gary Mobley, Loop Capital Markets `
Okay. As my follow-up, I want to ask about silicon carbide wafer sourcing. The market overall for
devices clearly underperformed expectations in 2024, and there seems to be more adequate
supply of raw wafers coming from China. So, any update on your internal sourcing of raw and epi
wafers, whether that be internal or external?
A - `Hassane El Khoury, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
No. We've been -- well, we do both internal and external. We have a lot of sources qualified
externally, and we will manage the transition internal-external. As far as mix, there's, first, what
you have to think about is the certainty of supply in a backdrop of geopolitical uncertainty. If you
take that out, we are basically balancing our internal and external. We have qualified both internal
and external.
As I mentioned in my prepared remarks, we've also qualified 200 millimeters. We've qualified the
350-micron-thick substrates, which is state-of-the-art today, from a silicon carbide wafer
thickness. Those are running in the Fab, and we've sampled customers.
So, from an execution perspective, we're on track. From a mix perspective, we have full flexibility.
We believe we're in the best of both worlds where we can do internal-external, and we will
continue to refine the mix between internal-external as we proceed through 2025 and as we get
some stability and clarity in the geopolitical environment.
Q - `Gary Mobley, Loop Capital Markets `
Thanks, Hassane.
Operator
One moment for our next question. Our next question comes from `Joe Quatrochi, Wells Fargo Securities with Wells
Fargo. Your line is open.
Q - `Joe Quatrochi, Wells Fargo Securities `
Thanks for taking the question. On the $350 million to $400 million price-sensitive revenue that
you're thinking this year, are there any end markets or geographies in particular that we should
think about as being more price-sensitive or more aggressive there?
A - `Hassane El Khoury, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
No, I think it's more of a product rather than a region. What I mean by that is more market
products. Now, it could be that some of these markets are more skewed to a region, but we
don't look at it as a region. We don't have local pricing practices based on region. We look at it as
a product and end markets. So, that's kind of how I look at the non-core revenue.Q - `Joe Quatrochi, Wells Fargo Securities `
Got it, that's helpful. And then I think in your deck, you talked about AI, data center revenue
growing more than 40% in 2024. Just wondering how you're thinking about the growth
opportunity in '25 with the potential acceleration from the JFET business.
A - `Hassane El Khoury, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
We expect that business to continue to grow as we've had some penetration in the second half
of '24. Of course, that will continue to grow on an annual basis. We do have some platforms that
we are designed in, and those will start adding up to the 2025. So we're on beat with the design
cycle in that market with our new products and looking forward, our trail platform with the fast
time to market and really the integration will start getting us faster beat, so we can do more and
more aggressive portfolio introductions for that. But we're in a good spot today, that growth will
continue in '25.
Q - `Joe Quatrochi, Wells Fargo Securities `
Thanks.
Operator
One moment for our next question. Our next question comes from `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus with Stifel,
your line is open.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus `
Yes, thank you. I had a question about gross margin and when the recovery comes. Should we still
think about the 20 to 25 basis points in improvement per increase in utilization? And I assume
that that's sort of a comment prior to some of these site changes that you are considering.
A - `Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, that's right. And you should think about the 20 to 25 as this from here up to low-60, right?
After that, go back to the 15 to 20 basis points, right? As you just get the scale there. So the
change there was the fact that our fixed costs are becoming a larger percent of the overall
factory costs. You can only cut so much variable costs, right? And so we're kind of getting down
when you're stepping down into the 50% range, you're kind of hitting up against that. So you'll
get to a point where you start to get some scale and then we go back to the 15 to 20 basis
points. Similar to the numbers we've given you in the past. But yes, that is all based on current
capacity.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus `
Great, that's very helpful. And as my follow up on Treo, how should we sort of track the financial
success of that business? Are you going to be perhaps sharing with us the revenue associated to
that business or the impact of gross margin in any given quarter? Just trying to understand
financially how we should track the success of Treo.
A - `Hassane El Khoury, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
No, the intent for me is to give you kind of the updates as we report on, call it the early milestone
because those are the leading indicators. So what you'd expect is product introductions,
confirmation of the margin profile, and maybe at maybe at some point, depending on thecustomer and their willingness, is a joint announcement with customers as they design it in. We
have customers, as I mentioned, that are starting, will start to ramp in 2025, so first revenue is
actually going to happen, but don't expect to update on a quarterly beat or on an annual beat at
that level of granularity.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus `
That's helpful. Thank you, Hassane.
Operator
One moment for our next question. Our next question comes from Harsh Kumar with Piper
Sandler. Your line is open.
Q - `Harsh V. Kumar, Piper Sandler Companies `
Yes, Hassane and Thad, I have two qualitative ones for you. I think earlier you mentioned that
you're still under shipping relative to your true demand, so I was curious if you could give us an
idea, starting off with the guide that you gave for the March quarter, if you were just to kind of
give us an idea of what your true demand estimate is. In other words, how much are you under
shipping or what is the market able to take for your business if you were not to under ship?
A - `Thad Trent, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
That's a hard one because unless you have, first, unless you have 100% visibility of what the
inventory is by customer, but also demand is a moving target. Demand has not stabilized as
we've talked about, and I think some of my peers have talked about, different peers talk about
different end markets, but I think what's consistent across the board is demand has not really
landed and stabilized. So, as that's a moving target, inventory remains or inventory levels that the
customers would like to achieve remains a moving target. That's why when we talk about, at
some point it has to snap back and we'll see that when we get there, but today we're just
managing to what we can see. While we're making sure we don't over ship, but, back to the LTSA
question, which is a reason we keep negotiating the LTSAs, we want to make sure we are at or
below demand in order to accelerate to the extent we can the inventory burn so we do get to a
normalized view soon.
Q - `Harsh V. Kumar, Piper Sandler Companies `
I got it. Okay. And then I wanted to ask you about one of your neighboring companies and based
in Arizona also. They supposedly had some of the worst inventory problems, and their guide
wasn't as bad as perhaps yours. I mean, neither the automotive nor the total guide, and I was
curious what the puts are. I'm not asking you to comment on their business, but I'm trying to
understand, I guess what I'm trying to say is are you trying to pad for some level of decline that
you're building based on your judgment or are you strictly giving us a guide based on what you're
seeing?
A - `Hassane El Khoury, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
It's purely based on what I can see. I don't give a guide and I'm not running the company based
on what peers have done. Of course, I look at the peers, what peers have done across, the
quarter and across their earnings and what they look at, but everything you get from everything
you get from me is purely in context of ON Semi, because everybody has a different portfolio,
everybody has a different strategy, so I can't really peg anything to it.From a -- however, what I would say is from an inventory, and the inventory I can't control, from an
internal inventory and distri inventory. Our internal inventory, clicked up in days, but in dollars,
consistent. So, we have been very disciplined about maintaining and not letting our inventory get
out of line. So, the margin that you see is a pure margin, not inflated by an inventory build at all.
So that's point number one, where our discipline comes in.
From a distri, you've also seen us be very consistent on our distri. Actually, the distribution
inventory in Q4 dropped $55 million. So, we drained, as we saw the softness in Q4, towards the
end of Q4, we took decisive action and we reduced the distri inventory by $55 million in the
quarter.
So, the inventory that we have visibility and the ones we control, we are very disciplined. Again, so
when we see a recovery happen, we turn on manufacturing, utilization goes up, revenue goes up,
and margin will go up accordingly. That's what we're running the company to achieve, and that's
what we'll continue to focus on, the stuff that we can control.
Q - `Harsh V. Kumar, Piper Sandler Companies `
That's fair. Thank you, guys.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen let's conclude the Q&A portion of today's conference call. I'd like to turn
the call back over to `Hassane El Khoury, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director, President and CEO, for any further remarks.
A - `Hassane El Khoury, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
Thank you all for joining us on the call this morning, and I want to thank our worldwide employees,
again, for their perseverance through this downturn. Remaining focused on operational
excellence and innovation will enable us to continue to drive value for our customers and
shareholders and emerge stronger than we were going into this.
We intend to provide additional information on our progress at a future date. Thank you.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's presentation. You may now disconnect and
have a wonderful day.