Q4 2015 Earnings Call

Operator
Good morning and good afternoon, and welcome to the Novartis Q4 Full Year 2015 Results
Conference Call and live audio webcast. Please note that during the presentation, all participants
will be in listen-only mode and the conference is being recorded. A recording of the conference
call, including the Q&A session, will be available on our website shortly after the call ends.
With that, I would like to handover to Mr. Joe Jimenez, CEO of Novartis. Please go ahead, sir.
Joseph Jimenez `
Thank you. I'd like to welcome everybody to our full-year results. In the room with me today I have
Harry Kirsch, CFO; David Epstein, the Head of Pharma; and Richard Francis, the Head of the
Sandoz Division.
Now, before we get started, I'd like Samir to read the Safe Harbor Statement.
Samir Shah `
Thank you, Joe. The information presented in this conference call contains forward-looking
statements that involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors. These maycause actual results to be materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such statements.
Please refer to the company's form 20-F on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission for
a description of some of these factors.
Joseph Jimenez `
Thank you, Samir. Okay. Starting on slide number five, I'm going to give an overview of our results
and also talk about some of the changes that we announced in the company for 2016. So overall,
you look at our underlying results on a constant-currency basis and sales were up 5%. We had a
double-digit increase in core operating income. We were able to grow our core margin a 130
basis points and even with the impact of currency, we were able to grow margin in this
environment.
Now, the best part of the year really was the innovation, which we'll go through in a minute, but
on slide six, you can see an overview of our financials. Core EPS, up 10% to $5.01. Interesting to
note on this slide, net income is down versus a year ago, but it's highly impacted by the
exceptional gains that we had in 2014, specifically, the sale of shares in Idenix based on the Merck
acquisition, as well as LTS Lohmann and some exceptional charges we had this year related to
Venezuela. So that's not really a factor in our underlying performance, but that's why that number
looks negative.
Now, at the beginning of the year, I laid out five priorities for the company, and I want to hit each
of them, starting on slide number eight with the financial results. You can see both the
Pharmaceuticals and the Sandoz Divisions had very strong years with mid-to-high single-digit
sales growth and double-digit core operating income growth, and this offset a weak performance
on the Alcon Division, which we'll get into also.
Innovation, though, was very strong. On the next slide, you can see we had 20 major approvals in
2015, Entresto and Cosentyx, David is going to go into in pretty good detail. But just looking at
the U.S. with 45 FDA approvals of new molecules, Novartis had, by far, the most with four new
molecules approved and I think it's a statement of the innovation power of this company. The
third priority was to complete our portfolio transformation, and we did this ahead of time. The
integration has gone extremely well with the GSK oncology business, as well as the separation of
animal health, flu vaccines, non-flu vaccines and the OTC business into the joint venture. So I feel
like, we executed that well. We're now off and running and we're a stronger and more focused
company.
Now NBS has executed well on its priorities in 2015 to help us capture these cross-divisional
synergies. Costs under their management were held flat and this was enabling the company to
show margin improvement. This was one component of the margin improvement that we saw for
the company.
And then finally, our fifth priority was to build a high-performing organization and really good
performance on quality assurance, 98% of our inspections were good or acceptable and the
other 2% are pending, outstanding.
So let me talk a little bit more about 2016 and the changes that we announced this morning and I
want to talk about two topics. The first is the Alcon growth plan, and then I want to talk about how
we're taking our strategy forward with some group-wide changes.So let's start with Alcon. Stepping back and just looking where we compete. Ophthalmology is a
very attractive sector within healthcare, so it's large, it's profitable, and it's growing. It's going to
continue to grow based on the aging population and a high level of unmet medical need. Alcon
is, by far, the leader in this sector and when you ask a physician what company they admire and
recommend and prefer to work with in this space, the vast majority is Alcon. But Alcon growth
slowed, as we all know in 2015, we were down a point. The fourth quarter was more severe than
that. And so, we stepped back and we conducted a very extensive analysis on Alcon to
understand the underlying issues. We talked to customers, we did analysis and we really came to
the root causes of the underperformance.
The first is insufficient innovation, right? We are not replacing the products where we're losing
patent protection, and so the question is why? And I'm going to get into that in a minute. But we
also went probably too far from a cost standpoint and we have reduced some of the customer
focus that this company was famous for, the evangelical focus on the physician surrounding that
surgeon. There are also some capabilities in Alcon that need to be upgraded and strengthened.
So let me hit on each of those. The first is, I really asked, why do we not have the kind of
innovation that the other divisions have, and if you pick it apart, we're operating two models in
the Alcon Division. A medical devices model that is very different than a Pharmaceutical model in
terms of how you generate innovation. So, medical devices, high frequency, very iterative
development, sitting in the OR with the surgeon, understanding what they need, how can we
make their life better, incremental innovation. On the Pharmaceutical side, it's higher spend,
scientific discovery, longer term and we were sub-optimizing both by having them both in Alcon.
We're under spending on Pharmaceuticals and didn't have quite the scientific depth. We were
treating medical devices a little bit like Pharmaceuticals. So, that's the first.
The second is that we pulled back a little bit too much on surgeon education and training. You talk
to our physicians, they are still of the belief that Alcon's really the only game in town when it
comes to cataract surgery and ophthalmology, but they also noticed that we've had issues in the
last 12 months. So that's the second area that needs to be fixed.
And the third area that needs to be fixed is that we don't yet have the kind of capabilities in the
Pharmaceutical side of Alcon that we need. I mean in terms of targeting, in terms of messaging,
it's still a relatively small unit.
So the growth plan for Alcon has three core elements. The first is, we're going to focus the
business, we're going to strengthen that foundation that I talked about, and we're going to put
some more money behind those assets that we have right in front of us, so we don't have to wait
two or three years to see a turn.
In terms of focusing the business, we're going to focus Alcon on the Surgical and the Vision Care
business, so that gives management a 100% focus on this medical devices side of the business.
We're going to move Ophtha Pharma into our Pharmaceutical Division where the full force of a
great development organization, a great commercial organization, can drive that Ophtha Pharma
business in a way that will benefit the whole company.
Now, importantly, we're going to maintain the Alcon brand name both from a sales rep
standpoint and from a product standpoint. And the reason for that is that the Alcon name is a
tremendous asset, and we also want to make this seamless to our customers. We want the full
benefit of the capabilities of Novartis, but we don't want them to feel like they're dealing with
two different companies or two different divisions. So, in fact, the franchise that will be Ophtha
Pharma reporting into the Pharma Division will be still based in Fort Worth, sitting next to thesurgeon, surgical folks on Alcon, coordinating customer calls, coordinating messaging. So this is a
way that we can take the full force of Novartis, optimize for an even better experience for that
physician.
The second thing we're doing is we're going to strengthen the foundation. We need a world-
class surgical innovation model and we're going to build that from a people standpoint and from
a spending standpoint. We also need to reinstate some of the training and education for the
surgeons. For example, when we go out with Centurion, instead of minimal training or training
and education on the machine that just gets them up and running, we're going to surround them
with the kind of service that they were accustomed to at Alcon and return to delighting that
surgeon in a way that Alcon is the only company that they want to call.
And then the third area is that we're going to invest for growth. Now we don't want to wait two to
three years for the pipeline in Surgical or in Ophtha Pharma, so we're going to put some money,
incremental money behind those launches that are right in front of us, like UltraSert. This is the
new pre-loaded IOL that is launched in the U.S. and Europe, and also PanOptix, which is our multi-
focal lens. We're going to increase sales and marketing support up against these two. We're
going to increase direct-to-consumer advertising on the contact lens business; particularly DAILIES
TOTAL1, which we have seen is incredibly responsive to advertising. And we're also going to
accelerate some in-licensing, so that we can fill that pipeline gap.
So Alcon will become a $6 billion eye care division, focused on essentially medical devices,
Surgical and the Vision Care business, with three big businesses, IOLs, consumables behind the
equipment and contact lenses. Now, what can you expect? We put the plan together. We'll have
full operational transfer by mid-year, let's say. The way to think about this is that the investments
will kick in now. We're investing approximately $200 million incremental to what we would've
under the previous plan that was put together for Alcon. That will be split between Ophtha
Pharma and the Surgical Device business.
But what we expect to see in Alcon is probably execution of this will take the first half of 2016, so
we don't expect to see a turn before then. And, in fact, the first quarter is a very, very high base
versus a year ago, if you go back and look at what the shipments were or sales were in Alcon in
the first quarter. But after the first half, we believe that we will be able to turn the business. And,
in fact, we will exit the fourth quarter with low-to-mid single-digit growth in a sustainable way.
We'll build the 2017 plan in the autumn of this year as we start to see that turn, so that we can try
to continue to grow momentum and return the business to mid-single digit growth. And when you
think about the business, these are the milestones that we're going to be measuring ourselves
against. We need to start to see the business turn at mid-year and then we need to be exiting
the year at low-to-mid single-digit sales growth.
Now, we are also – there will be a change of leadership at Alcon. I have a lot of respect for Jeff.
Many of you know him and have spent a lot of time with him. He's been responsible for a lot of
successes at Novartis over his 10 years running the Sandoz business for five. He's had a very
difficult year and has made the decision that now that we're making these changes at Alcon, it
would be a good time for him to step down and think about what he wants to do next.
So, I've hired a new Division Head. His name is Michael Ball. He was previously CEO of Hospira
over the last four years. He has deep ophthalmic experience. So, he was President of Allergan
from 2006 to 2011, and he'll be the guy that drives this growth plan forward.
Now, the shift to the Pharmaceuticals Division of the Ophtha business is going to create a nice,
unified ophthalmic medicines business, including the combination of Lucentis with the pipeline ofthe Alcon Ophtha business, and this is going to be a big powerhouse, especially when the
Pharma Division applies its capabilities to this business with a pretty strong combined pipeline.
Again, a bit of a gap in the next two to three years, but a lot of promise in terms of big areas of
unmet medical need. So that's the plan for Alcon.
Now, I want to spend a minute talking about how we're going to take our strategy forward on
slide 32. You can see, last year, we announced that we were focusing the company on three
sectors that have global scale and innovation power; Pharmaceuticals, eye care and generics. And
that was all about focusing the company to make us a stronger and faster-moving company.
Now, in 2016, we're going to take the natural extension of that strategy and improve the
effectiveness of the company internally; so we're going to further focus our divisions. We're going
to create even greater innovation by integrating some of our drug development across divisions,
and we're going to centralize our manufacturing to lower our cost base.
So starting with further focusing our division on slide 34, we talked about the first two, but
additionally, we're going to take $1 billion of off-patent products from Pharma, and we're going to
give them to Sandoz. These are products that are not being promoted by the Pharmaceutical
Division today. There are many therapy areas where Sandoz has sales reps and a commercial
activity that fit those drugs that are not being promoted. So, putting them in to Sandoz will allow
us to create more value than just watching them decline as mature products.
We took a very diligent view in terms of where we felt like we could really add value, and we're
shifting 19 products that account for about $900 million to $1 billion of sales.
Now, on the innovation side, we are integrating some of the functions across divisions that will
help us standardize, simplify and reduce duplication. It's not just within the divisions; even inside
the divisions, sometimes we have multiple groups that are doing the same work, safety,
pharmacovigilance, regulatory.
And so, this way we're going to improve resource allocation. Instead of allocating development
budgets at the beginning of the year and then working within those budgets, we're going to
make this more of a real-time experience and manage on an innovation management board
basis, all of the development projects across the company regardless of whether it's biosimilars
or whether it's oncology or whether it's general medicine. And this is the way that we're going to
improve resource allocation on a real-time basis.
Now, importantly, clinical strategy and execution of the trials will remain in the divisions.
So, I've been able to name Vas Narasimhan, who is currently the Head of Global Development in
the Pharmaceuticals Division as the new Global Head of Drug Development and Chief Medical
Officer of the company. Vas will become a member of the executive committee and he'll work for
– he'll report to me on his group activities. He will maintain his development responsibilities within
the Pharmaceutical Division and report to David in that capacity.
Now, the third area is to leverage cross-divisional synergies to lower our total cost base. So, if you
look today, we've got separate manufacturing organizations across our divisions. And it leads
sometimes to suboptimal capacity planning. So, we do have a Tech Ops Council that is supposed
to overcome this. But moving to centralization of a manufacturing network will enable us to really
improve capacity planning. We're going to organize by technology, so solids, aseptics, biologics,
et cetera. And this is going to help us lower our total cost and improve our quality. But even more
importantly, it will allow us to more quickly adopt new technologies as they emerge and spread
them across the entire company.The second thing we're doing from a cost standpoint is we're expanding NBS to create an in-
country service platform for sales and marketing across all divisions; sales and marketing meaning
back-office like market research, market analytics. So, certainly not customer-facing that stays in
the divisions, but there is a lot of support. This was always in the eventual plan of NBS, but we are
accelerating it now because we think there's big opportunity.
And I've named Andre Wyss, who is currently Head of NBS and Country President of Switzerland,
to take on the newly-created role of President of Novartis Operations, so he'll continue in his
current role, but he will also pick up Global Technical Operations and Public & External Affairs. So,
these changes should result in savings over $1 billion by 2020 and the savings start now. But more
importantly, it's going to allow us to continue to invest in what is driven this innovation machine
because if there's pricing pressure, if there's cost pressure around the world, we are focused on
streamlining, simplifying, ensuring that we have the money both to invest in R&D, but also to
deliver on our commitment of making sure that we improve our profit margins over the next five
years. So NBS was a start, and this is going to add additional savings to that original view.
Now, I'd like to turn it over to Harry to talk about the financials in a little greater detail.
Harry Kirsch `
Thank you, Joe. Good morning and good afternoon, everyone. Unless otherwise noted, my
comments refer to our continuing operations and growth rates in constant currencies.
This time last year, we guided that sales will grow mid-single digit and core operating income will
grow ahead of sales at a high-single-digit rate. On slide 41, you can see that we delivered on that
guidance. On core operating income, we achieved even double-digit growth in constant currency,
slightly exceeding our guidance. Our a division level, Pharma and Sandoz achieved the guidance,
clearly Alcon missed.
Slide 42, as usual, summary of our performance, focusing on the full year first, we delivered sales
growth of 5% and core operating income growth of 10%, generating strong core leverage. Core
EPS grew 10%, in line with core operating income growth.
Operating income for the full year was down 2%, mainly due to the amortization of the new
oncology assets we acquired from GSK last year. Net income was down 18%, impacted by
exceptional prior year gains from the sale of our shares in Idenix and LTS Lohmann, as well as
exceptional charges in 2015, mostly related to our Venezuela subsidiaries.
Free cash flow was $9.3 billion, down versus a year ago in U.S. dollars, mainly due to the strong
currency impact on operations and high prior year Novartis venture fund divestments and the
commercial settlement. In the fourth quarter, sales were up 4%, core operating income was up
9% and core EPS was up 8%.
Now to slide 43; this is to emphasize our solid operational performance, which was driven by
volume growth of 11% in sales and 27% in core operating income, which more than offset a
negative impact of generics and pricing. This allowed us to deliver growth of 5% and 10% on
sales and core operating income respectively. The negative impact of currency of minus 10% and
minus 15% on sales and core op inc brought us down to minus 5% for both sales and core
operating income in reported U.S. dollar.
Slide 44 shows the currency impact on sales and core operating income growth by quarter for
2015. This is really much in line with what we expected in the Q3 call in October with 1% pointworse on core operating income, as the U.S. dollar strengthens further in November and
December.
Now, let me focus on 2016. If mid-January exchange rates prevail for the full year, we would
anticipate a currency impact of minus 3% on sales growth and minus 5% points on core operating
income growth for 2016. For quarter one, we would anticipate minus 5% and minus 7%
respectively. The higher currency impact in the first quarter is due to the U.S. dollar getting
stronger throughout 2015 and, hence, being relatively less strong in the first quarter of 2015 than
the rest of the year.
Slide 45, shows the full-year core margin, which improved by 130 basis points, driven by strong
performance in Pharma and Sandoz. Pharma grew 6% in top line and 14% in the bottom line,
resulting in a core margin expansion of 2.4% points, by investing in critical launches like Cosentyx
and Entresto. This was due to improvements in core gross margin, driven by the new oncology
assets as well as productivity initiatives.
Sandoz grew 7% and 17% on top and bottom line, resulting in a core margin expansion of 1.5%
points. This reflects the strong performance of our differentiated generics, including
biopharmaceuticals with the recently launched, Glatopa, the branded U.S. dermatology business
as well as a strong flu season earlier in 2015. Alcon's core margin was down 2.1% points in 2015,
impacted by lower sales and higher spending, primarily in R&D and M&S behind investments to
drive growth and an increase in provisions for bad debt in Asia.
Now, let's turn to quarter four core margin on slide 46. Overall core margin improved by 1.1%
points for the group, driven by a strong performance in Pharma, which grew core margin by 3.3%
points. Sandoz core margin improved by 0.6% points, despite the flat sales performance in the
fourth quarter. This performance was mainly due to a strong comparator in the fourth quarter last
year, which included more launches and still benefiting from Diovan mono authorized generic.
Increased price erosion compared to prior years and a weak start to the flu season in 2015 also
contributed to flat sales.
Alcon core margin decreased 2.6% points, primarily due to the declining sales and higher
spending in R&D. As you recall from this time last year, we said that we were expecting a
significant improvement between 2014 total group core margin and 2015 continuing operations
core margin. This would be both the reset of our margin level due to the portfolio transformation,
as well as continued productivity gains.
As you see from slide 47, our gains from the portfolio transformation have been 250 basis points
and our sales and productivity initiatives helped us achieve organic constant currency margin
growth, even offsetting the strong currency headwind getting to a core margin of 27.9% for
continuing operations in 2015.
Slide 48 shows the change in our net debt from $6.5 billion at the end of 2014 to $16.5 billion at
the end of 2015. This was mainly due to the acquisition of the new oncology assets and share
repurchases. To note, the share repurchases include buybacks from the two-year $5 billion share
buyback program, as well as our share buybacks to mitigate dilution from our employee
participation programs.
Slide 49 shows that we are proposing a dividend of CHF 2.70, up 4% in Swiss francs and
representing a 3% dividend yield. If approved at the AGM, this will be our 19th consecutive
dividend increase. The compound annual growth rate for a dividend is 9% in Swiss francs and 12%
in U.S. dollars.This reaffirms our commitment to a strong and growing dividend, and the payout ratio is 93% in
continuing operations net income and 37% in total group net income, assuming exchange rates
as of December 31, 2015. As net income is driven partly by accounting impacts, we also look at
the dividend payout as a percent of free cash flow, which is 73% of total group free cash flow.
I now want to turn our attention to 2016. Slide 50 shows some of the key pushes and pulls for the
year. Performance will be driven by growth products, including Cosentyx and Entresto, the new
oncology assets, NBS and cross-divisional synergies. Headwinds include obviously the generics,
as well as large investments and continued expected currency impact.
On slide 51, I want to present some insights for the outlook for the full-year 2016. With the
announcements we made today, I want to start by showing the restated divisional sales for 2015.
If we apply the new structure to 2015 actuals, sales for Pharma would have been $33.3 billion, for
Alcon $6 billion and for Sandoz $10 billion.
From this base, we expect Pharma sales to be in 2016 in line with 2015 or slightly below; Alcon to
deliver a low single-digit growth for the full year, and Sandoz to deliver low-to-mid single-digit
growth.
Overall for continuing operations, we expect total sales to be broadly in line with 2015 in constant
currencies. And if we exclude the generic impact of Gleevec, this would be right in the mid-single-
digit rate. We will provide full restated financials by division in the first half of April, so before we
announce quarter one earnings.
With that, our full-year guidance given on slide 52, we basically expect both sales and core
operating income to be broadly in line with prior year in constant currencies. In 2016, we're
expecting genericization of Gleevec to start in February in the U.S. and December in Europe,
contributing to the overall expected generic impact of $3.2 billion.
Excluding the Gleevec generic impact, sales growth is expected to be in the mid-single digit and
core op income is expected to be in the mid-teens. We expect 2016 to be a transition year with
very different dynamics during the different quarters and half one and half two within the broadly
in-line guidance for the full year.
On slide 53, I would like to highlight the key factors that impact core operating income in 2016.
We expect core operating income growth in half two, but a core operating income decline in half
one, more pronounced in Q1 than Q2. The expected decline in the first quarter, which could be a
double-digit core operating income decline in constant currency, is mainly driven by the following
factors.
In Pharma, we expect U.S. Gleevec genericization, as well as significantly higher launch investment
for Cosentyx and Entresto. In Alcon, we have higher prior-year base in quarter one, as well as
investments for the growth plans starting, but expect positive sales impact mainly in the second
half of the year. For Sandoz, we have a high prior-year base in the first quarter with a strong flu
season, but after a difficult Q1, we expect improvement in back half of the year.
I would like to add some perspective on other key elements of our expected bottom line
performance in 2016 beyond core operating income on slide 54. Our key assumption for the full
year core tax rate is expected to be in the mid-teens, so consistent with last and prior years.
Currency, as already mentioned, minus 3% on sales and 5% impact on core operating income, on
the full year, if currency stay where they are right now.Core income from associated companies is expected to be higher, as we expect the OTC joint
venture to realize further synergies in 2016. And also, in 2015, there is an included negative true-
up on Roche income for 2014 results.
For core net financial income, we expect a total expense of about $0.8 billion to $0.9 billion. That
is slightly worse compared to the $0.7 billion expense in 2015. The increase is mainly driven by
expected higher hedging costs due to increased exposure and volatility in emerging market
currencies.
Finally, with respect to today's announcements, we expect to deliver over $1 billion in cost savings
per year as of 2020. Associated with these changes, we expect one-time cost of approximately
$1.4 billion in total, spread over five years. The distribution of these savings and costs is shown in
an illustrative format on slide 55.
After $1.4 billion one-time cost, we expect about $0.8 billion to be cash flow relevant. The
remaining $0.6 billion is mainly expected to be accelerated depreciation of assets and technical
operations.
As you can see, we forecast already a small core op income contribution in 2016, increasing over
four years to $1 billion plus in 2020. The free cash flow impact from this program would be less
than $100 million negative in 2016, and already free cash flow positive in 2017. The operating
income impact is expected to be positive as of 2018.
Clearly, these savings are substantial over time, and I expect them to create significant value and
support our core margin development as we go forward. And with this, I'd hand over to David.
David R. Epstein `
Thank you, Harry. The Pharma Division had a strong year both in terms of its financial metrics and
innovation metrics. For the full year, net sales grew 6% in constant currency and 14% in core
operating income, allowing a core operating income margin gain. Looking more specifically at Q4,
you see 9% sales growth and 23% on the bottom line resulting in, as Harry had shared with you, a
330 basis point improvement in core operating margin, which speaks to the strong underlying
power of the business in periods of time when there is not much generic exposure.
Turning now to the next page, you see that our growth product net sales have grown 33%, now
representing 44% of the total business for full-year 2015. In Q4, that number was actually 47%.
The reason we track this metric is a good guide for the sustainability of our sales over time.
On the following slide, we see our attractive growth platform with exclusivity until 2019 and
beyond. These products are either blockbuster status today or on their way to becoming
blockbusters in time. Across the board, very good numbers for the year with the exception of
Lucentis where we continue to have price pressure, as well as competition from both branded
competition as well as off-label use of Avastin.
There are multiple examples of healthy sales development throughout this portfolio, but what I
want to do is just focus now for a few of them starting with our oncology business, which is on the
following page.
We achieved very strong growth momentum in 2015 and you could see that's the case whether
we can get our underlying oncology business pre the acquisition of the GSK assets where we
grew that business 8%, or now the total oncology business, which benefited from the acquisition
of those GSK products growing 24% for the year, and also roughly the same figure for Q4.The new assets contributed $1.8 billion. They are delivering largely in line with what we expected
when we made the deal case. The interesting part for me is that we're starting to now see
Novartis' commercial power come through. In the back half of the year those assets did better
than in the front half of the year. In addition, Alessandro Riva and his team delivered on all the
submissions and approvals that we had anticipated for those acquired products.
On the following page, I just want to call out one of our Novartis oncology brands, and that's
Jakavi, which is approved for myelofibrosis now for a few years and more recently for
polycythemia vera. You could see this product continues to grow strongly, up 71% for the year,
59% for Q4. Putting that into real dollars, that means $410 million for the full year and $119 million
for the quarter. So you can see, we are well on our way to fulfill our projection for this to become
a blockbuster brand. In particular, the polycythemia sales have really only so far come from
Germany and Japan, so there is more upside from here.
Now changing to Gilenya, we see strong momentum in multiple sclerosis with Gilenya, both in
terms of net sales growth, overall with 26% in the U.S. and 17% ex-U.S., but also in terms of growth
in value share where we gained market share of 1.1 points in the U.S. and 2.1 points ex-U.S. where
we've actually now at a 20% share. This granted just over $2.7 billion for the year and $742 million
in Q4, which means we're now almost at a $3 billion run rate for this very successful launch.
Based upon our success in the MS category, we also made the decision to license in the
remaining rights of ofatumumab from GSK, which will allow us to start a relapse remitting MS
pivotal program in the middle of this year with a planned filing in 2019 with what appears to be a
very effective asset.
Now, I want to switch gears and spend a little bit of time on Entresto and Cosentyx, our two very
important brands, which we believe, over time, could, in fact, become some of the biggest
assets in the company. It's very clear that Entresto started slowly in the U.S. And in fact, we
cautioned that uptick would be slow, but even with that caution, I would say that the brand
performed more modestly than even we had anticipated.
If you take a look at the chart in the left-hand side, you see that while the uptake of Entresto is
outpacing Corlanor, which is Amgen's heart failure drug, as well as the two PCSK9s that have
been recently launched. It is well below the uptake for the Factor Xas. This is in large part driven,
we believe, by the lack of formulary access that we experienced during the six month of the
launch of this product. As you know, 65% of these patients are on Medicare. And these plans
have up to six months to make a formulary decision. And in most cases, they took the six months
to make that decision.
Our teams worked very hard during November and December. And as a result, we've signed a
large number of contracts with formularies that are intended to open access, and in fact, if you
turn to the next slide, I'll walk you through where we now stand, which is in a much better place
than we were as we exited 2015.
Starting with that Medicare patient population, you see that when you go back to October, we
had virtually no access for the brand. What that means is, if a doctor wrote a prescription, the
patient was highly unlikely to have their insurance company pay for it. Looking now at January
2016 or by the end of January 2016, you see a very different story. You see that roughly in
Medicare, roughly 70% of the patients will have access, often requiring prior authorization, but
access. And of that 70%, 44% of the total or about two-thirds have reimbursement on the lowest
tier.And the reason this is important is because in the Medicare segment, patients in a third tier or
higher often have copays around $100 or higher. Second tier patients or low copay patients
typically have copays around $50. There's also a large number of patients here that are low-
income subsidized patients, which will often pay out of pocket more around $5 to $10, making
access quite affordable for them.
The commercial side of the business is a bit better. And you see that as of January, we had 78%
of the plans we're reimbursing for the product or will be reimbursing for the product by the end
of the month. It's even better with roughly 73% of those patients being on the lowest tier. On the
commercial side of the business, low tier typically equates to about a $30 copay and a high copay
plan is typically $60 in a higher tier.
Thus, we would expect sales to start to improve now. Our field force was retrained during the
month of January. They were provided with new promotional materials and great clarity on which
of their physicians have patients that have access and which do not.
Having said that, one way to look at this is really – this is really the beginning of the launch, which
means the front half of the year, sales in the U.S. will remain modest, and then we would expect a
significant pick-up in the second half of the year.
Turning to the next page, I want to contrast you something that's very different and that's our
experience with Entresto in Europe. Now to caution you here, we have very little data in Europe,
but what we're seeing is a very different dynamic. We launched in November in Switzerland for
the product, and we see an uptake that's more than five times as strong as the U.S. market. Of
course that's adjusted on a per capita basis; Switzerland is a much smaller country. But we're
seeing is that doctors understand the story. They see the value of the product. And they're
writing the prescriptions, and the prescriptions are being filled.
Why is that? The Swiss system is much more straightforward. Once the price is negotiated, the
market opens to these patients. We have even less experience in Germany where we launched
just over a week ago. Having said that, with just one week of data, so I want to be very cautious,
we're seeing a phenomena that is more like Switzerland than the U.S. And in fact, in the first
week, we had over 1,000 patients already on therapy in Germany versus roughly 11,000 patients
we have on therapy in the U.S. after more than six months. So I'm actually quite a bit more
optimistic about the sales dynamic that will evolve during the course of the year.
Putting that altogether, I think we should still, as we're out-looking for the year, expect relatively
modest sales for the brand in Q1 and Q2. Having said that, by the middle of the year we will have
a good read on both the U.S. and the European sales dynamic and be able to better fine-tune
forecasts. At this point in time, we believe the peak sales guidance that we gave for the product
remains intact due to the value of the medicine and the initial signs around uptake we're seeing
outside the U.S. market.
What does that really mean? When we took a quick look at consensus, I think that expectations
for 2016 are probably somewhat too high, especially in the first half of the year. Having said that,
Cosentyx is a very different story, if you turn to the next page. We've seen very dynamic uptake
of this product. This product, as you know, is initially approved for moderate to severe psoriasis.
The patient experience has been very good. In addition, in the U.S. market, the vast majority of
patients are commercial-pay patients, so they don't face the hurdles that Medicare patients face
with Entresto.
As you can see, in terms of patients that are currently paying for their medicine, we have a 6%free drug as they work through their insurance barriers.
Just like with Entresto, however, we see a very interesting phenomena in the European market.
With Germany, where we launched after the U.S. in, I believe, it was late May last year, you see
that we're already at 12% market share in this biologic segment. Even more importantly, roughly
40% of these patients are biologic naïve patients, which means they're getting therapy much
earlier in the course of the disease, the doctors are uninhibited to go to the best therapy unlike
the U.S. where patients often have to fail two, three, or even four previous biologic therapies
before they get access to a medicine like Cosentyx.
We also received an expanded label in Japan. And our development team did a really excellent
job gaining approval both in Europe at end of last year and in the U.S. at the beginning of this year
for the new indications of ankylosing spondylitis and psoriatic arthritis.
You get a sense on the next page what the market opportunity can be. We just have the U.S.
market on this chart. You see that those markets have been growing rapidly, particularly over the
last two years. And in fact, if you look at IMS data, which is far from perfect, for the full year of
2015, it looks like the three indications combined are running about $13 billion, growing in excess
of 20% and, remember, still less than 20% of the patients who'd be eligible for biologic are
actually taking such a product. So, the opportunity for market expansion as more and more
players come into the field is really quite good.
Just as I had cautioned on Entresto consensus, I would provide the opposite caution here, which
is Cosentyx seems to be on a track to do better than what most people are expecting for 2016,
and we're very bullish on this product. In order to fully drive uptake in the U.S., it's clear that one
of the keys to success in psoriasis is direct-to-consumer advertising. Those TV commercials
started just last week in the U.S. and we're optimistic that, that commercial will play well with this
patient base and further grow the brand.
Now what I'd like to do is just spend a little bit of time on our pipeline, starting with PKC412, which
is now on track to become the first targeted therapy to show an overall survival benefit in FLT3-
mutated AML patients. We will be filing the product both in the U.S. and Europe in the first half of
2016. As you can see, overall survival was improved by a remarkable 23%. And we have a tail of
product that seem to do extraordinarily well for a very long period of time. So this will be a nice
boost to our oncology business.
On the next page, I show four other late-stage pipeline assets impacting different disease areas.
Our internal team had a bit of a debate which products to sell and everybody – which products to
show, excuse me, and because they all had their own favorites, but I picked four here because
they all tell slightly different stories. But there are indeed other very interesting assets in our
pipeline.
Starting with QAW039, this is a once daily CRTh2 that's being developed for patients with severe
asthma, particularly those who have elevated eosinophils. Vas Narasimhan and his team have
started two pivotal trials for this product we expect to file in 2019. In terms of positioning, this is
the kind of product that would be used prior to the expense of a biologics, and we believe
there's a big opportunity for such a product.
The second product that I want to talk about, we haven't spent much time on it before, is AMG
334. This is a product that's being developed for both episodic as well as chronic migraine. It's a
new class of medicines. It's an anti-CGRP monoclonal antibody. There are several competitors.
We license this product as part of our Alzheimer's deal from Amgen. We have rights for theproduct ex-U.S. and ex-Japan. The Phase II data in this class has been very compelling, and we're
very excited as these Phase III programs are enrolling well.
The next product is the one that you've heard about before, serelaxin or RLX030, our product
for acute heart failure. That program is enrolling well. It's planned to now be 6,800 patients, and
we hope to finish up that recruitment during the course of 2016. You'll note that the filing is now
planned for 2017 rather than 2016, that's because we went to the FDA and we went to EMA and
we asked to add a second primary endpoint called worsening heart failure.
The trial is now designed, there's a chance for this product to win if it has a positive outcome in
mortality or if it has a positive outcome in worsening heart failure, a measure that's becoming
increasingly important to cardiologists and hospital systems in general. We believe the small
delay is worth the increased sense of certainty or the increased shot on goal.
The last product I want to talk about and a category that's close to my heart. It's sort of timely in a
way given that this is a year that Gleevec goes off patent, this is ABL001. This is a novel and
potent allosteric BCR-ABL inhibitor, works by different mechanism in Gleevec, Tasigna or Sprycel.
We showed some very early Phase I data at ASH this year. There'll be more data at ASH in 2016.
We believe that what we've seen so far is a very, very interesting and very positive efficacy profile
for the product.
The chart here says that there will be a filing in 2020 or later, that is assuming a normal timeline
with the standard Phase I, Phase II and Phase III. Should this product work well in patients that have
failed other therapies, which one would hope would be the case, there would be an opportunity
to file earlier even potentially on randomized Phase II data. So, also a product to watch and to
stay tuned to.
If we can turn to page 70, I'll wrap up there. These are expected selected highlights in terms of
news flow for the year. Two green checks already for Cosentyx where we are ahead of our
internal plan. We expect regulatory filings for Ilaris in hereditary periodic fevers, actually a bigger
condition than most people expect, particularly in Southern Europe and in the Middle East.
Afinitor, FDA action date is expected for advanced non-functional NET tumors. This will be
important for the product to keep it growing to offset the negative market pressures we have in
breast cancer and renal cancer from new competition. I already spoke about PKC. And then
previously, we had guided that we expect to file and then get an answer, in this case, from PMDA
for metastatic melanoma for the combination of Taf and Mek.
Second half of the year, novel products, BYM, regulatory filings for sporadic inclusion body
myositis, new indications in lung cancer for Taf-Mek. Votrient, we will have the data and the
regulatory filings for adjuvant renal cell. And then last but not least, you see from a slightly
different shade LEE011. This is the CDK4/6 for hormone-positive metastatic breast cancer. The
reason it's shaded is we have an interim analysis during Q2. We believe there's a pretty good
chance, no guarantee, but a pretty good chance the interim will be positive. In which case, we
would definitely file in 2016. However, we have to go to the full analysis, this is an event-driven
trial, and it's possible that the filing would be early 2017 or late 2016, so we just want to use the
different shade to caution you. We're not exactly sure when that filing would occur.
And with that, I'd like to hand it back to Joe.
Joseph Jimenez `Thanks, David. So, just to close, I want to lay out the priorities for the year. The first, obviously, is
to deliver our financial targets while we absorb Gleevec and also invest in the launches. We're
going to improve the pipeline across all divisions. At the same time, we need to turn the Alcon
business in the back half of 2016. We've got a lot to do on cross-divisional synergies, now with the
centralization of manufacturing on top of our plans for Novartis Business Services, and finally,
strengthening the company through high quality and talent throughout the organization. So I think
we have a plan for Alcon in which we can execute immediately and this is going to make us a
stronger and a better company as we move to make some of the changes in both drug
development, as well as our manufacturing footprint around the world.
So, with that, I'd like to open it up to questions.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. The first question comes from the line of Richard Vosser from JPMorgan. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Richard B. Vosser, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. A few on Entresto and a couple on Alcon please. So on
Entresto, you mentioned that there's some prior authorization still there in the Medicare
coverage in the U.S. So, just what proportion of life still has prior authorization please and what
removes the prior authorization? What hurdles do you need to go through to get rid of it and
over what timeframe do you think that could happen?
Second question, just on the treatment guidelines. I think we've seen the first batch from Canada
and they've positioned Entresto as a second-line agent. So if you could just comment on how you
feel that leaves you relative to your marketing plan and what you think it might mean if you got
the same thing in the U.S.?
And thirdly, just you mentioned changes to the sales force sort of retraining them in January. Just
if you could give us an idea of what's changed with that training?
And then maybe just a quick one on Alcon, which is, the business plan that you outlined in terms
of investing in the current products is similar to we've seen for the last six months. So, just what
happens if the business doesn't turn around by midyear? You've given us a very clear target that
it should turn around, so just your thoughts on maybe a plan-B there. Thanks very much.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
David?
A - David R. Epstein `
So starting with Entresto. So most of the plans require prior authorization. That is not strange for
this period of time, which generally takes prior authorizations off if doctor and patient demand. So
as people start to complain about it, more and more come on then eventually the plan will
engage in a conversation with us. It might be some – a little bit incremental rebate but then those
will come up. I can't give you an exact time, but it won't be in 2016. It would be later out than that.
In terms of Canada, I thought the guidelines actually were quite positive. In terms of the
guidelines for Europe we're told, and remember we don't have complete transparency, we'retold that there's likely to be guidelines issued around the time of the European Society of
Cardiology Meeting in Europe, which I believe, if I recall correctly, is May.
And for the U.S., I'm told it's more likely to be in the back end of the year. We do not yet know
how the products will be positioned, whether it'll be a choice, whether it'd be Entresto first or
there'll be some other caveat. Remember, there is only one pivotal trial, so doctors will tend to
be more cautious when they write those initial guidelines.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
And changes to the sales force...
A - David R. Epstein `
Oh, I'm sorry. So, the sales force – the biggest thing for the sales force is first of all, as you can
imagine, they were struggling with the lack of access. And they needed additional training to
know where the access was open and how to deal with it in practices through the prior
authorization practice. Just as importantly, it wasn't really until now that we have full detailed
materials for them because it was a fairly long process with FDA to get those materials, so they
were trained on the entire selling story. And that's why I tried to indicate, it's almost as if the
launch is starting now in the U.S. market. And as you modeled it, it's probably a good way to think
about the uptake of the product.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
And Richard, in terms of the Alcon turnaround, obviously, we're executing now. We don't expect
to see the turn until mid-year. We then expect to see improvement, and as I said, exit the year
with low-to-mid-single-digit growth. And your question was what happens if that doesn't happen?
And we are right now totally focused on executing that because the plan that I've seen is
credible. If we execute it, we should turn it and then if we don't – if we're not able to turn it, then
we obviously have to step back and ask why.
What is it about either this business or about med tech or about any other element of Novartis
and our ability to turn the business like that? And that's a question that I hope we don't have to
ask, because I do believe in the plan. And I think with Mike's full attention on it also and a team
that's focus on executing it that we'll be able to turn it. But we've got a year to look and we're
going to execute. And then in the fall and as we build the plan for 2017, we're going to evaluate
where we are.
Q - `Richard B. Vosser, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
Thank you very much.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of Andrew Baum from Citi. Please go ahead.
Q - `Andrew S. Baum, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Thank you, questions for Harry, David and Joe. So Harry, two factual ones. So firstly, of the
announced $1 billion-plus in cost reductions by 2020, how much of that gets reinvested? And then
second, the anticipated timing for utilizing the $10 billion authorized buyback?For David, given you have 200,000 patients sitting in integrated delivery network, namely in the
VA eligible for Entresto, why not accelerate the adoption by increased rebating, given the
uncertain U.S. pass-by for the product? I understand there's a dynamic between volume and
value, but what would it take to get particularly the VA on board?
And then finally for Joe, in your explanation of Alcon's challenges and looking at page 25, the one
area that you didn't focus on, or maybe I missed it, was the line talking about supply chain.
Obviously innovation or lack of is a chronic issue in Alcon, but my understanding is some of the
overfilled channels or debts that were written off in Asia on the Surgical business reflected
mismanagement or issues in relation to the supply chain. Have those been corrected in terms of
both the bonus structure for your employees within Asia or within the Surgical business, and do
you feel now you have absolute oversight of the supply chain for the device business?
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Okay, David or no, Harry, sorry. Go with the costs.
A - Harry Kirsch `
Yeah. First, thank you, Andrew. So, the $1 billion, as Joe laid out is there in order to partly reinvest
into our pipeline and organic growth, but also partly, of course, to support our margin expansion.
Now, to forecast that for the next four or five years is probably not the right thing to do at this
moment, also given that things always change. But I clearly see this as significantly supporting our
margin progression beyond 2016.
In terms of the share buyback timeline, just to clarify, in our AGM proposal, there will be the
request of the board to the AGM to authorize our seventh share buyback program, but it is
basically an authorization request for framework of a share buyback. It doesn't have any time limit.
And you may recall that our sixth share buyback program was going from 2008 to 2015, and we
just finished it with our – the last element of the $5 billion buyback over the two years. So, we are
not announcing a specific additional share buyback at this moment.
On the other hand, also, we are always committed as we also did this year, in addition to
announced share buybacks, to mitigate any potential dilution from employee participation
programs.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
David.
A - David R. Epstein `
So, Andrew, I agree with you. The VA patients would very much benefit from this drug, reduce
mortality, reduce hospitalization costs. So this is a kind of drug that makes a lot of sense for VA
population. It took a couple of months of discussion. The VA has now, at the end of last year,
partially opened the doors to us for roughly 30% to 40% of their population, and it's discounted
with the standard VA rate. There's no incremental discount. We are continuing to talk to them. We
are willing to provide them some additional discounts to open the rest of the population. But I
can't yet put a time on that. It really will be driven by the VA.
A - Joseph Jimenez `And Andrew, on the supply chain for Alcon, one of the issues that we ran into in the last 12
months is when we launched Centurion, a lot of other things changed in the supply chain system
in terms of equipment that those surgeons used to use that piece of equipment. And what that
means is that it throws a lot of the consumables into, let's say, a level of complexity that results
sometimes in customer service issues with that customer. So, because it is a high-touch business,
we did have some service issues. We're largely through those now.
In terms of the bad debt in Asia-Pacific that you mentioned regarding some equipment sales, that
is now behind us. And we have – there are – there's training, there's education, there's change in
incentives that put that behind us also. So, really it is ensuring that we have best-in-class customer
service. And for the most part, we're through the woods after the fourth quarter.
Q - `Andrew S. Baum, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of Matthew Weston from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.
Q - `Matthew J. Weston, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Thank you. Three questions, if I can. The first simply on Entresto in the U.S. for the enhanced
access that we've seen this year; David, is that simply a function of the six months rolling off in
Medicare Part D in the rules, or is it that you've been forced to rebate more aggressively to open
access on the product?
Then with respect to Gleevec in your assumptions; I'm sorry to dig into this one, but you've given
us divisional guidance, so it's pretty important to understand where you're putting things. We
know some will enter on the February 1. We know they effectively have a license on your patent.
Dr. Reddy's recently announced that you had settled with them. Can you confirm that? And can
you also confirm if you settled with anybody else on the 2019 beta crystal patent?
And then finally, during the 180-day period, I presume that you will still make sales. It'll be a two-
player market. Are they in Pharma within your guidance, or are they in Sandoz within your
guidance?
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Entresto rebate?
A - David R. Epstein `
Yeah. So, the answer is, yes, it's both. So, one is, it's a negotiation. And many of the plans, not all
of them, will use time on the fact that they have the six-month decision window to basically ask
for very large rebates at the beginning. And then over time, you reach a place where both sides
are happy.
I actually feel that we did a good job. I won't give you exact numbers. But actually, the rebate
request came down over time rather than going up over time. We also have two plans and I won't
name the specific plans that have agreed to do an outcomes plan with us. And the way that
works pretty straightforward. We agreed to a base rebate for the product, actually fairly modest.
And then depending upon whether or not we achieve specific goals around reduced
hospitalization and savings to the plan, the rebate would either go up or go down. And we thinkthat's going to become something that becomes more and more popular in the U.S. and around
the world.
For Gleevec, we've assumed, as you pointed out, a February entry of the first generic. We believe
they will be exclusive for that first six months, and our working assumption is there'll be multiple
entrants after that six months.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
And then from the guidance standpoint, you should assume that at this point, we are not planning
on an authorized generic in Sandoz. So, it remains – the Gleevec volume and sales remain in the
Pharma group. And obviously, we don't want to go beyond that just in terms of how we look and
model and think about maximizing sales on Gleevec for the group. But that's the current
assumption.
Q - `Matthew J. Weston, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Joe, thank you. Can I cheat with one other actually because Harry's answered the prior question
about share buybacks. In a year where you're challenged but you have substantial cash flow and a
very strong balance sheet, it would make sense to use share buybacks to support earnings
growth for investors. And I guess, my question is, is it semantics that you can't talk about a share
buyback because you have no authorization until it comes through the AGM because you've
spent up? Or is it that you don't see buybacks as an important element of supporting earnings
growth this year?
A - Harry Kirsch `
Andrew [sic] Matt of course, we see share buybacks as a continued important element of our
capital allocation. On the other hand, we're still sitting on $16 billion of net debt due to the
acquisition of the GSK oncology assets, and we are working our way through that. Now, I would
expect continuously that as part of our capital allocation, we may announce one, but at this
moment there's nothing specific and you know our capital allocation priorities remain organic
growth then growing dividend, and thirdly, bolt-on M&A between $1 billion and $5 billion, and
fourth, last but not least, share buybacks in addition to mitigating employee participation
programs.
Q - `Matthew J. Weston, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Harry, thanks.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of Alexandra Hauber from UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Alexandra M. Hauber-Schuele, UBS AG (Broker) `
Good afternoon, thanks for taking my questions. Starting on Alcon, again. What gives you
confidence that you really will see acceleration in IOLs in the second half, apart from the fact that
you have a lower base? As far as I can assess the situation, it still looks like you're losing
significant share, specifically in Europe and Asia because your competitors have so much more
innovative portfolio, and I'm not sure whether the trifocals and the other launch will really be good
enough to recapture share.Also, can you give us some directional idea of about what Alcon margins are doing for the new
parameter, of course? So is 2016 going to be flat over 2015, and then stay flat until the premium
IOLs comes through, the new generation in 2017? And then thirdly, was Mike Ball involved in this
whole strategic plan? And then just a final back up follow-up question on Entresto and the prior
authorization topic. David, you said last year, I think on the third-quarter call that cardiologists are
not used to fight for access and in December, when we talked, you also said there's no need to
establish any infrastructure to help them going through this, because it's temporary. So is this now
not coming off this year? I don't understand the sales dynamics you're guiding to, as in not much
uptick in the first half, but potentially better uptick in the second half, if the prior authorization isn't
coming off?
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Okay. Let's start with Alcon and why we believe that we will see accelerating IOL growth in the
back half. It's not just IOLs, Alexandra, that will turn the business. It's really a full plan that includes
additional spending on the contact lens business, as well as the IOL business and continued
pressure on equipment and Centurion.
Now, you asked specifically about IOLs and we're not losing share, remember, particularly in the
U.S. We are seeing a mix effect as multifocal reduces and monofocal increases. So that is having
an impact. In Europe there was some share decline due to the introduction of more price
competition on IOLs, but when you look at the two new products that we have, the UltraSert,
which is in both geographies and PanOptix. PanOptix isn't a panacea in Europe, but it already is
helping us to regain some lost share because of the optics of that IOL. It is perceived as a quite
interesting IOL a la the Toric Multifocal, which also is – become a very important element of
multifocal.
So, there is multifocal or there is premium IOLs and then there is premium IOLs. And we missed it
I think on the first round, but with PanOptix and with Toric, we're able to command premium
prices. We're going to increase spending. So this is marketing and promotional spending up
against those. And it remains to be seen, I believe in the plan and we'll see if it turns. If it doesn't
turn we have to ask a harder question.
In terms of Alcon margin, we ended the year at about a 31% margin. This is old Alcon, assume
more spending a couple of margin points back on this plan, split across. When we show the pro
formas in mid-April, you'll be able to see how that breaks out between Pharma and Surgical, but
there is still quite a bit of decision that has to be made around where we're going to move costs,
if they're going to move them to the Ophtha Pharma business or they're going to have to stay in
the Surgical business.
So, we still have some work to do before we can talk about both the pro forma margins and then
also the margin evolution. Assume, though, that we've now got a base in 2016 from a margin
standpoint upon which we will be able to – if we're successful with our innovation, where we can
margin up, where we could start to grow back to that level that was sustainable at Alcon.
And the issue is we have to remember that we've got to ensure that we are still servicing this
business with what it takes on these customers, because it is a competitive environment. We
want them only to call Alcon, and that's going to mean training, education, making sure that we
have the technical folks that we need to service those machines and delight those customers in a
way that competitors will not be able to.
In terms of Mike, he has reviewed the strategic plan. He's in general agreement with them, butwhere he sees opportunity. We've hired him to really take the business and turn it. And so, he's
going to have a free hand in that. David, on the Entresto?
A - David R. Epstein `
Yeah, Entresto. So Alexandra, there are differences in restrictive processes. So when a product is
not on formulary at all, you saw that even then we had a few prescriptions, because if a doctor
wants to jump through all the hoops and fight really hard, they can generally get a product on, but
it's extraordinarily burdensome and they'll do it for very few patients.
Once a formulary is opened up, whether it'd be the second tier or third tier, even if with the prior
authorization, it becomes much more routine. There's much less information needed. It's a
quicker decision process to the plan, and it's repeated over and over, over time, so it becomes a
standard practice for the office staff.
We have actually built – I'm sorry if I didn't say it clearly before, but we actually have built those
support services for doctors, just as we have for Gilenya and other products and that will be
available to them. In addition, because you're right, cardiologists have less experience of prior
authorization. In addition, now that there's multiple other cardiology products launching, other
companies are also educating cardiologists and their office staffs on how to do it. So, over time,
this will become much more routine.
Q - `Alexandra M. Hauber-Schuele, UBS AG (Broker) `
Thank you.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Partners LLC from Leerink. Please go ahead.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Partners LLC `
Thanks very much for the question, so just a couple here. First off, for Joe, and this may sound a
little bit unfair but over the last few years we've kind of moved from crisis to crisis in terms of the
consumer business falling below expectations, now Alcon falling below expectations. Can you
help us better understand where and when investors should have conviction that the business is
really going to be on the right path, on a sustainable basis. Is it kind of kicking off in the second
half of this year, or is it more of a 2017-type event?
The second question, as we think about Entresto, I guess given a 16% total mortality benefit and
a striking label, what I struggle with is what is the prior authorization dynamic that's being put in
place, and what is the justification on the basis of the plans to allow that to be the standard?
Thanks a lot.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Okay, Seamus, starting with when to have conviction. When you look at the business, the whole
portfolio transformation was around focusing our business on leading businesses in their sectors
that have global scale and innovation power and losing some of the smaller businesses that were
good businesses in their own right, but they were distractions or they had issues. So, if you look
at the company today, it's a simpler and a stronger company than it was just two years ago.
2016 is going to be a transition year for us as we're going through what is the biggest patent
expiration that we've seen since Diovan, with Gleevec. This is a $4.5 billion drug. So, we're goingthrough it at a time when we're launching two drugs that we believe will become mega
blockbusters for the company on Entresto and Cosentyx.
So I think as we move through 2016 and exit 2016, I believe we will put Alcon on a more, let's say,
stable base where we've got predictability, where we've got maybe not scintillating double-digit
growth, but growth that we can rely on and count on, sustainable growth and the Pharma
business also has that kind of predictability and sustainability. I think by definition, the generics
business is going to continue to be volatile. We saw that in the fourth quarter.
We had a base that was quite high, but we also did not see some of the pricing issues coming in
Sandoz in the fourth quarter, which did come, and we expect those now to continue through
2016, and that's why we're saying, Sandoz will still grow. We'll have low-to-mid single-digit sales
growth, not 7% like last year, but still a good business. So you're going to have volatility in that
kind of a business because that almost by definition the kind of business that it is. So I would say
that as we're exiting like mid-year of 2016, and as we exit 2016, I believe that we will be on a
more stable base, particularly as we turn Alcon.
David, on Entresto?
A - David R. Epstein `
Yes. If I can also to be blunt. I mean, prior authorization processes are meant to slow product
adoption and keep cost down for payers, that's what their basis is. Sometimes they're simple and
they want to make sure the product is being prescribed and labeled, for example, in New York
heart failure Class II-IV, the appropriate ejection fraction, blood pressures in certain range, et
cetera. And other times they're arbitrary and they will add things like full-dose beta blockers or
something else simply to add the additional hurdle and like I said earlier, once enough patients
are on and doctors see this – begin to see this as standard of care and complain a lot to the
insurers the prior authorizations will go away, but that won't happen this year.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Kerry Holford, Exane Ltd. from Exane BNP Paribas. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Kerry Holford, Exane Ltd. `
Thank you very much. Some product-related questions please. So Afinitor, we saw sales decline in
the U.S. in Q4, and clearly you're seeing pressure from new competitors in renal and breast
cancer. But I wonder if there's something you can address now ahead of patent expiry in 2019,
any new clinical data, or should we essentially assume that brand is now in terminal decline, in that
market?
Also a slowdown in growth for Tasigna in Q4 in the U.S., is this really reflecting anticipation of
Gleevec generic arriving? What are your expectations for that growth rate going forward? And
then a point of clarification, sorry for me, on Entresto. When you talk about lower copay, those
patients who are accessing at lower copays, are you referring specifically to tier two there? And
with regard to the marketing strategy here, are you focusing initially on those specialist
prescribers, or are you now affecting a broader marketing effort from the outset? Thank you.A - David R. Epstein `
Okay. Let's take them one at a time starting with Afinitor. So Afinitor has additional competition in
the area of breast cancer which is about, if I recall correctly, roughly half of the business. We saw
the launch of palbo from Pfizer in CDK 4/6. And you'll recall we also have one in late-stage
development. These are good drugs. And what they are doing is they're essentially pushing
Afinitor to a later line of therapy.
Likewise, in renal cancer, we have the launch of the immuno-oncology agent, which will often be
tried earlier on, as well as several other targeted and anti-VEGF agent into renal cell cancer, which
pushes Afinitor a bit further, a bit later. Your question about sales projection is a little bit difficult
because some of these patients will eventually fail their new first or second line therapy and then
roll on to Afinitor later. And in addition, we will have growth coming in tuberous sclerosis complex
as well as neuroendocrine tumors where we're extending our label.
Having said all that, I think growth, if there is growth, it'd be pretty modest for the product, so I
think that's the – what we're seeing is a good indication the product is getting closer and closer to
its peak sales.
In terms of Tasigna in the U.S., it was, if I recall correctly, it was roughly in the quarter 9% growth
versus the prior year. It was impacted by a stock in trade drawdown during the period and a very
strong prior-year quarter in Q4 2014. So we think actually the growth of the product is intact and it
continues to perform well overall.
Having said that, we have cautioned before that when Gleevec does go generic, it is likely that
some doctors and some plans will start their new patient on generic imatinib and then wait to use
Tasigna for the patient who have not achieved a certain cytogenetic response.
The next question was about Entresto copays and also about Entresto marketing. Let me take
the marketing audience part first and I need you to re-ask me the copay question, because I'm
not sure I quite got it. So we're focusing on cardiologists primarily in about 10% of the internists
that are right the majority of the heart failure prescriptions.
Of the cardiologists – in total, that represents about 35% of the heart failure market potential and
we went light at the beginning in the U.S. consciously knowing that access was going to be low.
We didn't want to waste resources. We will expand that field force a bit during second quarter of
this year. That will provide a more aggressive coverage, covering about 51% of the prescriptions,
as well as more frequency against the key targets.
If I had to contrast that for you in Germany, we have a very different setup and where primary
care is much more important, we've gone out with full coverage of cardiologists and we're also
covering the majority of primary care physicians from the get-go in Germany. So it's a very
different marketing and sales mix in different countries depending upon their local situation.
Can you ask me the copay question one more time?
Q - `Kerry Holford, Exane Ltd. `
Sure it was referring to slide 64, where you talk about patients on formulary that have lower
copay versus a higher copay. Those yellow shaded area you talk about lower copay, is that
specifically tier two access and higher copays tier three, four? Or is lower mix of tier two and
three?A - David R. Epstein `
So, different plans have different systems. But in general, the lower one, the light yellow is a
combination of tier two or patients that are low income assistance patients in Medicare who get a
special out-of-pocket, which is typically between $5 and $10.
Q - `Kerry Holford, Exane Ltd. `
Okay. Thank you very much.
A - David R. Epstein `
You're welcome.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of Graham Parry from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Graham G. Parry, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. Thanks for taking my questions. So, firstly, on Entresto, just want to try and understand why
there is almost no uptake of Entresto in the fourth quarter despite 65% coverage in commercial.
Is that due to free sampling? Is it destocking or is prior authorization still just the key there? So
perhaps you can quantify those elements to give us a better feel for just what the underlying was
in the fourth quarter. And secondly on Alcon, perhaps give us some feel for the size or scale of
M&A that you consider to build pipeline at Alcon? And then thirdly on serelaxin, when in 2017
should we expect the Phase III pivotal data now? And what was the rationale for including
worsening heart failure as an end point in the trial, when the product was essentially rejected on
that end point by the FDA on the first time around? And does that reflect a lower certainty from
Novartis on meeting the end point on mortality alone? Thank you.
A - David R. Epstein `
Okay. So the first question is around why didn't we see more business on the commercial side
given better access? In fact, majority of the business did come from the commercial side during
the course of 2015. I don't have the exact figures in front of me, but it was north of 65% of the
business, despite commercial being less than 35% of the patients.
And what you got to remember here is I show you a chart at the end of October. What it really
means is we didn't really have any access in the month of October. You're only talking about
November and December. December is a holiday month, and there's not enough time to
accumulate prescriptions.
Having said that, we see – I just want to remind everybody, each week, the number of
prescriptions is going up and the number of prescribers is going up. So the trend is in the right
direction. We believe by reducing the access hurdle, which is now largely accomplished in the
launch of the product with the field force, with the appropriate marketing materials, we will see
an acceleration that occurs starting now, but it will take really until the second quarter till you to
start to see something really material in the back half of the year to see a nice inflection.A - Joseph Jimenez `
And Graham, regarding the Alcon size and scale of M&A or in licensing, these are all relatively
small deals because now that we focus the division on Surgical and medical devices, they are
mainly small companies with interesting new technologies that we could click in. But you're
looking at relatively small up-fronts significantly below $1 billion. But those are the kinds of things
that we think we'll be able to bring in and click right in and move into a period where we could
launch in 2017 and start to impact 2017, 2018, and 2019.
A - David R. Epstein `
And then, Graham, I have Vas Narasimhan sitting next to me, our Head of Development. And
given that he's much more intimately familiar with the program than I am, I'm going to ask him to
answer the serelaxin questions.
A - Vasant Narasimhan `
So, Graham, thanks for the serelaxin question. We currently forecast a complete study enrollment
in Q4 this year. And then there's a sixth-month follow up for those patients to reach the primary
end point. So, we would expect to read out in the first half of 2017.
Now, in terms of the worsening heart failure, we did complete an interim analysis, you'll
remember last year, which had the study continue and we remained blinded to the study results.
So, there's nothing new that's caused – that has led us to add worsening heart failure. Worsening
heart failure was added more to be in line with what we think would be our competition is doing
and also to give us two shots on goal moving forward. That led to a sample size expansion to
allow us to fully power to the mortality end point. So, that's what's driving this.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of Jeff Holford from Jefferies. Please go ahead.
Q - `Jeffrey Holford, Jefferies LLC `
Hi. Thanks very much for taking my question and thanks for spending so much time on Entresto
and Alcon, which investors are very focused on right now. But just one more follow-up on Entresto
from me. Just one thing that investors and we can all get a bit concerned about is a bit of
physician fatigue by the time access opens up, perhaps they've tried to prescribe a few times
and perhaps it's not ended well. So can you just give us the feedback that you had or just
experience in terms about those cardiologists you have been accessing, that there hasn't been a
build-up of frustration there and potentially a lack of willingness to prescribe now that access has
opened up?
Then if you can just talk a little bit about LEE011. Just what you think your target profile is versus
palbociclib, the end market product, if you think that there are any specific points of
differentiation that you'll be looking for when that reads out? And then I wonder if I can just temp
Dan into just a bit more help on the pharmaceutical side in 2016. It's clear that consensus needs
to revise down sales for a number of products in pharmaceuticals and you've spoken to Entresto
on consensus. I think it's clear that Afinitor has some challenges this year. Are there any other2016 within the pharma business, where perhaps we need to rethink some of our assumptions?
Thank you very much.
A - David R. Epstein `
So, regarding Entresto, so what we found is and the cardiologists are interesting to talk to,
essentially if they would try one patient in the plans that is not on formulary, the vast majority of
them would not try again. So I don't think there was any fatigue issue that has to be really worried
about. In addition, what we started to do during the fourth quarter is we increased our program
to give a month of the product away for free particularly so the patients could get started when
we were anticipating that access would open up which should start to help.
Regarding LEE011, we think this is going to be a very big class of drugs. We believe that while we
are clearly behind in the U.S., we'll be second. We believe, in Europe, the time gap between our
approval and the Pfizer approval is not as great, which given our commercial strength should be a
big help.
In terms of the differences in the drug in terms of monotheraphy, they seem actually ballpark
similar in terms of efficacy, although there aren't any cross-study comparisons. It looks like palbo
and LEE have more neutropenia, while the Lilly drug appears to have much more diarrhea and
we'll have to see how that ultimately plays out. And then our strategy with the drug is one of
combinations; combining with exemestane, combining with AstraZeneca's fulvestrant, combining
with our PI3 kinase inhibitor with an idea that we can come up with a combination that's even
better than the single edge agent and then catch up and maybe even ultimately leapfrog if those
combinations work.
I was a little bit nervous about talking about consensus for Entresto and Cosentyx, but since they
were new products and we felt the deviations were pretty meaningful, we decided to do that,
which is not usually what we do. But I really don't plan on giving a consensus estimate for every
other product. I think you have to look at the overall guidance that Harry provided. Thank you.
Q - `Jeffrey Holford, Jefferies LLC `
Thanks very much.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Next question.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of Tim Anderson from Bernstein. Please go ahead.
Q - `Timothy Minton Anderson, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Thank you. A few questions, please. On slide 70, upcoming catalysts in Pharma, there's two
Phase III readouts not listed which is BAF312 and Fovista. I'm wondering why those are not on that
slide.
Second question on emerging markets; 4% in the quarter, what should we be expecting in 2016?
Third question, just going back to Alcon, can I – did I understand it right? You expect operating
margins are likely to dropout in 2016 in that division with growth thereafter. And then on Entresto,you talked about prior authorization. Does any of that entail a fail-first policy where patients have
to fail either in ACE or an ARB before they get clearance to go on Entresto?
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Okay, David, maybe the catalyst of BAF and Fovista.
A - David R. Epstein `
Yeah. So, BAF will in fact have a Phase III readout roughly mid-year 2016. And Fovista, the two
pivotal trials that are run by our partner Ophthotech, they will be – our understanding is they will
be analyzing the data at the same time in late 2016. And so those are as expected.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
And then, Tim, in terms of emerging markets, if you look at the trends there, we started the first
quarter I think at about 11% growth. We went to then – 7% growth as those economies started to
slow. And fourth quarter was 4%. So we continue to expect the emerging markets to slow
through 2016. I don't know where to call it in terms of what will happen. I don't think that growth is
going to go negative. I mean there is – the emerging markets have been bouncing around
anywhere from mid-to-high single-digit and double-digit at some points. So I would assume that
4% is a low number. We didn't think we're going to see it, but we have seen it. And it's partly
driven by what's happening in China and Russia.
And so, I think you should expect to assume that that's going to continue. In terms of Alcon, yes,
you did hear me right, in terms of trough margin in 2016, not necessarily 2015. And then, David,
on Entresto?
A - David R. Epstein `
Yes. I don't have every prior authorization plan in front of me, but we'll certainly go back to the
team. So I can't rule out that there isn't some plan somewhere that has language you use. If
however, certainly possible, that some plans will require that a patient have been on an ACE or an
ARB because you remember we had the two-week run in period in our clinical trial, so some plans
will use that as part of their prior authorization process.
Q - `Timothy Minton Anderson, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Thank you.
A - Samir Shah `
Next question.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Vincent Meunier, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc from Morgan Stanley. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Vincent Meunier, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Good afternoon. Thank you for taking my questions. The first one is on the U.S. pricing. Based on
your comments earlier today, do you think there is a sort of inflection point particularly in the U.S.?
The second question is M&A and particularly for Alcon. I understand that it will be essentiallymade of bolt-on acquisitions for new technologies, but is there a trade-off between the Pharma
M&A and the M&A for Alcon?
And the last question is on Entresto, can you please give us what is your target when the drug will
be more stable in terms of sales split by channel and also profitability by channel? Thank you.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
U.S. pricing, David, do want to talk about that on the Pharma side?
A - David R. Epstein `
Yeah. So, it's an interesting story that's evolving. If you look overall at the U.S. market, clearly, the
various payers who have merged, somebody bought chain pharmacies, bought PVMs have the
ability to slow adoption more than they did in the past and to command greater price discounts.
Having said that, they're much better at it when there are alternatives available, so to the extent
that there are multiple products in a therapeutic category, they're doing a very good job at
extracting discounts from providers. When there is not an alternative, they get much lower price
discounts, if any discount at all.
I think the new thing that we really learned with both Entresto and Cosentyx is that they have
really now developed their tools extensively around introduction of new drugs, which creates a
period of time where access is difficult and then it gets resolved. And that period of time actually
is now longer than it is in Europe, which is probably the biggest striking change in terms of the
market.
The market's crying for high-quality pharmaceutical products at a lower price. They want drugs
that are cost effective. That's why we're trying to move to more outcomes contracts, get value
for additional life and for offsetting health expenses. And the problem is not going to go away
any time soon, and I believe in the U.S. market eventually, there will be a political solution to
address the very high out-of-pockets for patients because it doesn't do the world any good to
spend all this money on innovation if the patients ultimately can't get the medicine at the
drugstore because of the copay.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
And then on the M&A question on Alcon, yes, they're obviously – we look very, very hard at how
we're going to spend our capital spend across the different businesses, and we have the same
hurdles for each of the businesses around what it's going to take to get capital allocated from
the group.
Now, again, what we're talking about in Alcon are relatively small transactions where you might
have $100 million or $200 million, maybe $300 million upfront with milestones after that, and
we've all seen the impact of being able to show steady and consistent sales growth and earnings
growth. So there is something to be said in terms of how investors would reward small bolt-on
acquisitions in Alcon and in that Surgical business and that's why that's still on the list. And then
David in terms of the Entresto?
A - David R. Epstein `
Yeah. For Entresto, I'm not going to say much more. I mean we've been given peak sales
guidance. We've now outlined the path for 2016. Clearly, in terms of channels, Medicare is bigger
than commercial in terms of patient numbers, but beyond that I'm not prepared to say more.A - Joseph Jimenez `
Okay. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of Tim Race from Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
Q - `Tim M. Race, Deutsche Bank AG (Broker UK) `
Hi, there. Three questions please. First, just on Sandoz. You talk about the U.S. pricing pressures.
Can you just discuss what they actually are? Is that specialty pharma related, dermatology,
anything in particular, potentially, could you discuss that?
Then just on pricing of Entresto in Switzerland and Germany in the example you shared, what's
the relative pricing of Entresto versus U.S. and Germany and Switzerland? And then finally maybe
just on Alcon, if you don't mind. Can you just remind me, what is the strategic fit of Alcon within
the group of Novartis? Is it there as a diversification element because it doesn't really fit with the
rest of the business, especially now you're moving drugs to Pharma. So have you gone through
the whole process of whether you would actually spin this division and that keeping it was a
better alternative? Thank you.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Okay, let's start with Richard on Sandoz.
A - Richard Francis `
Okay. Thank you for the question, Tim. So if you look at U.S. pricing, it really falls under two sort of
categories. You have the pricing that's forced through the channel and the consolidation that we
spoke about a bit last year and the year before. And then you have just the competitive
environment you have in the U.S. where the more competitors come in, the price actually gets
forced down. And the timing of those and when those happen is very unpredictable. And so, it's
those two factors which have led to the pricing situation we saw in quarter four in the U.S.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
David, on Entresto?
A - David R. Epstein `
So in the U.S., as a reminder, the list price per day is $12.50. But of course, in the U.S., discounts
are prevalent, sometimes mandated by the government, sometimes negotiated with individual
plans. The pricing in Europe is clustered around €5 to €5.5 to give you a ballpark idea. Just to
caution is we are still early in negotiations in many countries. So, it's going to be a while before
we know some of the other markets.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
And just regarding the strategic fit of Alcon, if you think about our strategy of focusing on high
growth areas of healthcare where there's a high level of unmet need with global businesses that
are number one or number two in their sectors, this fits. Now at the same time, we got to prove
that we can grow sustainably and that's really what we're focused on this year. And we've got a
clear growth plan, we've got milestones that we have to see. If we're not able to deliver that,then that's a different question. But right now, we're going to take the next 12 months and we're
going to execute this and see if it's going to play out the way that we think.
Q - `Tim M. Race, Deutsche Bank AG (Broker UK) `
Thank you.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Okay. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Naresh Chouhan, Liberum Capital Ltd. from Liberum. Please go ahead.
Q - `Naresh Chouhan, Liberum Capital Ltd. `
Hi there and thanks for taking my question. Just one question left from me. Can you just give us
some color on the 12% decline in Afinitor in Q4, and whether or not we should be expecting that
to continue or potentially accelerate through 2016? Thanks.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
David, Afinitor in Q4.
A - David R. Epstein `
You asking me specifically about sales, right?
Q - `Naresh Chouhan, Liberum Capital Ltd. `
Sales in the U.S. Yeah.
A - David R. Epstein `
Yeah. So just remember, for full year we were up 10%. In Q4, we were minus 4%. These are
worldwide growth numbers. And as I said, it's driven by the launch of Ibrance which won't change.
There are also some reimbursement changes in the UK. You know that they took some products
off the drug cancer fund.
And then just in general, there are price decreases in Europe, not just for Afinitor but for the vast
majority of plans across multiple European markets. So, I would expect this product to decline in
breast and renal, and it would grow in some of the newer indications of tuberous sclerosis
complex and neuroendocrine tumors, and I think the open question is eventually as this product is
pushed to a later line of therapy, will patients roll off that first line and eventually come back to
Afinitor and that's hard to judge at this point in time.
Q - `Naresh Chouhan, Liberum Capital Ltd. `
Thank you.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Next question.The next question comes from the line of `Florent Cespedes, Société Générale SA (France) from Société Générale. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Société Générale SA (France) `
Good afternoon, gentlemen. Thank you very much for taking my questions. Three quick ones.
First, on ophthalmology pharmaceuticals, how could you reenergize this business knowing that it
is quite difficult to innovate, and you are suffering from generics and Lucentis not growing? Could
you envisage any unique growth? And then two questions on the respiratory. First on the U.S.
market, for the U.S. market with the (105:50) products are you still looking for a partner to boost
the sales there, and last question on respiratory and severe asthma, do we have to understand
that now the focus will be following the negative results on the product Xolair, the focus will be on
triple combo and the QAW039? Could you give a little bit more color on these products and your
strategy into asthma, thank you?
A - Joseph Jimenez `
David?
A - David R. Epstein `
Okay. Good. So, starting in Ophtha, we actually see a number of opportunities to develop
products faster than were possible before given the depth of the pharma development
organization. In particular, there are two opportunities. One is – actually three. One is to do
additional lifecycle management in some of the existing brands. Ophthalmologists sometimes
want versions of a product that are single-use, preservative-free, et cetera, et cetera.
Second, in the area of retina, we now have an opportunity to put together in a more seamless
way a program that develops both Fovista, RTH, Lucentis in a way that will be more powerful and
more impactful. So essentially, we hope to bring innovation forward.
And last but not least, there's a very good connection – a better connection than existed in the
past, with Alcon than ever, but the Pharma Alcon connection is actually quite good now, which
means there's a number of novel programs coming out of Jay Bradner's shop focused on AMD,
dry eye, anti-inflammatories. Some of these will have proof of concepts in the near future. And
with this setup, we think we can bring those forward more quickly.
In terms of the U.S. respiratory Seebri and Ultibro, yes, those discussions with partners continue.
I'm hopeful that in the next couple of months we'll be able to tell you exactly how that played out.
And then, in severe asthma, we think it's a very interesting field. We have Xolair, in allergic
asthma, which is selling well and continues to grow. We're developing the double and triple
combination with a steroid, so Ultibro is a steroid in severe asthma ex-U.S. And then you saw on
my chart the QAW development program. And when you look earlier in the (108:31) portfolio
without going into specifics, there's actually other programs that look like they could be
interesting in that field. So, it's a category – respiratory is a category that we're committed to.
Thank you.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Thank you. Next question.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of Michael Leuchten from Barclays. Please go ahead.Mr. Leuchten, your line is now open.
The next question comes from the line of `Steve Scala, Cowen & Co. LLC from Cowen. Please go ahead.
Q - `Steve Scala, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Thank you, I have three questions. Two for David. First, you mentioned that you think LEE011's
interim look could be positive. Is this just based on what you've seen from Ibrance studies or are
there signals from the LEE clinical trials that are increasing your confidence?
Secondly, what are your latest thoughts on Lilly's ixekizumab relative to Cosentyx, given that
ixekizumab likely will be approved very soon? And then lastly, in the past Novartis has expressed
uncertainty about the uptake of a generic version of Gleevec, and whether or not it will have all of
Gleevec's indications. Do you have any more clarity now, and is Novartis certain that Sun will
launch the beta crystal form and of adequate purity on February 1? Thank you.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
David?
A - David R. Epstein `
Okay. So, starting with LEE, I know nothing in addition other than modeling the Ibrance response
rates and trying to port those over to our program to look at the interim analysis. In terms of
Cosentyx and the competing program from Lilly, there's a couple of places to think about in
terms of differentiation. First of all, breadth of indications, so we have now three indications in our
label. My understanding is they will have one or perhaps two when they launch, which is important
for physicians and also formulary placement.
Second, we have long-term data. We actually have data that goes out now three years. And you
see really nice sustainability of effect, and we believe that's because of the very low
immunogenicity with Cosentyx. And my understanding is with the Lilly product, there may be
higher rates of immunogenicity. And we don't know whether or not the product will work as well in
year two and year three.
And last but not least, at least from the data that's been shared so far and maybe there'll be
other data is that the Lilly drug had more injection site reactions than Cosentyx. Having said all
that, the Lilly drug is a good drug. It seems to work well. And I think having more than one IL-17 in
the market will grow the share for IL-17s and we welcome the competition.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Okay. I think we have time for one more question.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of Marietta Miemietz from Primavenue. Please go ahead.
Q - `Marietta E. Miemietz, Primavenue Advisory Services Ltd. `
Thank you. I have a couple of quick questions for David. The first is on China. In Spring 2015, I
believe, they really cracked down on hospital drug budgets. Should we think about as one of
reset that will lapse soon and then China growth can potentially recover, or is it a more
continuous process in terms of controlling drugs spend there?And secondly on the ABL inhibitor. So Tasigna is clearly more potent than Gleevec, but it's just
very difficult to come up with a robust data set that can really compete with the massive Gleevec
data set. So I'm just wondering what data do you actually think you will need, not to file, but to
really prevail in a commercial market of Gleevec's generics, and how fast do you think you can
potentially get that data?
And then I just wanted to check for the 2015 procurement savings. Do you think that we can get
anything like that again in 2016, 2017, or is that coming to an end? And finally, Joe, I was just
wondering whether I could just make sure I understand the method for calculating the potential
Alcon target margin correctly. So if I understand correctly, 2013, 2015 margins were up potentially
structurally a little bit high, and now you're investing $200 million relative to an earlier plan that
probably also had some incremental investment. So when all of the dust settles, then would you
say we should take out a lot more or a lot less than $200 million out of the, let's say, 2013, 2014
profit, to get to an appropriate benchmark for the target margins for Alcon? Thank you very
much.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Okay. David?
A - David R. Epstein `
Okay. So, starting with China. So, China is putting in place a number of reforms across sectors
but, in particular, in healthcare in order to both control spending and to expand access to
medicines across their population. So there are positives and negatives. You're right, they
changed the drug-prescribing incentive, which slows growth. You asked whether that would be
cyclical. I mean, obviously, the impact at the beginning is greater than later on because of an
inventory draw that happens within hospitals. Having said that, there are multiple other changes
to reimbursement policies in China, including more bidding on a local basis which depending
upon the product and the company can either be an upside growth or a downside growth.
Having said all that, the Chinese market, overall, has clearly slowed. From about a year-and-a-half
ago, it's growing about 14% a year. And the overall market, according to IMS, is now growing 4% a
year. We're doing much better than that, but nonetheless, the market has slowed. And given the
Chinese issues with their economic growth in general, I would not expect it to bounce back in the
near term. But eventually, we all hope that the Chinese market economy does ultimately
rebound.
In terms of ABL001, it's a completely different mechanism. It doesn't bind in the same target as
Gleevec or Tasigna, so it's not just a potency issue. We see that patients who have failed multiple
lines of therapy respond. We also see synergies when both drugs are studied together. So we
actually see several opportunities to create a nice market opportunity for the product.
And what I want to do is I want to wait until the next of set of studies is done. I'll be able to
indicate to you – we'll be able to indicate to you a little bit more on what the dose is and what the
development strategy for the product is. Thank you.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
Procurement?
A - Harry Kirsch `Yeah. On procurement savings, Marietta, as you mentioned, our procurement team together with
the businesses has done a very good job creating $480 million in the quarter for a very high
number. On the other hand, we have continued opportunities, the project pipelines are full. And
therefore, I continue to expect very good levels of procurement saving.
Certainly, also, the announcement of integrating development functions, as well as centralizing
manufacturing, we can give additional opportunities on the procurement side.
A - Joseph Jimenez `
And on the Alcon margin, the thing that I was referring to was we ended the year with a full-year
Alcon margin of about 31%. I've said that $200 million is what we're going to spend back, so that
would take into the high 20%s.
And beyond that, what I'd like to do is let's get through 2016 and then we'll provide more
guidance in terms of longer term on Alcon and what the expectations are. So, we've got a lot of
moving parts. We're focused on turning the business in the back half of the year. And I think we'll
be in a much better position as we see that turn to really provide an outlook for the business,
both from a top line and bottom line that will be sustainable.
Okay. I want to thank everybody for joining us. We look forward to providing updates as we move
through the year. And with that, I'll close the call.
Operator
Thank you for joining today's conference. You may now replace your handsets.