Q4 2017 Earnings Call

Operator
Good morning and good afternoon, and welcome to the Novartis Q4 and Full Year 2017 Results
Release Conference Call and Live Audio Webcast. Please note that during the presentation all
participants will be in listen-only mode, and the conference is being recorded. A recording of
those conference call, including the Q&A session, will be available on our website shortly after the
call ends.
With that, I would like to hand over to Mr. Joe Jimenez, CEO of Novartis. Please go ahead, sir.
`Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, sorry for the technical difficulties. Good afternoon, everybody, and welcome. To start off, I
would like Samir to read the Safe Harbor statement. Samir?
`Samir Shah, Global Head-Investor Relations `
Good afternoon, everybody. The information presented today contains forward-looking
statements that involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors. These may
cause actual results to be materially different from any future results, performance, or
achievements expressed or implied by such statements. Please refer to the company's Form 20-F on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for a description of some of these
factors.
`Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Samir. Okay. Since this is my last quarterly earnings call as CEO of Novartis, I'm going to
have the bulk of the presentation presented by `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer, who you know, our CFO, is going to
cover 2017 financial performance. `Paul Hudson, Chief Executive Officer, Novartis Pharmaceuticals, Head of Pharma, is going to give us more detail
on Cosentyx and Entresto, and then then Vas, incoming CEO, is going to outline his vision and
priorities for Novartis going forward. But first I just want to share my thoughts on slide number 4.
You have seen from the press release that, we can say 2017 was a good year for the company.
We grew sales in constant currency despite the patent expiration of Gleevec. We had a great
year in terms of innovation. We executed well on the growth drivers and returned the Alcon
business to growth. And at the same time, we continued to strengthen the company by
implementing the new operating model.
So as I come to the end of my time as CEO, I'm leaving confident that the company is in good
hands. Vas and I have worked very closely over the last few months planning and preparing for
this transition, and the next phase of this company is all about executing on the growth potential,
and I know that Vas and the executive committee will be focused on bringing the pipeline to its
full potential.
So now I'd like to turn it over to Harry to talk about the 2017 results in detail.
`Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Joe. Good morning, good afternoon, everyone. As usual, my comments refer to
growth rates in constant currencies and compared to prior year, unless otherwise noted.
On slide 6, I want to start with a quick comparison between the guidance we gave in January last
year and the final results. As you can see, we came in above or at the upper end of our guidance.
Full year sales were up 2% and core operating income, both in line with prior year, despite 2017
being our second year of Gleevec generic erosion.
Turning to slide 7, we show the quarter four and full year results. On left side, you can see that we
have very good performance in quarter four. Net sales grew 2% and core operating income
growth accelerated to plus 5%. In the full year, sales grew plus 2% and strong performance of our
growth drivers, including Cosentyx and Entresto, more than offset Gleevec generic erosion.
Core operating income was in line with prior year, as sales growth and productivity fully offset
generic erosion and growth investments. Operating income grew 7%, including lower
amortization. Net income grew 12%, driven by higher income from associated companies. Core
EPS was $4.86, growing 3%, including the benefit from the share buyback program. On free cash
flow, we have delivered a solid full year growth of plus 10% to $10.4 billion.
Now moving on to slide number 8. These are the key brands, as you know, in Innovative
Medicines driving our top line performance. As expected, the greatest contributions came from
Cosentyx and Entresto, and Paul will provide more details on those later. I want to point out that
Promacta, Tafinlar + Mekinist, and Jakavi continue to grow strongly, with sales increasing around
30%. Kisqali was launched during 2017 and contributed full year sales of $76 million. As a result,
the total Oncology business unit sales, excluding Gleevec, were up 10% in the full year and 13% in
quarter 4.Now let's turn to the margins on slide number 9. As you can see, all divisions grew core operating
income in quarter four, resulting in the margin improvement to 25% for the group. Innovative
Medicines sales grew 4%, leading to 9% growth in core operating income. Core ROS increased
to 30.5%, driving the overall group margin performance.
Sandoz sales declined 4%, mainly due to industry-wide pricing pressure in the U.S. However, core
operating income grew plus 1%, as the sales decline was offset by continued strong gross margin
improvement and gains from the divestment of small tail and nonstrategic assets. Core ROS
increased to 20.9%.
Alcon sales grew 6% in the fourth quarter, driving 36% growth in core operating income. Core
ROS was 14.1%. To note, in quarter four stock in trade movements accounted to approximately 1
point of Alcon sales growth. So the underlying cc sales growth is about 5% in quarter four, in line
with the underlying growth in quarter three.
On slide 10, you see the Alcon quarterly results throughout 2017. For the full year, sales grew 4%
and core operating income grew 5%. Importantly, Alcon grew sales in every quarter based on the
actions taken by Mike and his team to fix the basics, improve operations, and customer relations.
As a result of this, Surgical grew 5% and Vision Care grew 3% in the year. And with the continued
progress of the turnaround in Alcon, we expect continued sales growth and improved margins in
2018.
Slide 11 shows our strong free cash flow of $10.4 billion in 2017, up 10% versus prior year. This was
mainly driven by favorable working capital, lower legal settlement payments, and lower CapEx.
On slide 12, you see our improving CapEx trend over the past five years. CapEx was higher in
2013 through 2015, as we completed our new campuses we bought from Shanghai. In 2017, we
continue to prioritize our investments in manufacturing projects.
On slide 13, you can see that net debt stood at $19 billion at the end of the year. The increase
was mainly driven by the $6.5 billion annual dividend payment, net share repurchases of $5.2
billion, mostly offset by the $10.4 billion free cash flow in 2017.
On slide 14, we propose dividend of CHF 2.80 per share. This is in line with our policy to have
strong and growing dividend in Swiss francs. It's an increase of 2% in Swiss francs and 6% in U.S.
dollar. In terms of payout ratio, this dividend represents 87% of our net income and 64% of our
free cash flow.
Slide 15 shows our full year guidance for 2018. We expect group sales to grow low-to-mid single-
digit. For Innovative Medicines division, we expect sales to grow mid-single-digit, driven by a
continued uptake of our growth drivers.
For Sandoz, we expect sales to be broadly in line to a slight decline with 2017 due to continued
industry-wide pricing pressures we assume in U.S. For Alcon, we expect sales to grow low-to-mid
single digits. We are pleased with the 2017 return to growth, and look forward to another strong
year as the Alcon team completes the turnaround.
The transfer of the ophtha OTC products into Alcon will not have a material impact on 2018 top
line growth, but will increase Alcon's margins. We will issue updated segment financials reflecting
the new structure toward the end of quarter one. For group core operating income, we expect
growth to be in the range of mid-to-high single-digit.On slide 16, let me briefly comment on the expected half one and half two core operating
income dynamics. We expect our Innovative Medicines growth drivers to deliver an increasing
contribution throughout the year. Of course, Alcon results are expected to be a growth
contributor, but we also expect Sandoz U.S. price pressure to continue, which likely results in
Sandoz sales decline in half one.
In half one, we also expect a stronger impact from Gleevec generic erosion, the tail end of it, and
investments behind oncology launches. Therefore, we expect core operating income in quarter
one to be broadly in line to a low single-digit increase versus prior year. In half two, we expect
stronger core operating income growth, which will benefit from expected increased contribution
of Innovative Medicines launches and new launches at Sandoz.
On slide 17, I would like to add some perspective on other key elements of our expected bottom
line performance in 2018 beyond core operating income. We expect core net financial expenses
to be about $100 million higher, mainly due to the higher interest cost, including financing the
AAA acquisition and for the full year effect of the bonds we issued for the 2017 share buyback
program.
On core tax, we expect a slight positive effect from U.S. tax reform, but how positive is not yet
clear, as the details and interpretations of the law still have to be finalized with the IRS. We also
expect a shift of profit mix to higher tax jurisdiction and as a result, the core tax rate could stay
broadly in line with 2017 or increase slightly to around 16%. We will update you with quarter one
results on where we think we will be for the full year on the tax.
On slide 18, you see how currencies would impact our results if mid-January rates prevail for the
remainder of 2018. Due to the weakening U.S. dollar mainly versus the euro, the full year currency
impact on sales would be plus 3%. The full year impact on core operating income would be plus
4%. For quarter one, the currency impact would be plus 5% on sales and plus 6% on core
operating income. We will continue to publish every month the expected currency impact on our
website.
And with that, I'll turn it over to Paul.
`Paul Hudson, Chief Executive Officer, Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Thank you, Harry, and good afternoon – good morning to everybody. It gives me great pleasure
to share some of the highlights from the Pharma business. Entresto surpassed the $500 million
mark in 2017, delivering on our promise for patients and, indeed, for the business. Q4 recorded
the strongest quarter-on-quarter growth this year, plus 43% worldwide with a full year growth of
over 195%. Performance is fueled by continued momentum and progress on access and uptake
ex-U.S. as well. We're now launched in over 60 countries, just France to come.
Now we won't guide to a specific number this year. I'm very pleased with our current trajectory
and it's probably worth saying that we've seen and learned that Q2 and Q4 are the areas where
we get our biggest volume uptakes. So signposting 2018 is going to be important to establish
what we could actually achieve this year.
Next slide, thank you. As the underlying dynamics in the U.S. have taken a real positive trajectory,
I've put on here the January number plus couple of data points, so 22,000 on TRx. We broke the
20,000 in December for the first time. We sort of predicted this would happen. We said that our
peak productivity per salesperson would really reach optimum impact in November/December
and, indeed, that has happened exactly as we hoped.We're picking up over 640 new writers in the U.S. every week. Over 55,000 physicians having
prescribed Entresto, and although cardiology remains the bulk of the prescribing, it is fair to say
PC adoption is accelerating.
The underlying access situation has also improved as well and we regularly get questions on this,
our coverage in Med D is up to 93%, our coverage in commercial is at 70%, and importantly, no
PA restrictions in Med D at 60% and no PA in 48% in commercial. We will improve that slightly in
Med D in the first quarter of this year.
Looking longer term, and I said this time last year that we would try and give some sense of
perspective about how big Entresto could be when we exited Q4 of 2017. Whilst delighted with
the performance, we can now see a path for reduced ejection fraction that would take us
somewhere beyond $3 billion before LOE .
Now, on this chart you can see we've tried to dimensionalize preserved ejection fraction in
relation to reduced ejection fraction, whilst no real credible medical treatment in preserved
ejection fraction. We get our final read out in the summer of next year. We think there was some
good education this is going to provide, not only a great benefit to patients in HFpEF, but also
have a positive impact on reduced ejection fraction patients.
What does that mean ultimately? Well, we think it means that we'll be somewhere before LOE a
$4 billion to $5 billion at peak medicine in Entresto. And importantly, we expect Entresto to be
margin accretive from the very beginning of 2019.
Turning to Cosentyx. Now, Cosentyx itself has had also a fantastic 2017. We've seen new entrants
launched, but we've seen ourselves become a multi-blockbuster in the full year. Q4 sales of $615
million, which is 11% quarter-on-quarter growth. In fact, we've seen growth in all indications, in all
geographies. Our ex-U.S. performance, in fact Q4 results are annualizing now at $1 billion on their
own.
Now, with new entrants, we've still continued that great performance. So our NBRx leadership,
out of all of the new entrants in Q4, has been maintained, despite Taltz and Tremfya. In fact, our
NBRx growth over that period is the leader amongst all of the medicines. Outside of psoriasis, in
spondyloarthropathy, we continued to maintain market leadership against Humira and Enbrel in
AS and PsA, which is a huge statement of the clinical benefits of this medicine.
2018 is an important year clearly with Tremfya, Taltz, and of course, with risankizumab to come at
the end of the year and we've been very thoughtful again about our rebating at the beginning of
2018. Our access is in very good shape, in fact, for 2018 and we recognize what an important
year it is to decide who comes through this year in great shape, because after that, most of the
innovation is in the market and our opportunity to grow for the next half decade is in play.
Let me give you some sense of perspective on my last slide around dimensionalizing the
opportunity for Cosentyx. We get continually asked questions and mainly around psoriasis, so
we've tried to share over the last year how big an opportunity PsA, AS, and indeed, in the future
non-radiographic axial SpA is. The number of PsA systemic treated patients is bigger than that in
PsO. The number of AS patients is almost the same size, if not slightly bigger, than PsO. And you
know I think that the anti-IL-17s have a greater degree of efficacy in AS and PsA and non-
radiographic axial SpA. What that does is set us up in a very strong position for our performance
over the long term in these indications.
Importantly, though, in psoriasis, we still make a breakthrough. We have landmark five-year data.
We have head-to-head studies, most recently the CLARITY study versus Stelara, and we feelstrongly positioned, because the efficacy bar has now been set and probably doesn't need to go
any higher. We feel well-positioned to win and to at least preserve and grow share in psoriasis.
Right across the indications, we're already deployed in dermatology and rheumatology. So the
need to add more investment becomes less and which is a great opportunity for us, given that
our overall expectation is that we can become a blockbuster in each of these indications
separately.
So, in coming to a conclusion, we're delighted with the progress with Entresto. With Cosentyx, I
think it's a great statement of our ability to commercialize on the great science from the
company. I'll hand over to Vas.
`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Medical Officer & Global Head Drug Development `
Great. Thanks very much, Paul, and thanks everyone for joining the call. As I come into the CEO
role, I'd like to share some of my initial reflections on the future direction of Novartis.
Over the past five months, I've been getting external perspectives on the company, meeting with
investors, meeting with external stakeholders, as well as meeting with our own internal
associates, and really trying to develop a strong perspective on the company, informed by my
many years here, but also trying to take an outsider's view. Now, my thinking will continue to
evolve and I look forward to keeping you updated over the coming months and years, but I
wanted to share some of my initial thoughts.
Now, if you go to the next slide, as you all know, we face a dynamic and complex external
environment. When you look at the opportunities for a company like Novartis, there are high
unmet needs that remain with many people around the world not living to their full healthy life
expectancy. We have many new therapeutic modalities and platforms that are coming forward, as
we demonstrated with our work with Kymriah in cell therapy, and I think there are many more to
come.
There's increasing demand for curative therapies and improvements in quality of life, and we're
clearly in the midst of a data and digital revolution in pharmaceuticals, but also across multiple
industries. But we also face challenges that you're also all well aware of, increasing competition,
rising and more difficult standard of care to beat, increasing payer and pricing pressure, and an
industry reputation which we need to continue to strive to improve.
Now, when I reflect on where Novartis stands with respect to these opportunities and challenges,
I sincerely believe we're well-positioned for the future. We have global scale, we have innovation
power, we have world-class talent, and we've really increased our capability in data and digital,
which I think will power us into the future.
So if you go to the next slide, our aspiration, as a leadership team, is to lead for the long-term.
From a strategic perspective, that means continuing to lead as an innovator of transformative
therapies, be a leader in data and digital, be a productivity leader in building a lean and agile
organization that can confront the challenges that we'll face, and a leader in attracting and
retaining the best talent in the industry.
From a financial standpoint, and for our shareholders, we want to drive solid and sustainable top
line growth, drive ongoing core margin expansion, deliver solid cash flow, and keep improving our
return on capital employed.
Now moving to the next slide, when you think of all that in perspective, if you go back to theCiba-Geigy and Sandoz, this was the core of the company. And 1996 was the formation of
Novartis through 2009, we became a diversified healthcare group, spanning a number of
different sectors in healthcare. Now, under Joe's leadership, we've undertaken a portfolio
transformation, where we've really focused the company in three leading businesses, Sandoz,
Alcon, and Innovative Medicines.
Now, as I look into the future and look at a more complex environment, an environment that's
going to be increasingly competitive with rapidly changing technologies, I believe we have to
focus the company as a focused medicines company powered by data science and digital
technologies. This will allow us to allocate our capital to where our core capabilities are. We'll
continue, of course, to evaluate if relevant adjacencies make sense, but we really want to focus
our investment in our core.
Now, when you go to the next slide, as we look to the future, there'll be five priorities we'll be
driving across Novartis for the years to come. First is increased focus on operational execution to
ensure launch excellence, high levels of productivity, and keep driving that margin improvement.
Second is to pivot even harder the breakthrough innovation. Access will also remain important
with our Sandoz Division, but we need to pivot the high end transformative innovation; be a data
and digital leader, rebuild trust with society; and shift our culture to a more inspired, empowered,
and un-bureaucratic organization.
I also have four specific goals over the next five years related to our longer-term financial
performance, and I wanted to discuss those with all of you today. So if you go to slide 30, when
we look out in the next five years, I believe we're well-positioned to drive dynamic sales growth.
When you look also of our 2017 base, we will have a generic impact of Gleevec, Afinitor, and the
tail-end of Gleevec. But as Paul nicely outlined, when you move to the next bar, Cosentyx and
Entresto are growing well. In addition, we have multiple potential blockbuster launches coming
through the portfolio in the next three years. And when you look across that portfolio, I think there
are exciting medicines, like, BAF, RTH, amongst others.
In addition, our Onco growth drivers continue to perform well. As Harry mentioned, excluding
Gleevec, we achieved over 10% growth in our Oncology business. Kisqali, Kymriah, and Rydapt
are key growth drivers for us that we believe will continue to help us deliver on our growth
trajectory. And finally, with the leading biosimilars portfolio in the industry and Alcon returning to
growth, both Sandoz and Alcon will also contribute to this growth dynamic.
Now moving to slide 31, we're also committed to expanding our margins. If you take Innovative
Medicines specifically, our full year 2017 margins were around 31.3%. We know our industry –
relevant industry peers are in the mid-30s in terms of their core operating margins per our own
estimate.
Now, we believe we can be in this range by accelerating our key growth drivers, continuing to be
aggressive with resource allocation and productivity across our commercial unit, and with the new
operating model we've set up to drive synergies across Novartis Technical Operations, NBS, and
drug development. Now this will, of course, be offset by the challenges of generic entries, as well
as the need to invest in our potential blockbusters, but our ability to drive core margin
improvement will be a key priority for us as a leadership team and for myself as CEO.
And then moving to slide 32, when you think about our innovation power, our ability to keep
reinventing our pipeline is absolutely critical for our long-term success. We've demonstrated over
the recent years that we have leading industry pipeline productivity. We have limited binary riskanother. And when you look at some of the highlights on this slide, 21 Breakthrough Therapy
designations, 90 MMEs in the clinic, we think our innovation engine is strong.
Lastly, on the longer-term perspective, I want us to turn to capital allocation. Now, Novartis has
been very disciplined in capital allocation under Joe, and we plan to continue that with our four
key priorities, investing in our organic business, growing our annual dividend in Swiss francs,
pursuing value creating bolt-on acquisitions, and I'll continue to have a focus on looking at
acquisitions that are true bolt-ons, where we believe will bring in new technologies and
capabilities into our core area as a company, and then share buybacks when appropriate.
An external analysis on the right-hand side of this slide shows the kind of discipline that we've
had. When you look at R&D as an investment decision of our cash, you could see that we've
consistently invested over the last five years 35% of our cash into R&D. We have a solid
investment into CapEx at 15% and bolt-on M&A at 15%. And then we've returned 35% of that cash
to shareholders in the form of share buyback and dividends, and we want to continue to maintain
that kind of capital discipline.
So moving to the next slide, I'd like to turn to 2018, as well as wrap-up and give you some
perspectives on how we see this year unfolding. So moving to slide 35, 2018 is our return to
growth, and it's going to build the foundation for the future of the company. We have multiple
priorities across each of the five areas that I've described earlier, and they all will enable us to
deliver the financial outlook that Harry provided.
I'd like to go into a few of these in more detail. So turning to slide 36, in operational execution,
our core priority is going to be to continue to drive our key launch growth drivers. With Cosentyx,
we want to maintain our competitive edge in psoriasis, as well as grow our penetration in SpA, as
Paul has nicely outlined. With Entresto, we want to keep the momentum going we have in the U.S.
and drive further uptake in Europe and around the world. And then finally, in Oncology, where we
have a broad portfolio, our goal will be to continue to maximize our GSK acquired brands, as well
as our launch brand.
Now with Kisqali, we did have a slower start than we had hoped, but we continue to believe with
the MONALEESA-7 data coming out positive, as well as the upcoming MONALEESA-3 read out, as
well as our launches now across the European marketplace, that we can continue to drive Kisqali
towards a blockbuster medicine.
With Kymriah, we'll add our DLBCL launch when approved in the U.S. and Europe, and with Rydapt
we have the potential to transform the care of AML patients. Overall, we believe, in Oncology, we
have the opportunity to continue to drive dynamic growth in one of our most important
segments.
Moving to slide 37, as well in operational execution, it's going to be critical for us, given the
challenging environment we're in, to deliver on our upcoming blockbuster launches. You can see
that across the next two years we have six major launches, as well as six more potential
significant launches in 2020. Our ability to deliver through the registration process, prepare these
launches, and execute on them flawlessly is core to our executive team's goals and we'll continue
to provide you updates as we progress in preparing for these important medicines.
Now on slide 38, we're also progressing on the portfolio review of Alcon, as well as accelerating
our review in Sandoz and focusing on a differentiated portfolio. With respect to Alcon, our
management's focused on completing the turnaround, as you saw nicely in the performance in
quarter four. We're making progress towards a capital markets exit with the dedicated teamsworking towards that, but there's no change on the timing of a potential action. We continue to
guide towards the potential action in the first half of 2019.
Now, with respect to Sandoz, we have a very strong global Sandoz business and it's growing well
outside the United States, as well as the leading biosimilars portfolio, but we are facing
challenges, given the U.S. oral solids industry-wide pricing pressure in the United States. We will
plan to continue to reshape our U.S. business with a focus on more complex products, and that'll
include looking at how to best shape that portfolio for us to be successful in the future and we'll
continue to keep you updated as those decisions evolve.
On slide 39, finally, on operational execution, our goal will be to continue to drive the cost savings
that we've outlined in the past to deliver over $1 billion of savings in Novartis Technical
Operations, drive flat cost in Novartis Business Services, and keep our R&D spend in the 20%
range, enabled by increasing scale and better digital technology.
Now moving to innovation, there's a few additional updates I wanted to provide to the group. So
2017, as Joe outlined, we had a real landmark year, 16 key approvals, 16 key submissions, 6
Breakthrough Therapy designations, and importantly, a rebuilt interface between research and
development that's allowed 14 new projects to transition into the mid-stage portfolio.
Now turning to slide 41, what we expect in 2018 is 15 key approvals and 15 key submissions,
highlighted by a couple of big ones. Aimovig, our migraine prevention medicine, is on track for
approvals in both U.S. and Europe, and we recently released additional data from a trial called
LIBERTY, which demonstrated Aimovig's effectiveness in patients who had failed two to four prior
lines of therapy. We believe that's a unique data and will be compelling to payers to enable us to
build an excellent launch for Aimovig.
We also have Kymriah, which continues to progress as well, and DLBCL in U.S. and Europe. And
two key submissions that I want to particularly highlight, RTH258 is on track for a submission in Q4
of this year. We've initiated the bridging study, which we've previously outlined. And BAF312 is on
track as well for filing in the first half of 2018.
So moving to slide 42, one of the other areas I wanted to provide an update on is on the IO
portfolio. So when you look at the IO portfolio, we are a leader in CAR-T and I think you're all well
aware of that, and we've continue to expand our CD19 CAR-T presence across a range of B-cell
malignancies, and we'll be starting a range of pivotal studies in the coming months across the
various indications.
We also continue to progress our CAR-T programs in solid tumors, so of course, the science is
more challenging. But now in our IO/IO combinations and other efforts within immuno-oncology,
as we've previously outlined, we've in-licensed 19 second generation IO agents. And we're now
in a position to say that we're initiating, as we previously outlined, our trials with canakinumab in
the non-small cell lung cancer adjuvant in metastatic setting.
Our Phase III is ongoing with PDR001, our anti-PD-1 with Mekinist + Tafinlar in melanoma. And we'll
be initiating late-stage studies in three combination programs with our anti-PD-1, one with
INC280, our cMET inhibitor in non-small cell lung cancer; the second with our anti-LAG antibody,
LAG525 in triple negative breast cancer; and finally, our PD-1 plus our adenosine receptor
antagonist in non-small cell lung cancer. So we look forward to providing additional data on the
performance of these agents in upcoming medical congresses over the course of this year.
Finally, on innovation on slide 43, we continue to have strong progress in our mid-stage pipeline.
Just wanted to briefly highlight, we have a range of readouts in both the Phase II – Phase IIreadouts, as well as Phase III initiations, continuing to build the mid-stage pipeline that will enable
us to drive future growth, and be happy to answer questions regarding this in the Q&A.
Slide 44, we announced two recent deals, which I wanted to make sure everyone was aware of,
with the acquisition of Advanced Accelerator Applications, which we completed this week. It
brings into the portfolio a near-term launch in Lutathera, which is already now approved in
Europe, and we're expecting an approval in the U.S. in the near term. And that also brings into the
portfolio potential therapies in prostate cancer, gastric cancer, amongst others solid tumors.
And we also announced a partnership with Biocon in biosimilars, and this partnership enables us
to broaden our portfolio of the next wave of biosimilars, enabling us to share development costs,
but also expand our commercial footprint. And as I previously stated, we'll continue to look at
such partnerships and bolt-on opportunities.
Now on the last three points, just to briefly highlight. In data and digital, we continue to make
good progress in our ability to build core digital capabilities in our R&D operations and our
commercial operation and our technical operations. This will be critical for us to drive further
productivity gain, but also enabling us to find new patient populations, new medicine, and we
believe drive innovation in the company into the future.
Now on slide 46, one of the important priorities for me, as CEO, will be to rebuild trust with
society. We, as a company, want to hold ourselves to the highest standards in term our values,
our quality, our compliance. We want to be a leader in delivering value-based healthcare to
healthcare systems and continuing to work to expand coverage of our medicines in underserved
populations, and this will be something we'll continue to focus on and we believe will be
important for investors to consider when looking at a company like Novartis.
Lastly, I want to just turn to a brief comment on culture. Culture is what, is the DNA of any
company of our size with the legacy that we have and it's increasingly recognized that culture is a
factor that can make the difference between a very high performing organization and a mediocre
one.
Now in Novartis, we have high levels of engagement, great collaboration, strong commitment to
our core purpose and values. We believe we now have an opportunity to focus on culture to drive
a more inspired and powered culture, eliminating bureaucracy, to enable the best ideas to come
forward, entering into a world where we have to attract the next generation of talent, getting this
cultural transformation in place is going to be also a priority.
I'd like to close just on one last comment before the closing slide on a recent appointment. We
brought on Liz Barrett as the CEO of Novartis Oncology. We're thrilled to have her on board. She
has 20 years of oncology experience across a range of geographies. She'll be succeeding Bruno
Strigini, who we thank for his excellent contributions to the company, and we'll look forward to
introducing Liz to all of you in upcoming interactions.
So to close, we're incredibly excited about the future of Novartis. We're focusing Novartis as a
medicines company powered by data and digital. We're entering a next growth phase with a full
pipeline to sustain growth into the future, and we're transforming our productivity, culture, and
reputation. And we look forward to continuing to demonstrate to you the performance of the
company in the quarters to come.
So with that, I'll hand it back to Joe for the Q&A.
`Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `Thanks, Vas. Okay, we're ready for any questions that you have.
Q&A
Operator
The first question comes from the line of `Vincent Meunier, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `Vincent Meunier, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Hello. Thank you for taking my questions. The first one is on corporate and capital allocation. I
mean, you said earlier today that the stake in consumer is attractive, so how should we read this?
Does it mean that it has reached the right valuation point, or does it mean you still see upside in
terms of generation of synergies? And, I mean, to put it more simple, what will be the rationale
for keeping a stake in consumer, given the clear picture you just described, dominated by
transformative innovation, data driven medicine, et cetera?
Second question is on Innovative Medicines. Could you make comments on your ability to sustain
your operating margins, and even maybe improve the margins further going through the wave of
patent expiries in a couple of years?
And lastly, on Sandoz, the pricing pressure and the commoditization of the U.S. generics has
worsened, despite the improvement of core margin. So what should we expect now, any
stabilization or further improvement for the top line? And to which extent can you continue to
maintain the profitability at this level? Thank you.
A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `
Vas?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Medical Officer & Global Head Drug Development `
Thanks for the question, Vincent. So on capital allocation and the GSK stake, the GSK stake is a
financial stake for us, where we put these two businesses together with an expectation we would
drive synergies, and we have a clear strategic plan we've agreed on with the leadership of the
consumer group at GSK.
Now, what we see going forward is an opportunity to fully realize the value of that stake as that
business plan is executed. So we're continuing to monitor that, but we want to, of course, think
about our timing of when we might exit that big base on a value creating situation, and we think
that's not been reached yet. So it would be some more time before we think our value is just fully
realized.
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Hello, Vincent. So on the Innovative Medicines margin, we absolutely think it's sustainable
and the improvements also are sustainable. You saw on the slide from Vas that we actually
expect over the next years to improve the industry benchmark, and I think we have several levers.
Actually, Vas laid them also out. One of them is, of course, over the next couple of years less
generic exposure. Then the growth drivers that Paul with Cosentyx and Entresto laid out, and the
whole Oncology portfolio outside of Gleevec. And then, of course, all the productivity initiatives
we have driven and which we continue to drive.The majority of the Technical Operations savings up to $1 billion is not yet achieved, still we're on
a very good way. We're actually slightly ahead on that program, but still a lot to come. So I believe
both on top line, on the productivity programs, we have a lot of margin improvement potential
for the future.
A - `Paul Hudson, Chief Executive Officer, Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Thank you, Vince, for the question on Sandoz. So there's a few points there, so I'll try and go
through them. We anticipate in 2018 the pricing pressure in the U.S. market to continue. And
beyond that, we start to see that our portfolio mix starts to play a role as we move the portfolio
far more towards the biosimilars, which we have coming through in the differentiated specialty
products. Obviously, we filed a number of biosimilars in the U.S. and we'll start to see those
coming through. It's more of a question of timing.
Going onto your core margin, I mean, to talk about gross margin, you've seen gross margin
improve throughout the course of this year, and that comes down to the strategy we've been
executing around geographical focus and portfolio product mix. And we've been focused on the
geographies, which we think will drive long-term profitable growth and making sure that our
portfolio mix can also do that. And that's why that has continued to improve, and we're going to
continue executing that strategy and, obviously, with the biosimilars coming through, we're
confident that that can happen.
So I think, hopefully, that answers your question. I think one of them in there was the top line
growth. Obviously, we forecasted a flat to slight decline, and that's taking into account the fact
that we've got a good business, as Vas said, ex-U.S. that's growing in 2017 and we continue that
growth in 2018. But the pricing pressure in the U.S. is something that's holding back that growth.
And although we have the biosimilars coming through, which is a very exciting portfolio both in
Europe and the U.S., it's really the timing of that and the impact that can have on the top line for
2018. So, hopefully, that answers your question.
A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from the line of Jeff Holford calling from Jefferies. Please go ahead.
Q - `Jeffrey Holford, Analyst, Jefferies LLC `
Hi. Thanks very much, everyone, for taking my questions. So first off, Vas, I wonder if you can
elaborate a little more on where Novartis has an edge on data and digital. Are these skills and
capabilities internal or external, and how and when will we see this manifest in terms of R&D,
productivity, and margins? Is this through machine learning to discover drugs and targets, use of
blockchain to increase clinical trial efficiency, or are those things still a way off?
And second, just on Sandoz and the generics business, I wonder if you can just give us a bit more
color on your thoughts on the future of that business, and if you could potentially give us a score
of 0 to 10 as the likelihood of ever separating that. That would be interesting, I think.
And then just last for Paul, on Entresto and Cosentyx, when do you think we're going to reach the
point of true stabilization on net pricing, particularly in the U.S., for both products now that access
to both seems to have improved and be pretty good? Thank you.A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Medical Officer & Global Head Drug Development `
Thanks, Jeff. So on data and digital, as Joe previously announced, we have now a Global Head of
Digital Medicines that is reporting into the CEO, so is reporting to me, Bertrand Bodson. He
comes from actually the tech sector. He's worked in Amazon, he's worked in retail. He brings a
very different mindset to thinking about technology and how technology can impact a business
like ours.
I would say there's three levels of how we're thinking about embedding data and digital. So first
is automation, how we can bring automation into all elements of the business to drive
productivity, and there we're really making concrete progress. Whether that's automating our
safety case processing, automating our data management, automating our approach to supply
chain, automating many of our FRA and other elements within our financial work. This automation
should, over time, deliver real productivity gains in the company.
The second is, how can we use this technology to help us make better decisions? And there as
well, we've rolled out couple of platforms, one within Global Drug Development to help us
choose clinical trial sites, to optimize our patient enrollment patterns, and figure out when we
need to intervene on studies. We've also got a – you saw on the slide, a Digital Cortex at NIBR,
which is looking to help us better tie a target to – identify the right target and identify the right
molecule using these kinds of technologies and maybe not some of the older technologies which
was historically used.
But the biggest opportunity where we're still in the early days is to use deep learning and artificial
intelligence to identify completely new indications, completely new medicines and there, we are
investing. We have a series of partnerships with external companies. We have partnerships as
well with a number of universities, and that's an area of investment, because in the longer term if
we can use the power of data to find new drugs that are more high efficacy and patient
populations that are going to respond better, that's going to drive tremendous value for the
company and value to society. So I would say, we're in the early days, but we've made substantial
progress and stay tuned for us to make more concrete progress and give you real concrete
outcomes.
Now with respect to Sandoz, Sandoz is a $10 billion global business that is attractive, that has
many different – good, highly performing elements. So first, I think in biosimilars, we're a leader.
We had double-digit biosimilars growth. We've over $1 billion in sales, a broad portfolio, more and
more launches coming. So quite pleased with how we're progressing in biosimilars. And then
similarly, when you look at our hard-to-make generics business, our work in injectables, inhalables,
et cetera, I think this is also a very strong performance that we've seen around the world.
Also when you look at retail generics outside the United States, depending on the geography,
but overall, we've had great performance over the recent years in our retail generics business.
And that ties in as well to the fact that we have a big tail of established medicines as well as we
do like any pharmaceutical company, both in Pharmaceuticals and Oncology.
So there's a clear fit and synergy there. I mean, right now, our energy is focused primarily looking
at the U.S. oral solids business, where it is a discrete business. It's a unique situation. There are
significant pricing declines. At least in the medium term, we don't see a shift to that situation, so
we're assessing how best to optimize that, given that dynamic.
A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `A - `Paul Hudson, Chief Executive Officer, Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Yeah, Jeff, thanks for the question. I'll answer mainly relating to the U.S. market. I mentioned
earlier that Entresto will take the benefit of some small adjustments just to remove a few more
PAs. Whilst we think the national picture is in good shape, just one or two plans that we want to
just make sure that we give the patient the best shot in getting the meds, and so we feel good
about that.
As for Cosentyx, I also touched on it, that 2018 is a quite important between the two new
entrants already here and one more to come. We felt it was important to be thoughtful, not rash,
but to make sure that we had a strong position for 2018. The market will settle down after 2018,
we hope, certainly in terms of share, and then we'll get to decide how quickly price settles down
too. So I think Entresto, I think some stability now really and going forward. I think Cosentyx
probably another year before we really see it settled, but we're pleased with our position.
A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, please.
Q - `Jeffrey Holford, Analyst, Jefferies LLC `
Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. The next question is from the line of Tim Anderson calling from Bernstein. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Timothy Minton Anderson, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Thank you. A high level question for Vas. So as the new CEO, I'm sure you're focused on making
sure that nothing really goes wrong. But when you look ahead in 2018, can you just identify for us
what you think could be the couple of biggest challenges that lay ahead that maybe make you
worried? Is it something like the Cosentyx trajectory? Is it making progress on certain pipeline
products? What would be the two or three things that are the greatest risk, in your opinion, in
2018?
And second question goes back to Sandoz. You had mentioned biosimilars, an important driver
today year-on-year growth, I think quarterly sales were about $300 million. But when are we
going to really see that start to blossom in the numbers with Sandoz? Is that the sort of thing
where we'll see sharp acceleration in 2019? Is it more like 2020? And is there any way for you to
kind of just put a stake in the sand and quantify how many billions of new revenues this could
bring into the Sandoz P&L over the course of, let's say, five years? Are we talking a couple billion,
are we talking $5 billion? Anything like that.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Medical Officer & Global Head Drug Development `
Okay. Great, thanks, Tim. In terms of what I'd say the big risks are for 2018, I'd outline three that
are top of mind for me. One, we have a couple of binary events within our Sandoz portfolio that
we need to go our way, and we're going to be watching them carefully. One is the timing of
Copaxone 40 mg, and then the other is the timing of the Advair generics approval. I think these
are things that are difficult to predict. We've done all of the right things. I have confidence that our
team is approaching this in the best possible way, but these are just items that are difficult toThe second is going to be turning Kisqali. We need Kisqali to continue to perform towards where
we have it hoped. I think the combination of the MONALEESA-3, the MONALEESA-7 data, as well
as the fact that we're not as far behind Pfizer in Europe, should enable us to get pickup on Kisqali,
but that's something we're watching closely.
I hope that in totality, when you look at Rydapt, Kisqali, and Kymriah, that those can really enable
our Oncology division to drive growth, the growth that we all hope for and expect from a
business like that. And so I think those would be the big two on the top line.
I think on the pipeline, I mean, the key is, for us, to deliver on RTH and BAF in terms of filing
timelines. These are important medicines. We're on track. We feel good about where we are, but
these are the two, I think, we're going to have to deliver on.
Now in terms of Sandoz, to give my perspective on biosimilars, we've invested and built a broad
portfolio. I think in Europe – it's really a tale of two worlds. In Europe, we're seeing very strong
uptake. We're seeing a organization that's able to launch biosimilars with great success across
multiple geographies. We're going to be launching more over the course of this year, as Richard
can highlight.
And then in the U.S., we have a dynamic where we know eventually there's going to be a
significant uptake for these medicines. It's a healthcare system that desperately needs biosimilars
to be successful, to create physical space for new medicines; payers, the FDA, HHS, are all on the
side of biosimilars. We know we do have to overcome first the complexity of the patent hurdles in
the U.S. and we have to overcome the complexity of the payer dynamic in the U.S., but we're fully
aware of that. We're confident we can do it. I think it's not a matter of if, it's a matter of when,
and then we would continue to expect biosimilars to be a multibillion-dollar business for us.
Richard, any other additional thoughts?
A - `Richard Francis, Chief Executive Officer, Sandoz `
I think you said it really well, Vas. I think the way I look at it, it's similar. It's not an if, it's a when. And
if you look at the pipeline that we filed, adalimumab, infliximab, rituximab, pegfilgrastim, and
that's all coming in the not-too-distant future both to Europe and the U.S., which are the largest
markets. I think we've set ourselves up really well and we feel we can execute. Despite some of
the challenging unknown environment, we can pivot well. So I think we're set for the medium
term. It's a timing issue in the U.S. that we've got to manage carefully.
A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Richard Vosser, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc calling from JPMorgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `Richard Vosser, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
Hi. `Richard Vosser, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc from JPMorgan. Thanks for taking my questions. Just a couple of questions on
Sandoz, first of all. Just the assumptions you've taken into 2018 on generic Advair and Glatopa,
what contribution you have in the guidance for Sandoz?
Then just going back to the Biocon deal. Could you go into a bit more detail around the rationale
for that deal? Was it driven by gaining new products? I would have thought commercially Novartiswould have more presence than Biocon. So, I know you mentioned commercial, but that seems a
lesser effect. And just wondering whether this signifies a thought that the opportunity in
biosimilars might be less attractive, perhaps there's more competition.
Secondly, on Alcon, could you just talk about the inventory fill that you've had benefiting the last
two quarters? Should we think about this reversing or is this an ongoing fill for the new material
IOLs?
And then just finally on PARAGON, you sounded quite bullish on the PARAGON trial, so just some
thoughts on what's behind that. Do you have increased confidence in the interim readout or in
the trial overall? Thanks very much.
A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `
Richard?
A - `Richard Francis, Chief Executive Officer, Sandoz `
Thanks for the question, Richard. So on the assumptions on Advair and 40 milligrams Copaxone,
so the assumption for Copaxone 40 milligrams is that we aligned with Momenta on this, and we'll
launch the second half of the year, sort of the time that we have around. That, obviously, we're
working closely with the FDA and our manufacturing partner Pfizer to make that happen. On
Advair, we have forecasted we will launch that here into a competitive market, so that's the
second assumption you asked for.
On the Biocon deal and the rationale behind that, to build on more what Vas said in his
presentation. We're currently the number one biosimilar company in the world. We aim to stay the
number one biosimilar company in the world. We believe having a broad and significant portfolio,
it's important to do that. And as much as we have the largest portfolio now and we currently are
developing products to increase that, we also see the rationale and the benefit of partnering with
a company like Biocon to make sure we have an even more extensive portfolio. I think that's the
deep rationale behind the Biocon deal.
A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `
Mike?
A - `F. Michael Ball, Chief Executive Officer, Alcon `
So just addressing the inventory position. With respect to what Harry said earlier on, it's about 1%
of our net sales in Q4, so that was a underlying 5%. As we go forward, it's tough to predict the
different shifts, et cetera, one thing can offset the other. So I won't predict things moving forward,
but I will say is what I said in the last call, which was that most of the inventory adjustments took
place in 2016 relative to our surgical business in the Asia market. Again, there's a lot of offsets
going back and forth.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Medical Officer & Global Head Drug Development `
And then on Entresto, the thing we've always highlighted about the PARAGON study is it's our
unique end point that we've taken repeat hospitalizations to really learn from all of the past failed
trials within preserved ejection heart failure. Now the interim readout in 2018 is just that it's an
interim readout. I think the reduced ejection fraction study was a very unique situation, where we
had an astonishing p-value, which enabled the study to be stopped earlier.I think in this case, because it's going to be likely an endpoint-driven, less by death and more by
hospitalizations, repeat hospitalizations, we're going to need all of the endpoints in order to
demonstrate efficacy. So that's why I think the interim readout will be useful, but we really would
still guide to a mid-2019 firm readout on the study. And in terms of the opportunity, Paul?
A - `Paul Hudson, Chief Executive Officer, Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Yeah. So, Richard, as Vas has outlined, there's nothing specific that's getting us more excited or
less. We'll just go through the normal results. The only thing I would add is, in terms of executing
with that indication, I think that's what we're much more confident than we've been previously.
You have to remember that by the middle of 2020 or early 2020 when we'll be campaigning, our
working knowledge of cardiology community, the patient population, (00:57:27) really an
absolutely critically high level. So we think we can do more with it when we get it than we thought
previously, and I think that's why we're excited about it. And after all, there is no medical
treatment and we are the only real credible alternative in this space.
A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from the line of Andrew Baum calling from Citi. Please go ahead.
Q - `Andrew S. Baum, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Good morning. Three questions, please. First, I know you have an SGLT1/2 inhibitor in Phase II, it's
1,000-patient program, which is very substantial. Could you just help us to characterize the profile
of this molecule versus the existing SGLT2 inhibitors, both in terms of weight loss, nausea? And
I'm assuming you'd be able to do a Phase III start as early as beginning of next year. And then
finally, is there any risk to your Entresto outlook from the established SGLT2 inhibitors, given the
anticipated data?
Second, could you comment at all on whether you've seen any abscopal responses with your
STING agonist in combination with your PD-1? You've been dosing it for a while now in
combination. And then finally for Vas, and I may have missed this, in which case, I apologize.
Following your ascension to CEO, who takes the Head of Development and the CMO spot?
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Medical Officer & Global Head Drug Development `
Thanks, Andrew. So, on the SGLT1/2, so this is a unique drug that targets equally SGLT1 and 2.
See, SGLT1 is expressed on the gut, whereas the SGLT2 is expressed in the kidney, both
transporters are involved with glucose transport into the intracellular space. So what we thought
in a Phase IIa study with this medicine is a significant weight loss over a relatively short period of
time, of 12 weeks. We saw extrapolated value that would indicate we could get from – to 15% to
20% weight loss perhaps out at one year.
So what we've done is we've enrolled a Phase IIb study, which was one of our fastest enrolling
studies that I can recall. That's now fully enrolled and we're now waiting for the Phase IIb results.
We should have that result over the course of this year. And then if it was positive, we would then
look to move it forward in obesity in a Phase III trial that could start at the end of this year or early
next year. Overall, the side effect profile is good. And one of things we are looking at is toNow with respect to the STING agonist plus PDR001 and the abscopal effect, I don't believe
we've publicly disclosed anything further. I think our partner, Aduro Biotech, will plan to disclose
more about the STING molecules performance soon. So I would prefer not to comment on that at
this time.
And in terms of GDD, we named a interim head, his name is Rob Kowalski. He's a Pharm.D, he's
our Global Head of Regulatory Affairs. He's been our Global Head of Regulatory Affairs now for
over six years. One of the most well-respected people in this space, knows all of the key
regulators, knows all of our key programs, so he'll be continuing to guide the shift as we
complete the search for a successor.
A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `
And, Paul, the risk of Entresto?
A - `Paul Hudson, Chief Executive Officer, Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
So, to my understanding, the SGLT2 studies are on top of standard of care in heart failure, so we
wouldn't expect anything other than as an add.
A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch calling in from Bank of America. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great. Thanks for taking my questions. So, Vas, going back to slide 30 and 31, I wonder if you
could help quantify the sales upside that you're expecting by 2022 and just concern the relative
proportions. And I'm afraid, I did get my ruler out and it looks as if you're proportionately
expecting about half of your incremental growth to come from Cosentyx, Entresto, and new
launches, and about a third from Oncology. But could you just confirm that it is representative?
And secondly on Pharma margins. When you're talking about industry margins in the mid-30s, is
that a target or an ambition? And what absolute operating cost progression are you expecting to
see to get to that sort of level? So are you thinking flat, are you thinking inflationary growth, and
then the rest coming from top line leverage? And do you expect to grow margins each year
through Gilenya and Afinitor patent expiries in the Pharma business?
And then thirdly, could you help us understand how to read the lack of renewal of the $5 billion
buyback this year in terms of your appetite for M&A? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Medical Officer & Global Head Drug Development `
Thanks, Graham. So we figured everyone will be taking out their rulers on slide 30, but I think it
would be – it's not our intention to provide specific guidance when you look across those next five
years; only to indicate we believe we can deliver solid growth over that period of time. We'll, of
course, continue to keep you updated. I would say proportionately, we do believe the key growth
drivers will be Cosentyx, Entresto, and the launches as the number one growth driver in the
company, followed by the growth of the existing Onco and recently launched portfolio. So I thinkthe relative contributions are accurately depicted, because these are based on our own current
forecast – the graph is based on our own forecast of our outlook.
Now in terms of the margin, I'll take a stab at it, and then Harry can add. When we look at this
mid-30s, I mean, this for us is a goal to get to the mid-30s and we believe we can deliver a
margin improvement between now and 2020, and that's what we previously stated and we
continue to stick to that aspiration to deliver consistent margin improvement between now and
2020.
Now the way we do that is in part, we get through some of the patent expiries, particularly
Gleevec. We have strong growth in terms of our key growth drivers, which now are getting to be
accretive, as Paul mentioned, as well as continuing to drive strong productivity measures and
resource allocations, as the slide outlined. Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
I fully agree. I think it will be also a combination of very accretive top line growth. As you know,
many of our growth drivers are our own products or fully acquired, so there's no royalty burden or
very limited, whilst the generic erosion, for example, Gilenya, has a royalty on it. So we have, also
from a gross margin standpoint, I think some good opportunity and overall a combination of sales
uptake and good cost management and all the productivity initiatives that we have set up for the
company. So I think, therefore, we are well established for sales growth for the five years, as well
as margin growth in the years. As you know, 2020, from the sales growth standpoint will be a little
bit challenged with Gilenya U.S. and Afinitor U.S., but we believe with our growth drivers, we will
also get through that.
A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `
Buyback.
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
On the buyback. So we have completed our up to $5 billion share buyback program in 2017.
Under that program, we bought back $4.5 billion. We did buy another $700 million worth of
shares back from employee participation programs, as we have an ongoing commitment to
always avoid any dilution from employee participation programs. And as now the AAA bolt-on
acquisition has to be financed, we simply adjust our capital allocation priorities and we don't finish
the $5 billion, so to say, but we stop at $4.5 billion in 2017.
A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `
And, Vas, I think, Graham's question also about your appetite on M&A, does it signal a higher
appetite for M&A?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Medical Officer & Global Head Drug Development `
We continue to have the focus on bolt-on acquisitions, like AAA, that build into our core
therapeutic areas and they're bringing new capabilities into the company. So we're actively and
continually looking at those kinds of opportunities. I think, as you all know, valuations in the sector
continue to be quite high, so we're only going to pursue things where we're clear we can create
value for the company and our shareholders, but nonetheless, that is the focus.
A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `Next question please.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Société Générale SA from Société Générale. Please go ahead.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Société Générale SA `
Good afternoon, gentlemen. Thank you very much for taking my questions. Three quick ones.
First for Paul on Cosentyx. You explained that the products enjoys a strong potential beyond
psoriasis, but could you give us an idea of the current sales breakdown by indications?
Second question on immuno-oncology. Could we have some color on when we will have more
visibility on the program? And in other words, when we should have meaningful clinical results,
although early-stage could be good to have such update?
Last question on Sandoz. You explained that you want to focus your company on a more
differentiated portfolio, but could you share with us what is the proportion of your business which
is coming from difficult to make products, value-added drug beyond the Biopharma sales that
you disclosed? Thank you.
A - `Paul Hudson, Chief Executive Officer, Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Florent, thanks for your question. We don't disclose the sales by indication, geography, but I can
tell you, we're growing in all indications, in all geographies. I think one point that you know
specifically from the publicly available datasets, I mentioned it earlier is our performance in
spondyloarthropathy PsA and AS in the U.S. And it does get a little bit overlooked, but to be a
market leader on new patients in the U.S. against Humira and Enbrel gives you some indication
about our ability to execute particularly in the indications outside of psoriasis. And we do
extraordinarily well in psoriasis too.
A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `
Vas, on IO?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Medical Officer & Global Head Drug Development `
In terms of the IO results, Florent, we expect to release those results in the upcoming medical
congresses. I mean, we would target ideally ASCO, but it might be in other congresses later in
the year, so you'll be hearing the results from those three combination studies in that timeframe.
A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `
And Richard?
A - `Richard Francis, Chief Executive Officer, Sandoz `
So to give you an idea of the makeup of the business, I think all we've (01:08:19) sort of the
business architecture we've got, so as Vas pointed out, we have – we see the biosimilar business,
which is over $1 billion now. We have a significant OTC business. We have a branded generics
business, which is a business which we promote, which in itself isn't differentiated apart from that
we create brands, so those are significant aspects of our business.
I think when you look at the U.S. exposure to more of the commoditized business, I think Vas andpressure. But as I said earlier, we're aiming to move that business with the launches of our
biosimilars significantly away from that portfolio make up, as well as we'll be introducing products
that go through the 505(b)(2) pathway, which by definition will also have a level of differentiation.
A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, please.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Société Générale SA `
Okay. Thank you very much.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC from Cowen. Please go ahead.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Many thanks. I have a few questions. First, on generic Advair, if it were approved tomorrow, would
you be ready to launch in the U.S.? What proportion of demand could you satisfy? And you
mentioned it would be a competitive market. Are you implying you expect other generics? So
that's the first question.
Second, Vas, you didn't mention the Roche stake, at least I didn't hear you mentioned it. Any
updated thoughts?
And then lastly, on Entresto, Harry, you mentioned Q4 adjustments. Would you please quantify?
Thank you.
A - `Richard Francis, Chief Executive Officer, Sandoz `
Okay. So we don't actually give guidance on when we're going to launch and sort of assumptions
around possibilities. What we are anticipating is we'll launch it this year into a competitive
environment. We anticipate other people will come to the market with Advair just based on other
communications from other companies with that product, and that's how we've assessed and
modeled ourselves for 2018.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Medical Officer & Global Head Drug Development `
So on the Roche stake, there's no change really. It continues to be something we view as a
strategic stake that we continue to evaluate on an ongoing basis and as soon as there's a change
in our perspective, of course, let everybody know.
A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `
Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, Steve. Actually I didn't mention anything on Entresto, but just to also make it clear, there
were no adjustments. So this is pure demand, also no stock in trade movements or anything.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Thank you.A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from the line of Matt Weston calling from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Thank you very much. Two questions, if I can. The first on Cosentyx. You highlighted how
important access and growth is this year. The one thing that we had noticed is the – changed a
number of healthcare plans which has kicked in, that manufacturers' co-pay assistance will no
longer be allowed to contribute to a patient's deductible. And, I guess, my question is, how do
you expect that to impact growth, not only of Cosentyx, but in the whole of the specialty
category going forward, given how significant that is to the pharma industry?
And then the second question on Entresto, Paul, I note that in 4Q the release highlights that you
launched in China. In terms of the underlying – or in terms of the growth we saw in revenue in 4Q,
can you walk us through how much of that was underlying patient demand versus channel filling?
Thank you.
A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `
Paul?
A - `Paul Hudson, Chief Executive Officer, Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Thank you, Matthew. Two quick points on Cosentyx, and the first one is, yes, I do think access is
important for 2018. Like I said, this next 12 months has all the major players in the market, so we
want to come out of this year in a strong position in terms of preferred by dermatologists,
rheumatologists, with great access. So we made great progress there.
I think you're referring to the co-pay accumulator that is a sort of emerging trend in the United
States. Just a first initial observation on that. The affordability and co-pay we put in to help
patients in the United States is for patients, and the biggest loser in any change across the sort of
pharmacy benefit design would be the patients in this situation. It's causing a lot of confusion.
It's an industry-wide phenomena and it would affect everybody, give or take where their medicine
is in the benefit design more or less. We have picked it up. We understand what the implications
are. We clearly considered all scenarios. We're comfortable with where we sit, the industry has
picked it up, and really the biggest loser in the short term is the patient, and that's not a good
situation for anybody.
A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `
Entresto, China?
A - `Paul Hudson, Chief Executive Officer, Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Yes, Entresto, China. So we did get approved in China, whilst we're not reimbursed. The team
have done a rather excellent job. We have 2,000 patients approximately that have been initiated
drug in the few months since launch, and that has meant that we have about $4 million worth of
demand pulled inventory.There are no non-demand generated stocking effects. And, in fact, if you look at December's
outturn, from an industry perspective, it's consistent with all previous months and the December
before that, so we feel very good about the underlying demand for Entresto.
A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, please.
Operator
Next is `Michael Leuchten, Analyst, UBS Ltd. from UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Michael Leuchten, Analyst, UBS Ltd. `
Thank you for taking my question. If I could ask about the value of the volume both for U.S.
Entresto and U.S. Cosentyx, and I'm looking at the quarterly sequential development here, where
we've seem to have seen a soft spot in Q2/Q3 for Entresto, and I know there's strong uptick of
the value to volume in Q4. Whereas for Cosentyx, we've sort of seen a slide throughout the year.
So could you comment on channel mix? Could you comment on rebate adjustments? Could you
try to explain what – that fluctuation in those two products, what's driving that? Thank you.
A - `Paul Hudson, Chief Executive Officer, Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
I mentioned in the upfront presentation that what we've learned over the last year to two years is
where the demand to bring in and the appetite to bring in chronic patients who have considered
themselves well-controlled, but aren't. We see during the summer just a staffing, in cardiology
staffing point that bringing in and reviewing and titrating patients slows down on a chronic med on
somebody that's thought to be, but isn't well controlled. So that sort of slowdown as we came
out of Q3 is a phenomenon you see with new entrants with chronic diseases, particularly in
cardiovascular. The step-up in Q4 is really just about our ability to execute on all the plans pulling
through, no least productivity from the sales force.
Cosentyx is interesting. Again, remember, we said at the beginning of last year that we do some
thoughtful rebating. We had to grow volume throughout the remainder of the year, because
that's what makes rebating make sense, because you bought the access, and we've done that
also this year – so we intend to do that this year. The bit that I think gets missed also is that free
drug programs got rolled in in the second part of the year and patients that we were supporting,
then became part of the overall, which of course has a small impact on the value per TRx, but
we're really pleased and the evolution of the value is exactly as we predicted.
A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, please.
Operator
Next question is from the line of `Kerry Holford, Analyst, Exane Ltd. calling from Exane. Please go ahead.
Q - `Kerry Holford, Analyst, Exane Ltd. `
Thank you. Just a couple of questions remaining, please. So firstly a question for Harry, just
looking at the disposal gains and the milestones that were booked in Q4, I think that fell within
core earnings. I wonder if you could quantify those, the Vaccines milestones from GSK, and the
Sandoz disposal gains, please.And then just quickly on Gleevec and Tasigna, I think Gleevec was little stronger and Tasigna a
little weaker than we had anticipated in Q4. Just looking to understand whether there were any
unusual items within the mix there, any rebate reversals or anything else to be aware of. Thank
you.
A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `
Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, thank you, Kerry, for the questions. So first, the GSK milestone is a $450 million milestone
and anything – any gain or loss above $25 million of one-timer is core adjusted. So that was one
of the reasons why OpInc was growing ahead of core OpInc. The gain that we recorded on that
milestone was net of what we had already on the books as a contingent receivable, so it was in
the $340 million range, but again, core adjusted.
A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `
Adjusted out?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Adjusted out, yes. And the disposal gains, now overall, as I said, some (01:17:34) small tail-end
strategic – non-strategic assets. So as we have sometimes financial impairments or legal
settlements on the negative side, also when we have small positives, we don't core adjust to not
make it complicated, so above $25 million we do core adjust. And when you compare year-over-
year, it's a $25 million basic gain, which is 5 points of the core operating and growth of Sandoz.
When you look at the year – by the way, I also asked to look at the core operating income for the
other income/expense for the company, there's no change on the full year basis, also quarter
four over quarter four there's nothing. We had some small divestment gains, which we did core
adjust, and some small negatives, which we didn't core adjust on a corporate level.
A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `
And Bruno?
A - `Bruno Strigini, Chief Executive Officer `
So on Tasigna, we continue to see some good growth with high single-digit growth. We launched
the – we updated rather our label both in Europe and the U.S. with TFR indication, and we don't
see a change in the dynamics between Tasigna and Gleevec.
A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Leerink Partners LLC from Leerink. Please go ahead.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Leerink Partners LLC `Thanks very much for the question. So, really, the question is around immuno-oncology and some
of the progress that we're seeing there, as well as the research portfolio advances in lung cancer.
Vas, can you just give us a general sense of what you've learned about the mechanism of action
for ACZ that has the company moving forward so aggressively with a costly program there? I
have to assume that you're learning quite a bit about the mechanism of action to drive that
forward, so just love to know when we might learn more about that.
Second, there are three programs that are listed on one of your slides that's advancing into
different settings, from Phase I to Phase II, LAG with triple negative breast cancer, the MET
program with the PD-1 combination in lung, and then your adenosine receptor product as well. I
guess, what I'm trying to understand is when I look at value creation, at least investor-related
value creation, there's probably a limited number of assets that have gained significantly, one in
particular being a PEGylated IL-2 that has gained a lot of investor attention. Your company knows
IL-2 very well, knows IO well. Can you just help us understand how we should think about perhaps
those data relative to the kind of metrics that are bringing you forward into Phase II? Thanks so
much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Medical Officer & Global Head Drug Development `
Yeah, so first is general perspectives on IO. I think when you take a step back, you see that the
only agents we have seen with significant efficacy in getting towards patients are the CAR-T
therapies, anti-PD-1 and anti-CTLA-4. Across a broad spectrum of other agents, a lot of activity,
historic levels of activity, over 1,000 trials, but in terms of actual hard data that suggest that
there's going to be a significant breakthrough is still limited. And so I think that is the overall
context that we have to take when looking at IO. So we hold a very high bar when we look at all
these programs. We don't feel like we want to rush in and just chase small signals. We're really
looking for something compelling before we take it into later stages of development.
So to take the questions in turn, with canakinumab, what we have been able to do, in addition to
looking at preclinical work that is quite extensive and is part of the reason both FDA and EMA felt
comfortable with us going forward, we have been circulating tumor DNA work on the patients
who had cancer in the course of the cancer study, so understand better their profile, what was
their potential stage of disease, how did the drug act on those patients. So it's based on that
understanding we're moving forward in the adjuvant study and in the second-line, where we feel
clear on our path forward. In the first-line, we're going to have to carefully think about what's the
best study design in light of the KEYTRUDA recent data, and that's something we're reflecting
on. So I think we'll keep you updated as we think through the first-line trial design.
Now when you think about the second generation IO programs, the three you mentioned, we
have seen evidence, early evidence of efficacy in the clinic, which is why we take those into later
phases. When we look at data such as the PEGylated IL-2, as well as the IDA, which is, of course,
out there, we're very interested to see again with control arm data when there is a PD-1 mono
arm, is there an effect? What is the incremental effect of the added agent, and that's something
we have to just all carefully look at. The agents we've taken forward here, we've tried to be
rigorous about trying to look at, is this PD-1 alone or is this really a combination effect? Of course,
we can't answer definitively from small studies, but that's in the back of my mind as I look at all
these programs, given the variability in the patient profile, the variabilities in the biomarker
profiles. Without good control arms, it's always difficult to really ascertain what is the additive
benefit of the new medicine.
A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `Operator
The last question is from the line of Marietta Miemietz from Primavenue. Please go ahead.
Q - `Marietta E. Miemietz, Analyst, Primavenue Advisory Services Ltd. `
Hi. Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my questions. I have one clinical question on your EGFR
blocker, nazartinib. Can you share the design of the Phase III trial with us that will be the basis of
your 2020 submission in lung cancer? And maybe speak about positioning more broadly. I haven't
actually been able to find any Phase III trial on ClinicalTrials, and it looks like you're still playing
around with all sorts of different combos. So I wasn't quite sure what to make of your pipeline
chart there.
And then a commercial question on Kymriah. In the press release you spoke about the progress
you are making with the treatment centers. Can you just give us a little more color on the
characteristics of the centers that do and don't get certified, i.e., what are the triggers for getting
certified or what are the reasons for holding off on certification?
And is there actually much overlap between the centers that get certified for Kymriah and those
that get certified for Yescarta, on the grounds that once you have the expertise and infrastructure
in place, you may as well go for both, or is it just more economical for the centers to just go for
one and operate on the assumption that sooner or later both drugs will be licensed for similar
indications?
And then finally, I just wanted to clarify with Harry on the core tax rate. The one-off effects that
you mentioned in your press release that affected the reported tax rate, have they also been
included in your core tax rate? And if so, what would the core tax rate have been in 2017 without
these?
And that brings me onto the core tax rate for 2018. I'm actually very surprised to hear it may go
up. On my math, the U.S. tax reform could give you a boost of 5 percentage points or so at the
group level, and I appreciate some of that may not materialize and you have incomplete visibility.
But your guidance really suggests a massive increase in the underlying tax rate, even though it
doesn't seem that the shift of your product mix to high tax jurisdictions is more pronounced this
year than in the past.
So you're just being conservative and don't want to guide for, let's say, a low teens rate until the
dust settles on U.S. reform? Or is your base case really that mix effects largely wipe out the
benefit from U.S. reform? And if so, should we expect your tax rate to keep on creeping up over
the coming years and ultimately move into, let's say, the 20s? Thank you very much.
A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, let's start with tax, because that's a big question. Go ahead, Harry.
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thank you very much, Marietta. So, first of all, we have one adjustment, I think you referred
maybe to that, because of U.S. tax rate, where we had to assess our deferred tax assets and
liabilities, so that's a $61 million tax expense, very much lower than some of the other U.S.-based
companies, who have billions, because we have very different structure, IP and headquarter in
Switzerland, very limited – basically earnings not repatriated, so all of that very limited, and that is
not in the core tax rate because of one-off.And in terms of our – I don't want to quantify what we think as the range of potential U.S. tax
benefit. It's certainly not up to the number you mentioned. It's a smaller benefit that we see. But,
as I mentioned, many details have to be first clarified with the IRS before we can be here more
specific. And then on – that's why we guide to either it's in line with what we have or 16%. And
over the years, I see a range overall between 15% and 17%. The tax, it's very hard to predict, but I
don't see that it would go outside of that range.
A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `
Bruno, on Kymriah?
A - `Bruno Strigini, Chief Executive Officer `
So 33 centers have been REMs certified and about 25 of them are fully operational, fully
operational means that there is a contractor in place. And we're very pleased with the launch. Our
plan was, given the small population in pediatric ALL to have 30 centers, and we are there or
thereabout today.
In terms of certification, it's very product specific, and therefore, we are going for certification of
the sites for our products, while the competition has to do exactly the same. Now, I can't
comment on what the centers – each and every centers will do in terms of certifying different
products, or just one.
A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `
And overlap, are you seeing a high level of overlap?
A - `Bruno Strigini, Chief Executive Officer `
Not really, no.
A - `Joseph Jimenez, Chief Executive Officer `
Okay.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Medical Officer & Global Head Drug Development `
And then finally on the easier part, we have a third-generation EGFRs. I think many of you know,
the EGFR landscape has been shifting now, given some of the recent challenges for some of the
players in the space. Our core goal in pursuing a third-generation EGFR is either in combination
with INC280 or cMET inhibitor, which is one of the primary resistance mechanisms to third-
generation TKI. So the EGFR study will get posted in due course, but I think our overall strategy is
to assess can we get differential efficacy with the combination with INC280.
Q - `Marietta E. Miemietz, Analyst, Primavenue Advisory Services Ltd. `
Thank you very much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Medical Officer & Global Head Drug Development `
Oh, so thank you all very much for joining the call. A big thank you to Joe. This is Joe's last
conference call. We're grateful for all that he's done for the company and wish him well in all his
future endeavors. I look forward to speaking to you at our next quarterly call and continuing the
dialogue on how we drive Novartis into the future. So thanks very much.Operator
Thank you for joining today's conference. You may now replace your handsets.