Y 2019 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning, and good afternoon, and welcome to the Novartis Q4 and Full Year 2019 Results
Release Conference Call and Live Audio Webcast. Please note that during the presentation, all
participants will be in listen-only mode and the conference is being recorded. (Operator
Instructions) A recording of the conference call, including the Q&A session, will be available on our
website shortly after the call ends. (Operator Instructions)
With that, I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. `Samir Shah, Global Head of Investor Relations, Global Head of Investor
Relations. Please go ahead, sir.
`Samir Shah, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Hello, and welcome everybody. Thank you for participating in our full-year and quarter four 2019
investor call.
Before I start, I'll read you the Safe Harbor statement. The information presented today contains
forward-looking statements that involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and otherfactors. These may cause actual results to be materially different from any future results,
performance or achievements expressed or implied by such statements. Please refer to the
Company's Form 20-F on file with the US Securities and Exchange Commission, for a description
of some of these factors.
If you then turn to Slide 3 in our investor presentation, you will see the list of participants. So in the
room we have Vas Narasimhan, the Chief Executive Officer; `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer, the CFO; Marie-France
Tschudin, the President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals; `Susanne Schaffert, President of Novartis Oncology, President of Novartis
Oncology; `John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and Chief Medical Officer, Head of Global Drug Development and the CMO; `Richard Saynor, Chief Executive Officer of Sandoz, he is the
CEO of Sandoz; and Shannon Klinger, the Group General Counsel.
I'm going to hand across to Vas just in a minute or two, but just for your information when we go
to the Q&A session at the end of the formal presentation, we're going to limit each question or
questioner just to two questions at maximum.
With that, I'll hand across to Vas.
`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thank you, Samir, and thank you all for joining today's full year results conference call. So if
we move to Slide 5, as you saw in 2019, we really delivered outstanding performance across the
Company. And I think the big reason for that is, we've had a clear strategy and we're executing
against that strategy. Clearly, we want to be a focused medicines Company powered by
advanced therapy platforms and data science, we're focusing the Company and we're delivering
against each of our five priorities, which I'll take in turn over the course of this presentation.
So going to Slide 6, when you look at the last two years, we have executed now over $70 billion
of transactions, both to focus the Company and build up our presence in strategic areas,
including building a presence in cell and gene therapies and radioligand therapy now with
Inclisiran presence in RNA therapeutics. Altogether, a broad-based medicines portfolio, which we
believe is the largest medicines Company purely focused on the discovery and broad access to
medicines in the world.
We also continue to execute our M&A strategy to build our deeper therapeutic expertise and
therapeutic depth in areas like ophthalmology and cardiovascular disease. So we feel good about
this dynamic and look forward to continuing a strategy of bolt-on M&A for the years to come
depending on the quality of the assets we identify.
Moving to Slide 7. When you look at innovation, one of our key pillars, I think we demonstrated this
year that we are on the right track and really have developed the depth of a pipeline that can
enable us to grow in the long-term. When you think about the scale of the portfolio that we
demonstrated in our R&D Day, we have scale and depth across all of our key therapeutic areas
from Phase 1 to Phase 3. When you look at the replacement power of our pipeline, when we look
at the data from the Evaluate Pharma, we see a profile where we are lead the industry and
replacement power between 2019 and 2024. And we continue to focus on building a deeper
pipeline in advanced therapy, 16 programs now in clinical development, as well as a focus on first-
in-class and first in indication with 90% now of the portfolio with that profile.
Then moving to Slide 8, 2019 was truly a breakthrough year for that innovation, with five NME
approvals, which we believe is a record for a Company in the industry, at least in recent years, six
if you include, one of our Tropical medicine approvals. 30 Major submissions around the world
and 30 clinical data readouts. While 2019 was the year we showed that we have the depth and
breadth of a portfolio that can grow for the long-term, so very pleased with that. And we'll gothrough in a little more detail later on in the call how we're performing on some of these
launches.
Now moving to Slide 9, when you look at catalysts for 2020, another full year of catalysts, major
approvals including the expected approval of ofatumumab which we filed in December and used
a priority review voucher. We also, of course, have the planned filing shortly of Entresto and half
HFpEF. The file -- the planned approval of hopefully QVM/QMF in asthma, Capmatinib in lung
cancer, Cosentyx non-radiographic axial SpA, where we also used a priority review voucher and
inclisiran, where we've now filed in both the US and the EU both with expected action dates in
over the course of 2020.
Also, a number of major readouts across the portfolio, highlights include the Lu-PSMA, the
radioligand therapy asset in prostate cancer, as well as a number of others, which you can see
here on the slide. And then as we tried to highlight to you in the R&D Day a number of Phase 3
starts, our mid-stage pipeline now is rapidly advancing and we'll look forward to giving you
updates on how that portfolio evolves over the course of the year.
So moving to Slide 10, we also have a big focus on China as -- I think you're seeing across the
sector. We would like to highlight a few points when you look at our profile in China. We had 13
NME approvals over the past five years with 22 NRDL listing since 2017, showing we're really
pivoting to a much more innovative portfolio across our China business.
When you look forward we expect now to have 50 NDA approvals between 2020 and 2024.
That's a doubling of the rate we've had over recent years, and our goal is to deliver greater than
90% of our 2024 and beyond China submissions simultaneously with global submissions.
We expect to have a profile in China. Our total sales in China are in the range of $2.2 billion and
our aspiration is to double that business over the coming five years. So a big focus on China, and I
look forward to keeping you up to date on that profile as the year progresses.
So moving to Slide 11. Moving to operational excellence. We delivered a strong performance in
2019 as you saw from the results release. Harry will go through these numbers in a bit more
detail, but some of the highlights I think, strong sales growth with 9% sales growth in constant
currencies. We're delivering on the margin expansion with 1.8% margin expansion in IM, and I'll talk
a little bit more about that on the next slide. I think we're delivering as well a strong shareholder
return profile, when you look at the one-year TSR 22.3% we both -- also when you look at the
two-year, three-year TSRs as well, we are delivering as well nice returns for our shareholders, and
we of course appreciate your confidence in Novartis.
Now, moving to Slide 12 to go a little bit deeper on the operational performance. When you look
at our growth drivers, strong performance across the growth drivers, Cosentyx and Entresto
growing well, Marie-France will go into that in a bit more detail. Zolgensma, I'll cover in a moment.
And then as well across the oncology portfolio, Lutathera, Kisqali -- Kisqali and really now picking
up momentum, Susanne will tell you a bit more about that.
So when you look across that -- the left hand side of this slide, you see a broad set of assets that
are continuing to grow well in market, and you were a Company with 15 blockbusters in our in-line
portfolio and that gives us that diversity and strength to keep growing in the long-term.
When you look at growth drivers as a percent of recent launches, we're now up to 35% exiting
2019, and we expect that number to continue to grow over the coming years.So moving to Slide 13, when you look at the profile of the Company for the next three years, 15
ongoing or upcoming major launches. This will be a huge focus for us in 2020 driving the 2019
launches, which are already in progress and now really focusing on preparing for the 2020 and
2021 launches, and you'll hear more about that from my colleagues later on in the call.
So moving to Slide 14, I wanted to say a word on Zolgensma performance in 2019. We had a
strong launch, full year sales was at $361 million. So very good performance. When you look at the
patients treated commercially, we're roughly at a rate of about 100 patients per quarter, -- for Q3
end, 200 now at the year-end, we would expect in the US to be largely in that -- at that rate of
about [ph] 100 patients a quarter until we have approval in Europe to have the next inflection
point, and then eventually, the intrathecal approval as well, which I'll speak to in a moment.
Commercial lives were up to now 97% coverage, Medicaid lives right over 50% coverage,
newborn screening continues to tick up, and we've continued heavily -- to be heavily focused on
driving newborn screening, and importantly, we have 99% of patients approved now for
reimbursement at their on-label for Zolgensma.
Now some of the next steps for the product, the intrathecal formulation clinical hold, we are
working on a submission to FDA for a data package to hopefully resolve the clinical hold, then
continue the regulatory discussions, and we continue to hope to file the intrathecal formulation
this year. CHMP positive opinion we anticipate in Q1 of this year. With respect to Japan, we
anticipate an approval in the first half of this year and I would say conversations, both in the
Europe and Japan are going very well.
And then we also anticipate decisions in other markets around the world, including Switzerland,
Canada, Australia, Brazil and as well as number of countries in the Middle East. These will be
additional areas of potential future growth for the medicine. So Zolgensma is delivering on the
promise of bringing a transformational gene therapy to children. And we look forward to
continuing to progress expanding its application in more patient populations, in more
geographies in the year to come.
So moving to Slide 15, on the margins, we've guided the last time we spoke about this -- Q4 of
last year that we expect to have reach to mid 30s in the near term and you can see us already
getting close to that with 33.5% exiting 2019, and the mid to high-30s in the medium term.
One important thing to note about our margin guidance is we would expect to achieve these
margins independent of when potential Gilenya LOE occurs. And that's really driven by a
combination of strong sales momentum of our growth drivers, productivity programs, which I'll
talk about in a moment, as well as excellent resource allocation from our older brands to newer
launches. And with that, we're able to offset generic erosions as well as any launch investments
we need for upcoming launches including the newly acquired inclisiran asset.
So moving to Slide 16, I just wanted to say a word about the transformation we're advancing in
NTO and NBS. With respect to manufacturing, we're well on our way of our goal of consolidated
footprint that's much more focused on high-end technologies. We also are advancing our efforts
in procurement and manufacturing are really reducing the excess inventories that we're holding
and also deploying data & digital much more aggressively across the manufacturing network.
In NBS, we are on track now with respect to our movement of roles to our global service centers,
we've been able to take a number of actions to consolidate our footprint as well as consolidate
our overall real estate operations. We have a new Chief Procurement Officer, who has now been
enrolled for a number of months already optimizing our top 100 suppliers.So all of this taken together is enabling us to be on track to deliver our goal of $2 billion of savings
by the end of 2020. And we expect these efforts to deliver an additional $1.5 billion of savings in
the medium term to contribute to that margin expansion I showed you on the earlier slide.
Then moving to Slide 17, Sandoz also had a great 2019, they delivered accretive growth, you saw
2% global sales; 7% ex-US; 16% in biopharmaceuticals. Importantly, excellent leverage on the P&L
with 10% core operating income growth.
This is in large part due to the -- focusing on our key strategy that Richard and his team have put
in place, focusing on a core generics business, trying to be a great generics Company both in oral
solid and injectables and biosimilars, focusing on key geographies where we think we can build
strong long-term positions. We have the number one position in the EU, and in Japan, we closed
the -- in the process of closing the Aspen acquisition and are confident we can continue to build
our business in Japan. And in the US, we're stabilizing the business, we expect a closure of the
transaction with Aurobindo in Q1 of this year, which will allow us then to focus on our hospital and
biosimilars businesses.
We're on track as well to have a autonomous Sandoz within Novartis for the start of 2021, focused
very much in the manufacturing organization. And we continue to advance our broad portfolio of
biosimilars, so very pleased with the progress we're making in Sandoz.
If you go to the next slide. Now, I just wanted to touch on our data & digital transformation culture
and ESG. Across all of the key pillars of our digital transformation, we are now beginning to really
see this take hold at the Company. I think it's fundamentally transforming how we operate, we're
scaling 12 digital what we called lighthouse projects, which are enabling us to transform ourselves,
whether it's in our development trial operations, manufacturing and our salesforce. The idea is
that we have AI and data science powering our decision making, wherever relevant at the
Company.
We're making Novartis digital. We have over 1,500 associates now in digital and data science at
the Company. We also are getting broad interest in learning programs on digital at Novartis.
We're working to become a key partner in the startup tech ecosystem. We have biomes, which
we have launched in a number of cities around the world, which allow start-ups to work closely
with Novartis. And lastly, we are working on bold moves. We've made a bold of collaboration with
Microsoft on an AI innovation lab in R&D. We're partnering with Amazon Web Services to
transform our technical operations as well as a procurement operation and working in China with
Tencent in areas like heart failure.
I expected in the coming years, you will see the tangible impact of these efforts on both our top
and bottom line.
Now if we move to the next slide. Also on culture change, we continue to believe culture will be
the key driver of our long-term performance truly creating an inspired, curious and unbossed
organization. There is a broad range of initiatives, which you see here on the slide. I won't go
through all of them, but I think it just to give you a sense that we take this very seriously at the
Executive Committee level, we are working diligently to drive this through the organization,
whether it's getting our people more connected with the purpose, whether it's enabling learning
and growth across the Company, and whether it's developing leaders, who are more self-aware
and able to lead in an powered unbossed way. We are quite committed to this and we believe in
the long run for our long run investors that will truly pay off.On the next slide. If you now turn to our efforts to build trust with society, many of you attended
our ESG Investor Day last fall. We continue to progress against our aspirations. In ethical
standards, we rolled out new program to really tackle third-party risk management at scale. In
Pricing & Access, we've outlined a new approach in sub-Saharan Africa, where -- our entire sub-
Saharan Africa business is now under a single entity, whose goal is to maximize access without
having to focus on profits and really just say how can we build healthcare systems and access in
Africa.
In Global Health, we are pioneering work in sickle cell disease, in Ghana and across sub-Saharan
Africa to really tackle for the first time a chronic genetic disease at scale in the region. And on
Corporate Citizenship, we have now reached 44% women in management and our goal
continues to be to get to 50% and we're on track to do so.
So moving to Slide 21. I wanted to highlight that with our ESG approach, we are not just setting
ambitious targets for the long run, but we're also embedding this into our operations. We have a
set of ESG targets for 2020. We will -- these are embedded in my scorecards for 2020 as well as
the executive team, we will transparently report on them, so really ramp -- report on our progress
in each of these areas against our longer-term goals.
They're tracked at a Trust & Reputation Committee that I'd share, linked to this compensation
and transparently disclosed.
And if you go to the next slide. One thing I want to highlight is, you can find a tremendous amount
of detail at the Novartis in Society report. We also have published a dynamic index, which goes
through all of the key ESG metrics, link them to where you can find the information you need for
Novartis. This is both to enable the ESG rating agencies as well as your own ESG groups to be
able to find the information they need about the Company and if you can't find it, please let us
know.
When you look at some of the things we're committed to, they include reducing the launch time
lag for innovative medicines to less than three months for low-and middle-income countries
versus what we see in US and Europe. We've committed to get to carbon neutrality in our own
operations by 2025 as well as tackle our third party Scope 3 carbon emissions, delivering on the
UN Equal Pay for Equal Work and gender equity goals.As I said, addressing major areas in global
health.
So a very -- a concerted effort, one we deeply believe in. I am personally committed to and we
hope to show progress over the course of the year.
So moving to the next slide. Just want to close before handing it to Marie-France that we believe
that in total, when you look at the portfolio of Novartis, we are well positioned for sustained long-
term growth. We have a strong set of in-market growth drivers. We have a great set of 15
ongoing or upcoming major launches, a broad set of novel assets that we highlighted in our R&D
Day as well as a range of new indications for products like Cosentyx, Beovu, Piqray, amongst
others. We believe this will sustain our growth over the medium to long term, and we'll look
forward to delivering these important medicines for the world over the coming years.
So with that, I will hand it over to Marie-France.
`Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
So good afternoon to all of you. I'll start with Slide 25. So 2019 was a very strong year for
pharmaceuticals with 12% growth. Our key drove growth drivers, Cosentyx and Entresto grew28% and 71%, respectively. We also laid the foundation for our next phase of growth. We're off to
a great start with Beovu in the US, we're accelerating Mayzent and Xiidra, and we've added
inclisiran to the portfolio.
Next slide. Cosentyx had a fantastic year with strong growth through multiple competitor entries.
The underlying growth is very strong and the demand is strong. Actually in the US, we even
accelerated versus prior year, and we're outperforming the market both in dermatology and
rheumatology. With a strong first-line access, we secured and continued news flow for example,
our MAXIMISE and PREVENT trials, we really expect to maintain this momentum in 2020 and are
confident for the future. In fact, we're increasing our guidance to beyond $5 billion.
Next slide. Entresto also saw impressive growth in 2019, (Technical difficulty) at an all-time high,
and I'm very pleased with the strong execution in the market. We feel that we have all of the
components to sustain this momentum. We've got a strong evidence base for in hospital
initiation, but also ambulatory treatment. We see increasing guideline support for Entresto as a
first choice treatment, and of course in 2020, we have very nice expansion opportunities in new
markets, particularly in China and Japan.
Slide 27, or 28, sorry, excuse me. In Beovu, we're very pleased with the US launch, particularly the
excellent customer feedback. We've seen very strong uptake from retina specialists and with the
permanent J-Code, there is strong confidence for reimbursement. The feedback has been
outstanding. What we hear the most is that physicians are incredibly impressed with Beovu's
drying properties and with the efficacy. We're also looking forward to an EC approval later this
quarter and Q2 approval in Japan, and we expect to Beovu to become a major player across the
globe.
Slide 29. Ofatumumab, we are very, very excited about this opportunity, and we're getting focus
to bring this product as quickly as possible to patients. We filed both in the US and the EU, and I
just want to spend a moment on this, because there is a real shift happening in the marketplace
about how physicians treat MS. And this leads us to believe that we have a truly unique product
profile with ofatumumab. What physicians tell us is that they increasingly believe that it is best to
use the most efficacious therapy upfront. And if you think about ofatumumab, we offer
unsurpassed efficacy of B-cell depletion. If you look at the chart on the left, which we presented
at our R&D Day, you will see that the Confirmed Disability Worsening data is very impressive. If
you combine that with a very favorable safety profile and easy mode of administration, we'll have
an autoinjector at launch, we were really proposing a winnings first line value proposition. So our
objective this year is to really focus on making sure that we can provide broad access to as many
neurologists as possible, and of course, to as many patients as possible.
Slide 30. We're also very excited about our opportunity with inclisiran, because of profile including
this administration twice a year really lends itself to significantly impacting cardiovascular mortality
in a very broad patient population. We've begun the integration, which we will complete by March.
And we've also filed in both the US and in the EU. We are ongoing with our bridging studies in
Japan and China.
So the key focus for this year is to provide broad and affordable access and start engaging with
payers in multiple different countries. So all in all, if we move to the last slide, we have a very clear
strategy for 2020. We're going to continue the momentum with Cosentyx and Entresto with a
strong focus on preparing our launches. So, scaling Beovu, launching ofatumumab and inclisiran,
and the biggest shift that you will see is that we firmly have our eyes on the future. We have a
number of fantastic assets, and they are only a few years away. We're investing earlier in our
launches and we're making sure that we're prepared well ahead of time.I'm really confident in the teams that we have across the globe, and I just want to thank them for
their outstanding work in 2019.
I'd like to pass onto Susanna.
`Susanne Schaffert, President of Novartis Oncology `
Thank you, Marie-France, and good morning, good afternoon everybody. So let's move to Slide
33. Also for oncology, we had a very good year. We reached sales of $14.8 billion and delivered
growth of 10%, so I'm really proud of what the oncology team has achieved. The growth was
mainly driven by the strong uptake of our recently launched products, including Lutathera,
Kymriah, Kisqali and Piqray, but we also saw continued very strong momentum from our growth
drivers, Jakavi, Promacta/Revolade and Mekinist Tafinlar. We aggressively shifted investments to
our growth drivers to our launches and pre-launches to really invest early and also approved an
investment case for China. And the growth really could more than compensate for generic impact
we saw in 2019, mainly from Afinitor and Sandostatin LAR in Europe and Exjade/Jadenu in the US.
So moving to Slide 34, one of the key growth areas for us was our breast cancer portfolio. We
have launched Piqray in June 2019. This is a first-in-class PIK3CA inhibitor indicated for 40% of HR
positive HER2 negative metastatic breast cancer patients with a PIK3CA mutation, and these
patients usually have a very poor prognosis, so very high medical need.
The product had a very strong start delivering $118 million of sales in 2019. And we're very
pleased that testing rate was up to 25% at year-end, starting at 5%, probably in the beginning of
the year. We have launched a product with QIAGEN test and now also have approval for the
Foundation Medicines tissue test and expect the plasma test of Foundation Medicines to be
approved by Q2 2020.
In addition, we have launched a very broad development program in five new indications called
the EPIK program with the potential to serve additional 100,000 patients with Piqray.
Also Kisqali had a very great year, reaching $418 million of sales. Just to remind you, Kisqali is the
only CDK 4/6 that consistently demonstrated superior overall survival in two pivotal Phase 3 trials.
We saw clear early signs of accelerated growth both in the US and very, very strong, continued
growth ex-US. So very pleased with the performance.
We are also rapidly enrolling in our NATALEE trial. This is a trial in high and intermediate adjuvant
breast cancer. NATALEE has a different design than the other ongoing trials in adjuvant setting
with three years treatment and could potentially get registration as early as 2022 based on a
positive pre-planned interim analysis.
So moving to Slide 37, the second launch we had in 2019 was Adakveo. The only approved
product for the reduction of frequency of vaso-occlusive crisis or VOCs in sickle cell disease. In
the US, there are more than 54,000 patients suffering from sickle cell disease and having more
than one VOC per year, and therefore, there is a huge medical need. We have made a
commercial product available two days after approval, and we are now actively engaging with
payers working through reimbursement. We saw already initial orders from community centers.
We have applied a permanent J CODE that we expect in July 2020 and usually it takes about 18
months to achieve reimbursement across the country, but we are very pleased that already six
states published their guidelines for Adakveo.
So moving to the next slide, giving an outlook on 2020. We will continue to maximize our growth
drivers, we expect continued growth from Kisqali, we plan to tap into the potential of earlyalliance with Lutathera, and we expect continued growth in regulated Revolade/Promacta from
ITP and also first-line SAA in the US and Japan.
We are committed to deliver on our launches, we will further expand Piqray in the US and prepare
for the launch in Europe. And we hope to continue strong on Adakveo expanding to larger
accounts in the US and drive further capacity increase for Kymriah to meet the strong demand in
pediatric ALL and DLBCL.
Last but not least, we will prepare for our next big bets. Capmatinib, with the potential to be the
first to market c-MET inhibitor, expecting the data readout of our PD-L1 Spartalizumab in
combination with Mekinist and Tafinlar preparing our commercial organization for the readout of
Lutetium-PSMA later this year and also focus medical education on canakinumab to establish the
importance of inhibition of tumor-promoting inflammation.
So with that, I will hand over to Harry.
`Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thank you, Susanna. Good morning, good afternoon, everybody. My comments refer to the
results of our continuing operations and growth rates are in constant currencies unless I would
note otherwise. So moving to the next slide.
As Vas said, 2019 has been exceptional year overall for the results of the Company and the
financial results. On Slide 38, we compare our actual results with our latest guidance. As you
know, we revised guidance upward throughout the year and delivered as expected. Full-year
sales growth was 9% and core operating income growth 17%.
Slide 39 shows the summary of our quarter four and full year performance. Basically, quarter four
follow the same pattern as each quarter of 2019 and the full year. Focusing on the full year, the
sales increased high single-digit driving accretive double-digit core operating income and core
EPS growth of 17% each. This resulted in also in the strong free cash flow of $12.9 billion, up 15% in
US dollars versus prior year.
The net income decline you see here is entirely due to the $5.7 billion OTC joint venture one-time
net gain that we recorded in 2018 when we divested our stake to GSK.
Now you will recall that one of our key financial priorities is to increase free cash flow, and we
have delivered another strong result in 2019.
On Slide 40, the free cash flow of 2019 is compared with 2018, and our free cash flow increase
was mainly driven by operating income adjusted for non-cash items. As you can see, we had a
couple of large one-time items, and which we of course also reported, and they are offsetting
each other, some divestment gains, but in also 2018, when we still had the OTC joint venture and
other milestone from the prior portfolio deals. And of course, we will continue to place a strong
focus on cash flow management also going forward.
Next slide. As you can see on Slide 41, we are proposing the 23rd consecutive dividend increase
to CHF2.95 per share. This is an increase of 3.5% and a dividend yield remains above 3%. It's of
course also fully in line with our dividend policy of increasing our dividends every year in Swiss
francs.
On Slide 42, you see our strong core margin improvement in quarter four and the full year. Given
the excellent sales execution and productivity focus, core margin grew in each quarter and the full
year for both divisions.Full year continuing operations margin improved by 1.9% points, and in Innovative Medicines, sales
grew 11%, driving 18% core operating income growth and enabling the margin to improve to
33.5%, up just 1.8% point versus prior year. At the same time, we have been increasing
investments to support our many launches and pre-launches. With this result, we are clearly on
track to deliver our medium term core margin guidance of mid to high 30s for Innovative
Medicines.
Sandoz had a solid year returning to growth, with sales growing 2%. Core operating income grew
much stronger than sales, driven by the sales growth, but also continued gross margin
improvements and the ongoing business transformation. The Sandoz core margin for 2019 was
21.5%, up 1.5% points versus prior year.
Now moving to the 2020 full-year guidance on Slide 43. In short, we anticipate the strong
business momentum of 2019 to continue in 2020. For the focused medicines Company, we
expect sales growth in the range of mid to high single digits. By division, Innovative Medicines
sales are expected to grow mid to high-single digits, and Sandoz sales are expected to grow low
single-digit.
Once again, we expect accretive growth and margin improvement in 2020. Core operating
income is expected to grow ahead of sales in the high-single to low double-digit range. Our
guidance includes the forecast and assumption, as you can see at the bottom of the slide that no
Key assumption: Guidance above includes the forecast assumption that no Gilenya or Sandostatin
LAR generics would enter in 2020 in the US. Further, the guidance excludes the Sandoz US oral
solids and derm portfolio, which we are in the process of divesting in both years in 2020 and
2019. And we expect to close the sale to Aurobindo in quarter one.
Let me add a word on quarterly core op income -- core operating income dynamics in 2020. We
do expect that quarter one will be at the upper end of the full-year guidance. This is mainly two
drivers. First, the generics, we were earlier also discussing the impacts are expected to be lower
in quarter one, as we model a ramp up throughout the year. So the overall generic burn will be a
bit higher than 2019, but ramping up as we model it. And second in quarter one, we are not yet
lapping the Zolgensma launch. You may recall, last year we got media approval and also not the
mid-year Xiidra acquisition of last year.
On Slide 44, just I would like to add some perspective on other key elements of our expected
bottom line performance beyond core operating income. We expect core net financial expenses
to increase by around $0.2 billion, reflecting the financing cost of our acquisition of The Medicines
Company. Core taxes are expected to be broadly in line with 2019, which is in the range of 16%.
And with that, I'll hand it back to Vas.
`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Harry. So just to close, if we move to Slide 6. Just to reiterate, again, a strong
performance -- really an exceptional performance in 2019, a big thank you to the entire Novartis
organization for a truly outstanding year, delivering on our long-term strategy and our operational
performance.
In closing, with Slide 47, again, just to highlight the portfolio and the medicines we create are the
strength of this Company, we believe we have the right profile to deliver growth for the long-
term, and we look forward to consistently demonstrating that in 2020.
So with that, we can open the lines for questions and answers. Thank you.Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen from Cowen. Please
go ahead, your line is now open.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen `
Thank you. I have a couple of questions. First on Zolgensma. Vas, you mentioned that
conversations are going well in the EU and Japan. But I don't think you stated the tone around the
US discussions. I think back to `John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and Chief Medical Officer's comments at the R&D meeting last month, which also
did not offer optimism. It seems that -- things are tough with FDA on the IT study. And I'm just
wondering, if you would say that, that's not the case.
And then secondly on Xiidra, Novartis' rationale for the acquisition was that its marketing force
would boost sales, but growth has been slow and it didn't get mentioned in the prepared
remarks other than Harry mentioning that you acquired the asset. When should we expect this
inflection in Xiidra? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Steve. So I'll take Zolgensma and then I'll hand it to Marie-France for Xiidra. So I would
not agree with your characterization. I think we have -- had good discussions with the FDA, we're
clear on the information we need to provide both from a preclinical standpoint as well as the
clinical data, which is the most important element of the story in terms of the -- how the patients
are doing from the strong study.
We plan to provide data package to the FDA in the coming weeks, then assuming we adequately
have answered their questions, I would expect, or at least hope that we would get off of clinical
hold. We will then move forward with a pre-BLA proposal for the filing of the strong data for an IT
approval, and we continue to guide to a filing of AVXS-101 IT in 2020.
Now with respect to Xiidra, Marie-France?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
So we've always said that we have to rebuild this brand. So we went through a complete
restructuring, which we've now completed. The product has great potential, as we know the
marketplace is huge, 34 million patients in the US and only 1.6 million of those are currently on a
prescription product for their dry eye disease. We also know that the unique -- the product has a
unique product profile. It's the only one to treat the signs and symptoms. So we are -- through
this restructuring, we return to DTC in Q4. We're going to continue to invest in Q1 and return to
growth certainly by the second half of the year with greater share of voice in DTC strength.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thank you. Marie-France. Next question, operator. Thanks, Steve.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America from Bank of America. Please
go ahead, your line is now open.Q - `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America `
Okay. Thanks for taking my questions. So firstly on Gilenya on the litigation. We see overnight that
you seed on the newly issued 179 pattern we saw some additional language on infection
prevention, I was just wondering, should we view this as any signal that you have any concern that
you might not win the IPR appeal or any lack of confidence in your 405 patent litigation, and how
does seemingly evergreening the patent fit with Novartis' social trust agenda. I think there's
some reputational risk that you seem to be trying to extend the patent life unfairly here.
Secondly on Zolgensma, the timing that you're giving for the intrathecal filing of the 2020 is
obviously somewhat vague. I was just wondering if you could try to tighten that into first half,
second half. And I was wondering, just on your comment earlier about, I think you said 100
patients per quarter through 2020. Why no inflection there without intrathecal or you just fully
penetrated into incident patients and there is no more prevalent patients under two [ph] left?
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Graham. So -- there's two separate things going on right now with respect to
Gilenya, we have the 405 patent, which was held up in the IPR and is currently under an IPR
appeal in the Federal Circuit. Also that 405 patent is being appealed as well in District Court. And
both of those trials are either ongoing or soon to start, and we expect decisions in both trials
over the course of 2020 and we'll of course, keep you all up to date. And we continue to believe
this -- the strength of that patent -- and the strength of their pattern continue to work to defend
that fully.
Separate from that, yesterday, we received a US patent related to the treatment of RMS by
determining Varicella-zoster status and vaccinating in appropriate cases. We actually had filed this
patent close to eight to nine years ago. It's just that the patent was issued only yesterday. And we
immediately then filed infringement lawsuits in the US District Court against all generic companies
that are still currently involved in the dosing regimen patent litigation. So not necessarily all
companies with those companies that have not settled with us on the dosing regimen patent
litigation.
Again, to your comment on evergreening, we don't view this as evergreening, we view this as a
legitimately defending patents that we filed long ago based on insights on how the mechanism
of Gilenya operates in this case with respect to zoster virus in the previous case, with respect to
dose, as the dose is different from transplant medications. I provoke [ph] for the use of the drug
in a transplant setting. So that's the situation. We continue to pursue these various lines and we
will see ultimately how the year unfolds and keep all of you up-to-date as these various lines of
discussion continue.
Now with respect to Zolgensma IT, difficult for me to tighten this any further, I think until we
submit the pre-BLA meeting request. I think it'd be premature to do so. If everything were to go
exactly as we wanted, we could file as early as mid of this year, if the FDA asked us to provide
additional information from the high dose of the strong study, we would probably be towards
more at the end of this year. So it really depends on us getting that feedback from the FDA, and
as soon as we have that feedback, we'll of course provide it back to you.
Now with respect to the dynamics we see in the US, you saw a strong Q3, a strong Q4. Right
now, what we see is continued share gains in the under six month segment, but we also, of
course, have the six to 18 month -- or six to 24 months old are starting to age out of the segment.So I think right now, we're guiding to kind of an offset of our gains in under six months offsetting
the aging out of the six to 24 months.
The next inflection points will first come actually from the European approval, it turns out that for
the SMA market, the ex-US market is larger than the US market. So on European approval, as I
said, we expect CHMP opinion in first quarter. Japanese approval, which we also expect in the
first half and then a range of other country approvals, other sizable market opportunities in the
Middle East as well as in Latin America. Those filings are also -- and we would expect all of those
to be inflection points for the IV under two years as Zolgensma.
And then separate from that, the IT would be a further inflection point once approved.
Q - `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Graham. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi from Citi. Please go ahead,
your line is now open.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi `
Thank you. Couple of questions please. You've indicated that you aren't going to file interest for
preserved ejection fraction heart failure sometime in Q1 with respect to power [ph] lines. Could
you just give us some details on what population you're filing is it modestly which used is it
women? Is it both?
Secondly how much weight, do you really put on the 179 patents, surely a carve out in a skinny
label would seem to circumvent given the widespread prevalence of Varicella vaccination in the
US market. And then finally on the Lutetium-PSMA, is the therapy trial fileable in addition to your
Phase 3 trial broadening the initial approvals for this product in refractory prostate cancer? Thank
you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. So first on the indication for Entresto and preserved ejection fraction heart failure. John?
A - `John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and Chief Medical Officer `
Yeah. Just -- thanks for the question, Andrew. Just in terms of a quick reminder for folks on
PARAGON study, the results came out in the third quarter of the year, where we saw a very
narrow miss with a p-value of 0.059 in terms of patients with preserved ejection fraction. We've
had good discussions with the US FDA and the approach that we would take as a broad indication
given the benefits that we've seen across the population. And we'll have continued dialog with
the regulatory agency on the approach moving forward.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And so then, on the 179 patent, we -- overall, our view is that we have -- we're confident in thepatent relates to the safety of the product. We feel like it is a strong patent and will continue to
vigorously defend our IP rights, particularly against those companies that have not yet settled
overall with respect to Gilenya. Settlement discussions of course are ongoing, and we'll see
where we land over the course of this year. Now on Lu-PSMA. John?
A - `John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and Chief Medical Officer `
Yeah. I didn't ask -- I didn't hear the specific question, could you repeat that. Andrew?
Q - `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi `
Sure. So you have your Phase 3 trial in patients unwilling or unable or failed chemotherapy. The
large Phase 3, the name escapes me later this year, but you also have the therapy Phase 2 trial
versus chemo. My question was whether you could get approval for both indications, therefore,
broadening the initial label at the time of first launch?
A - `John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and Chief Medical Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Andrew. For the VISION Trial, we're actually looking at the later lines and we would
not get both indications. Because the second trial would actually come later. So our intent is
through the VISION trial.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. So we -- I think we expect to see first VISION get that third, fourth line and then move into
earlier lines of therapy as the other readout top, and I don't think we'd have data available to
really enable us to get an even broader population at launch, at least that's our current
expectation.
Very good. Thank you, Andrew. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from line of `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research from Wolfe Research. Please go
ahead, your line is now open.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Thank you. I just wanted to go back to Gilenya again. After Q3 management was felt to be on the
road as being quite bullish that you would extend LOE and not have generic entry for years to
come. And there is a sense now that perhaps you've backed away from that maybe related to
oral arguments recently. So I'm wondering, just to simplify it as giving guidance to the analyst
community. What would be a safe assumption for when we should expect LOE? And second
question is Sandoz, you've previously talked about that I think is being a three-year journey to turn
it around to reevaluate what to do with the division, maybe we're a year into that or slightly less.
And I'm wondering if you can update us on long-term plans for that division is performing. We see
that, but at the same time, it is a drag on growth, especially as the innovative pharma side of the
business picks up and has momentum. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Tim. On Gilenya, unfortunately I can't answer your question, because I think it's difficult for
us to know precisely. What we are confident on is we have a strong set of patents here that
we're vigorously defending, we're giving guidance, so that you can all assume that no genericentrants in 2020. And I think we'll know a lot more over the course of this year as we see the
results of the IPR appeal, our own effort to strengthen the 405 patent with the IPR office, the
District Court litigation that's ongoing, our 179 patent, which has now been granted, and we have
filed infringement lawsuits on it. And then of course, the wildcard with all of that is would
someone attempt to launch at risk in various scenarios as well.
So I think it's difficult I think to give a precise answer, but I think what's really important is that
along with the 2020 guidance, we also are committed to delivering the margin expansion that we
talk about independent of when this happens. So that should give you -- all of you confidence we
believe in the overall growth profile momentum and financial profile of the Company.
Now with respect to Sandoz, yeah, I'm very pleased with where we are in this journey to date. I
think we're on the right track. I think we're committed to the business and continuing to drive the
margins up to the mid 20s, which would put us in the range of our peer set over the coming
years, continuing to strengthen the pipeline and portfolio separating it in the companies that, that
has the ability to compete very successfully.
Richard, you want to just give some comments on where we are on the Sandoz strategy?
A - `Richard Saynor, Chief Executive Officer of Sandoz `
Thank you, Vas. Yeah, I mean, clearly a strong year in 2019. We want to continue that momentum
growing in 2020, and as Vas said, improve the margin journey as well. Also part of that is moving
supply chain more within the Sandoz framework that gives us greater control of our costs and
resource allocation and continuing to build our strength clearly in Europe with the number one
position taking market share, building a very strong and dynamic biologics portfolio. The US now
re-based much more focused in terms of growing on a much stronger injectable and specialty
platform, and then emerging markets closing the Aspen acquisition and integrating that into this
quarter and then continue to build strong dynamic growth.
So I think there's a lot of things that we're focused on that really support that agenda.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. So we'll keep you updated as Sandoz continues on the journey, and of course, if any of our
perspectives change, we'll of course let you know. Thank you, Tim. Next question?
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim from Guggenheim. Please go
ahead, your line is now open.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim `
Thanks for the question. So two questions. Number one, can you just -- can you guys just update
us on the trajectory for Beovu in the market. It looks like we're off to a good start. What we are
hearing from some physicians though is there are some questions being raised about the
reimbursement dynamics in the market and whether or not PRN utilization is something where
they're struggling to get reimbursed if a patient is not getting the kind of benefits that they
hoped early on, I know it's early on in the launch. So just trying to get a better sense of if that may
be due to the J-code and lack of that in the early days or just education that Novartis needs to
do, if the physician base for reimbursement.And the second question is, can you just help us understand the inclisiran agreement with the UK.
I think there's a lot of confusion around this. So just love to know the input with regard to
distribution and really how this agreement is structured and the kind of revenue potential that you
might see just from that type of an indication? And if this is something that Novartis is seeking to
expand into this type of structure, Novartis would expand into other markets internationally, or
even in the US? Thanks.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Seamus. So first on the Beovu overall performance and profile, Marie-France?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Okay. So I'll just say that, overall, we're extremely pleased with our launch of Beovu in the US,
there is actually very strong uptake. We've got 84% of retina specialists that have Beovu in their
fridge, and actually, we got the J-code in record time. So there is a lot of confidence in the
marketplace around the reimbursement and the benefits investigation experience. We're also
supporting physicians and providers and payers with a number of different initiatives. So that this
will flow quite easily.
You have to remember, we've had the permanent J-code since the 1st of January, but so far the
benefits investigation and the re-verifications have gone extremely well. What we're really
excited about though is the feedback. So we get outstanding feedback from physicians regarding
the efficacy and regarding the drying properties of Beovu. So very encouraged, we feel strongly
that there is confidence in the marketplace around not only the clinical experience so far, but also
the experience around reimbursement.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
In respect to inclisiran, the UK agreement, Marie-France?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
So the NHS partnership is made up of three memorandums of understanding. The first one is
really around a population health agreement in secondary prevention to enable broad access in
the UK. The second agreement is around a partnership for a primary prevention trial and that is
something that we would be working not only with the UK, but hopefully other -- with other
countries, obviously with the intention of having a trial beyond just the UK. And here the intent
would be much more to look at those patients who would be at high risk of having an event, but
have not yet had an event.
The third memorandum of understanding is around a collaboration in manufacturing, and this is
really around the optimization to scale capacity. So these are three agreements or intent of
agreements. They are in preliminary phases and we're obviously in conversations with the UK
government around all three.
What is really interesting is this novel approach, and I think that's what we're very excited about,
because it is an opportunity for us to work with health care systems in a very different way. We
know, LDL cholesterol is a huge issue, because of the lack of adherence, and we feel that with
inclisiran twice a year injected at a physician office can really have the potential to increase the
adherence and make a dent in CV disease and CV mortality over time.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `Maybe Seamus just on the modeling side of your question, and if you just think about the
secondary prevention market in the -- or number of patients actually in the UK, there is about 1.8
million in patients in the UK, who would be eligible from a secondary prevention standpoint. The
initial part of this memorandum of understanding which we still have to I think fully get the final
agreements around would enable the treatment of multiple hundreds of thousands of patients.
And then as data becomes more -- from launch I should say. And as data becomes more
available, especially the outcome study in 2024, a potential to further -- further expand that. So
there would be a clear commercial potential right from the start with inclisiran being broadly used
in the UK, can't guide obviously the specific numbers, but we think it's a highly attractive with
respect to that launch. And Marie-France and her team are very actively discussing now with
payers in the US as well as other parties around the world to see can we use similar population-
based agreements to drive significant volume uptake even ahead of the outcome study.
Good. So thank you, Seamus. Next question, operator?
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Weston from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead,
your line is now open.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Thank you very much. The first question Vas, in your introductory comments, you flagged $1.5
billion of incremental efficiency gains, and you had already raised margin guidance to mid to high
30s with the Medicines company deal. So how should we interpret today's message, is it now a
target of even higher 30s, or this new savings program helps achieve the previous goal? Or are
we looking for a large proportion to be reinvested in launches and innovation?
And then two other quick ones, if I can Mitsubishi Tanabe, the Gilenya arbitration. Can you just
update us on timing, please. And when we should expect an outcome? And one for Susanna,
Lutathera, it -- previously, it had been flagged as a blockbuster opportunity, but sales now
seemed to a very much plateaued. What's going to drive the inflection and when should we see
it? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Matthew. On the $1.5 billion, we really see this is as a part of the ongoing journey to
achieve the mid to high 30s margin. And Harry, do you want to add any other details?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, Matthew. Thank you for the question. So basically, we updated where we stand on the prior
$2 billion productivity program that we announced two years ago, which we are completing end
of 2020, and that was of course also supporting our short and mid-term margin guidance.
This is also further supporting our margin expansion toward mid to high 30s. So it's part of the
overall program. Of course, the growth drivers from the sales, from the launches, in-market
growth drivers as well as resource allocation and this ongoing continued efforts mainly and
technical operation, supply chain, but also of MBS and procurement.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `Great. Thank you, Harry. And then on Mitsubishi Tanabe, we don't have any updates from where
we were -- last we're on this -- we're continuing the dialog and we'll of course provide you an
update, if and when we have one. And then with respect to Lutathera, Susanna?
A - `Susanne Schaffert, President of Novartis Oncology `
Yeah. So on Lutathera, actually it is and will be one of the key growth drivers for the oncology
business. And overall, we're very pleased with the performance. We have, however, observed a
slight deceleration in the growth in the US, just remember that still more than 80% of sales are
coming from the US, and that's largely due to the reason that the major net centers that we
focused on in the first round of our commercial efforts have now worked through the existing
prevalent pool of GEP NET patients. So now, we focus on really tapping into earlier lines. We have
expanded our US field force, now really targeting community centers and Tier 2 centers and
should be very -- we are very optimistic actually. We also should see now a more sales coming
from Europe, as we got reimbursement in several key markets like France, Italy and Spain. So
overall, we remain very confident on Lutathera. We still believe this has blockbuster potential. And
as I said, still remain very optimistic about this product.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great, thank you, Susanna. Thank you, Matthew. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Societe Generale from Societe Generale.
Please go ahead, your line is now open.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Good afternoon, everyone. `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Societe Generale from Societe Generale. Two quick questions. First
ofatumumab, could you remind us what are the resources that you will use to push the US launch
in terms of sales force, and will you use medicine or Gilenya sales force as well or do you need to
build new one ahead of the launch? My second question is more big picture regarding a
respiratory following fevipiprant results. What is your strategy in the US -- in the respiratory
notably in the US, would you change your, your view on this therapeutical area? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
So Marie-France on ofatumumab.
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
So on ofatumumab, obviously, we are resourcing to win and we've got a strong focus on the US
also given the fact that we have submitted a PRV. We are looking to work with two separate sales
forces. So one dedicated to ofatumumab and then of course, we have a sales force with Mayzent
and Gilenya. So we will be -- we will be resourcing to win in this marketplace as I said to you
before in the presentation. We firmly believe that we have a very unique value proposition with
ofatumumab with unsurpassed efficacy and with B-cell depletion. We've got an excellent safety
profile, and also the ease-of-administration will -- can really make this product a first-line choice
for not only centers of excellence, but just the general neurologists.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `Great. Thank you. Marie-France. On the respiratory strategy, what I'd say is of course, fevipiprant
was a big setback, but we still have a significant global presence with Xolair, Xolair is a major
medicine for the company, obviously, a leading medicines for the treatment of atopic asthma.
We've had a number of life cycle management opportunities with Xolair both in Japan, the US
and in the EU. So Xolair remains a pillar. Ex-US, we will of course have the inhaled range, which
now will get expanded with the QVM and QMS approval. And then longer term, we have a
pipeline within R&D, within development and research that could address a broad range of more
specialty respiratory areas, including idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, PAH sarcoidosis. We have a
program, a medicine called QBW, which is an oral medicine for COPD, so a full range of assets in
respiratory. So I'd say right now, we're waiting to see how that pipeline matures. And in the
meantime, we focus on Xolair and our inhaled range.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Thank you very much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Florent. Next question.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies from Jefferies. Please go
ahead, your line is now open.
Q - `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies `
Thanks for taking my questions. Just two brief ones, please. Firstly, just I guess Harry on the
corporate cost base. Despite obviously, a lot of the cost cutting going through which will be
completed this year, we're still seeing around a mid single-digit increase in corporate SG&A costs
year-on-year. Can you sort of provide some guidance perhaps such that, that might develop in
the future, whether or not we should see a change in that trend.
Secondly then just for Richard, I wonder if you could give us any more visibility on the reasons
behind the discontinuation of generic Advair, was this decision based on regulatory discussions or
was this related to some other part of the product characteristics? And perhaps a question [ph]
for Harry. I didn't see it in the release. But do we have the exact numbers in the Sandoz oral US
solids business please, we've been up [ph] both sales and profits to take out of 2019. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. So thank you, Peter. Corporate cost, Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. On the corporate cost, I mean, first of all, let me -- first of all, let me start with all of our
guidance of course include always also the corporate sector even though is a small part and you
add up of course Innovative Medicines and Sandoz. So there are quite a few moving parts in that.
We expect actually for next year, that the corporate cost part comes down. And in the range of
$50 million to $80 million, but it's a bit more volatile, because it's often -- including some pension
charges and other things, share-based compensation, all of that would therefore a bit more
volatile than maybe other parts of the business. But we do see an overall reduction in the
corporate cost line, core corporate cost as we go into 2020.Maybe I should just add to it on Sandoz please...
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Please go ahead.
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
To it. So we have footnoted that a $1.1 billion in -- $1.2 billion in 2018 and $1.1 billion in 2019 on sales.
I can -- I just give you the exact numbers then you have it, and we will anyway, once the deal is
concluded, we will issue then for a set of pro forma financials. So the net sales of this part of the
business was $1.174 billion in 2018 and it's $1.072 billion in 2019. In terms of core operating income,
it was $294 million in '18 and now $272 million in 2019. Now that sounds probably very low decline.
It's of course helped that we stopped the depreciation and amortization of course for core the
stop of depreciation is important. And basically, the depreciation that didn't get booked was $9
million in 2018 and $26 million in 2019. So if you add that back, then you have there a decline of
14% on the bottom line.
But of course when we compare the numbers and when we give pro forma the $272 million and
$294 million for the two years in core operating income will be the ones that are the public [ph]
numbers.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Good. Thank you, Harry. And then generic Advair, Richard?
A - `Richard Saynor, Chief Executive Officer of Sandoz `
Thank you. So, as you know, we received a CRL for proposed Advair Gx in 2018 and our latest Q3
guidance that we would not be able to launch before H2 2020. Following a recent review of our
data readouts, we no longer see a pathway to launch in the next 18 months. And as a result,
we've decided to discontinue further development.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. And I think Peter, there is really much -- really data driven, not necessarily from a regulatory
feedback standpoint. Okay. Next question, operator?
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Stephan Schneider, Analyst, Vontobel from Vontobel. Please go ahead,
your line is now open.
Q - `Stephan Schneider, Analyst, Vontobel `
Yes, hi. Thank you. Vas, you showed us on slide 23 that in-line products and pipeline would sustain
long-term growth for the Company. What do you project for your bolt-ons which were on an
annual basis for $10 billion. Do you still need that to drive long-term growth? And the other one is
what about share buybacks in that context? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, Harry, you want to just go through our capital allocation priorities, and I can comment a little
more detail on M&A.A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, sure. Stephan, I mean, our capital allocation priorities have not changed, so -- and most of
you know them, I should repeat them sort of first being investments in attractive organic growth
opportunities. The second being to growing dividend and we assuming AGM approval, we will
pay out $7 billion early March to all of our shareholders in totality. And then third would be the
M&A bolt on acquisitions where was usually in the range of roughly 5%, that's not a formula. We
go buy it whatever the opportunities are, but I think it's mainly to indicate, we are not after large
M&A.
Last but not least, would be share buybacks, and we completed last year 5 billion share buyback
that we started in the middle of 2018. Now given also we bought Medicines company for a $9.7
billion, we will finance it, of course, share buyback at the moment, we do not see an additional
one. So we haven't announced it, therefore, whenever we would do an additional share buyback
we would announce it. We have a standing commitment that we always buy back employee
participation program. So we never dilute our shareholders with employee programs. And there
is of course an ongoing buyback that comes that we do without announcing it, but a specific
share buyback program at the moment is not announced. I do expect that share buybacks will be
always part of our capital allocation. But it's also the fourth priority.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Harry. And I think with respect to bolt-on M&A, I mean, when I look at this chart what I see
is the power of Novartis' internal R&D, and we appropriately supplement that with M&A, but
we're never in a position where we need to do or have to do M&A, we do it based on attractive
assets that fit with our M&A strategy.
And then if we can have very strong economics beyond the acquisition, then of course, we do
them. So we feel very good about our overall profile, and the strength of our internal R&D
engine.
Next question, operator. Thank you, Stephan.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Parkes, Analyst, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank. Please
go ahead, your line is now open.
Q - `Richard Parkes, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Hi. Thanks very much for taking my questions. Firstly on Cosentyx, you obviously raised your peak
sales guidance, but if we look at the Q-on-Q volume growth in the US, it's slowed a bit. And it
sounds like, you're talking about maintained rather than improved commercial access for 2020. I
know historically, we've seen a soft Q1 with an acceleration as you've benefited from improved
volumes. I wonder, if we should expect that again this year or are we in more of an equilibrium
with an acceleration more dependent on new approvals. That's the first question.
Second, I just wondered if, Harry could talk about the swing factors to the upper and lower end of
guidance, consensus is already at the -- pretty much at the top end of the guidance. So I
wondered if there's anything, maybe that we're not considering or is your range would you see
that as a conservative kind of start for the year? Final question is just a clarification is a few
products, where US sales have significantly exceeded the IQVIA volume growth in the quarter,including Entresto, Promacta and Gilenya. I just wondered if you could talk -- give us some insight
on trends in pricing mix and stocking changes impacting those products? Thanks.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Richard. So first on Cosentyx dynamics, Marie-France?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
So let me try and take parts of your question. So let me maybe address the Q4, Q1 transition. So
yes, we do expect the typical Q1 seasonality and we'll probably see that across the industry. We
actually aim to be broadly in line with Q4 potentially with a small deviation, but we wouldn't see a
very large deviation. With your access question, we remain very focused on first and second line
access. And obviously, the incremental RDs as usual to make sure that happens. We feel very
confident about where we are in access, there have been some changes, but we are in a solid
first-and second-line position in the US.
I just like to remind that we've continued and we sustained growth through multiple competitor
entries. And we see Cosentyx relatively untouched by new competitors coming in the
marketplace. If I just give you an example, so in the US we're outperforming both in dermatology
and rheumatology but if I take the dermatology market, we grew 27% this year versus the
marketplace at 12%, and if we look at quarter four, it's 27% with the marketplace growing at 14%.
We're very confident in Cosentyx product profile. But I think what's more important is that
physicians are really confident with Cosentyx product profile.
If we look at PSO, we provide complete treatment. Cosentyx is great on skin, but it is a complete
treatment, two-thirds of patients will have additional manifestations on nail, scalp and
palmoplantar and we do propose a very strong value proposition.
What's also important is that payers want an IL-17 on their formulary. And so we are in a very good
position to keep our market position. We're also leaders in the room space. So that's why we've
upped our guidance based on the momentum and also on the additional news flow that we
expect in the future.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Marie-France. I always think people should remind themselves Cosentyx has almost
45% of its sales now coming from rheumatology fast growth. And there, of course we faced
minimal competition and continue to have an outstanding profile that we expand with additional
indications. And Marie-France and her team are doing an outstanding job. So we feel very good
with where we are on Cosentyx. On guidance, Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I think, Richard, you asked about what are the potential swing factors? I mean, I think at the
end all, what we discussed here and there was three key elements on the top line. I think our key
growth drivers in market are well-established and that is not so much of a swing factor in my
mind. Of course, the launches, we have some key launches and there is always a range how fast
will be of you [ph] take up. It's a great start and other key launches that are driving onco and
pharma. So it's a bit the range of outcome on the launches. And the second piece of course then
the productivity part. There, we are very confident. We are slightly ahead of our $2 billion program
to be finalized this year. The next program is there, but that's completely under our control and
that's going extremely well.The third element is then the potential generic entries. And now we have now in the US basically
Exjade/Jadenu [ph] competition entering in November on Afinitor 3 lower strengths not yet the
higher strength and then travoprost. Another element of course will be how quickly are the
valsartan generic suppliers resubmitting, some of them are back in the market and we would
expect that Diovan and Exforge decline in 2020.
Now there are some other smaller products in after pharma, of course, it could be that these
come a bit later. Then we talk about the higher-end, and also if our launches overperform, we talk
at the higher end of the guidance. So it's usual, let's say, a set of swing factors, but overall very
confident in the top line growth, a bit more on this uncertainty what generics outside of Gilenya
and Sas LAR which are out of our guidance, on the other smaller products when are they coming
in.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Harry. And then I think on the last question on the IQVIA mismatch, probably we can't
comment on why the data mismatch. But in terms of Entresto dynamics, and then in terms of
Kisqali and Taf/Mek dynamics. Maybe first Marie-France, you want to comment on Entresto
momentum in the US and then Susanna, you can comment on the onco portfolio.
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
So as you saw before the momentum for Entresto is extremely strong and it's really based on
demand. As I said before, the NBRxs are at an all time high, in the US, we've seen an fantastic
quarter four, and we expect that momentum to continue through 2020. We're very encouraged
by the fact that we have very strong data both in supporting ambulatory initiations, but also in
hospital initiations. We have strong endorsement from the guidelines from ACC, AHA and ESC.
And also we've got opportunities to grow in the future in China and Japan.
So I think we're poised to do really well with Entresto this year.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Marie-France. And volume dynamic, Susanna?
A - `Susanne Schaffert, President of Novartis Oncology `
And I think also on the oncology portfolio in the US, very, very strong accelerated growth on
Kisqali. And I think, Richard, you pointed out Promacta actually there, we see continued strong
growth in ITP and also very strong uptake in first-line SAA. We also had very favorable guidelines
published at ASH putting Promacta favorable versus Revlimid, so continued growth there and very
pleased with the momentum.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
So overall, Richard, I'd say it's not stocking or other effects, this is real demand growth that we're
seeing on our key brands. So next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs. Please
go ahead, your line is now open.
Q - `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `Good afternoon, and thank you for taking my questions. The first one is, Vas last year, Novartis
started by guiding to operating profit for the Innovative Medicines business to grow at mid to
high-single digits, and you ended the year delivering 17%. Can you help us think about what might
be the factors that might prevent you from doing similar levels of growth or a similar kind of
momentum as we look at 2020?
That's question number one. Question number two, relative to inclisiran. And you spoke about
the NHS kind of memorandum of understanding being hundreds of thousands of patients to
begin with. The highest selling medicine in the UK prior to inclisiran would have been Humira at
about GBP400 million in NHS spend, as one thinks about potential market pricing for inclisiran
with the kind of population numbers we are talking about, how likely is it that inclisiran is not the
biggest selling medicine in the UK? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
My first comment Keyur, as your questions are strangely like in entrapment, I feel like. So I will do
my best to answer them. On the overall momentum as Harry said, of course, we have
tremendous momentum on our growth brands, on our launches. I think the key difference
between 2020 and 2019 is we do have the Exjade and Afinitor generics coming in. We also have
the ophtha mature portfolio with generic exposure, and there's just a range of different
outcomes for those brands. And on the upside of course, if our launch brands deliver or over
deliver our aspirations, they would more than offset them.
So and that's why we gave the range that we've given at the start of this year to be prudent, and
then, we'll of course update as we year progresses. And we have a better read on some of
these key launches that are currently ongoing.
Now on -- with respect to inclisiran, it's certainly our aspiration that we would want to make it one
of the largest medicines or if not the largest medicine in the history of the NHS, but we have
many steps to get there. We have to get the medicine approved. We have to arrive at the final
agreement with the UK and NICE and then ultimately, we need to drive significant uptake within
the NHS system, which will require Marie-France and her team to do a lot of work to ensure that
patients are diagnosed and ultimately get the medicine. The good news and what we're excited
about is the commitment of the NHS to work together with us to drive that uptake, which is what
we feel like on the first part of this agreement is truly unprecedented for the Head of the NHS
and myself to sit together and discuss the introduction of a medicine into the NHS system and
the goal of driving large scale utilization together, including the NHS directly working on driving
that utilization themselves. I think that shows the potential of this medicine to impact what is the
leading cause of death and disability for health care system. So there's a huge desire. I've been
genuinely impressed by the partnership that we've seen with the UK NHS and relevant UK
government agencies on this. And what -- hopeful now is that we can replicate it in other
geographies and hopefully at other systems in the US as well.
Okay. And now we have -- we still have seven to eight questions left. And so I would ask now that
we do our best to limit yourself to one question and that one question should have no more than
two sub-parts to it. So, next question.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Laura Sutcliffe, Analyst, UBS from UBS. Please go ahead, your line is
now open.
Q - `Laura Sutcliffe, Analyst, UBS `Hello. Thanks for taking my question. It is one question with two sub-parts. And for the assets
going to Aurobindo, do you see any further risks to the execution timeline? And have there been
any changes to what you are actually going to be able to dispose of there? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Richard?
A - `Richard Saynor, Chief Executive Officer of Sandoz `
Thank you, Laura. We are confident we'll close this quarter, we're moving in the direction we
would expect to. We're working closely with Aurobindo on the FTC to close that off and there
shouldn't be any surprises.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thank you, Richard. Thank you, Laura. Next question?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Vosser, Analyst, JPMorgan from JPMorgan. Please go
ahead, your line is now open.
Q - `Richard Vosser, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. So just one about the tax rate. So just, I think we had an idea
that the tax rate might go up to in between a range of 16% to 17% because of some of the tax
reform in Switzerland and maybe the US. So just thoughts on what's going on there to bring it in
line for 2020 sort of 16% and how we should think about it going forward? Thanks very much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
All right. Thank you, Richard. So it's of course, always the core tax rates and the tax rates move
around with a bit of different split of profits in the different geographies we are differently taxed.
So again, I was pleased that for 2020. We have an outlook that the tax rate of -- core tax of 16% is
a realistic basically in the range of last year. And as an ongoing, there could be an increase in the
range of the this 16% to 17%, -- 17.5%. But we ill update really here year-by-year, and there's a lot
going on -- in the overall tax -- field of taxes.
On the other hand, we feel that we have a very attractive tax rate and that we will continue to
have very attractive tax rate. And of course the Swiss tax reform being embedded and approved
last year, is super helpful for that, but it's very hard to give exact long term outlooks on it, but I'm
confident we'll continue to have a very attractive tax rate in a range of 16% to 17.5% in the long-
term.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thank you, Richard. Thank you, Harry. Next question, operator?
OperatorThank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Eric Le Berrigaud, Analyst, Bryan Garnier from Bryan Garnier.
Please go ahead, your line is now open.
Q - `Eric Le Berrigaud, Analyst, Bryan Garnier `
Yes, good afternoon. So one question as well. We understand clearly what is beyond your
assumption that Gilenya, there won't be any generic in 2020. Maybe a word on when you also
take the assumption that there won't be any Sandostatin generic in the US, it seems that Teva is
quite hopeful to get positively out of the CRL answer they got last year and to be in the market
by the end of the first half.
So could you give maybe some sensitivity of, if that happens, does that change anything to your
guidance? Thanks very much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thank you, Eric. On Sandostatin, we can -- as you know, there has been an ongoing effort to
launch a generic on Sandostatin LAR given its unique formulations since I believe 2006 or 2007. It
is a very complex formulation and a complex manufacturing process. We -- to our understanding
have not seen any activity in the channels to indicate an entrance. And so if and when that
changes we'll of course let you know and update our guidance appropriately.
I don't know, Harry, if you want to comment on the level of the fact.
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
The US sales of Sas LAR, right, if you assume a mid-year, this would not be so material. Of course
on both, there would be next Gilenya and Sas LAR then we would have to update, but with Sas
LAR alone assuming a mid-year US entry would not change our guidance. It's a big enough range.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And I would also say, it's important to note, given the production challenges with Sandostatin LAR,
I think this -- we expect this to more look like a biosimilar type erosion as we've seen in Europe,
where we've been able to hold very well our Sandostatin LAR share even in the face of entrants
in Germany and the few other countries.
Okay. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question is from the line of `Naresh Chouhan, Analyst, Intron Health from Intron Health. Please go
ahead, your line is now open.
Q - `Naresh Chouhan, Analyst, Intron Health `
Hi, there. Sorry, my questions just been answered. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Naresh. We appreciate your interest. Next question, operator?
OperatorYour next question comes from line of `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead, your
line is now open.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Yeah. Thanks for squeezing me in, Vas. Cosentyx, two parts. On the first part for non-radiographic
axSpA and the use of PRV, clearly you have confidence the opportunity here for the product as
partly raised against how it's [ph] built? Is this a reflection of patient cycling dynamics or subgroup
data from the prevent study or just as a portfolio play you have from an transformative position
because in-market seems you has incredibly strong data in this setting on the face of superior. So
just trying to understand the payers and physicians want both the TNF and IL-17 approach.
And then the related question in terms of the IL-17A and IL-17F head-to-head trials is expected this
year versus Cosentyx from UCB's Bimekizumab. If you see superiority, do you feel that have any
impact given of the IL-23, IL-17 as you said, physicians and payers want an example of both, but if
it's a head-to-head and IL 17A for -- IL-17A, IL-17F head-to-head study would that have any impact
on the psoriasis indication for Cosentyx as you expand into new compensating indications?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks for the question. On Cosentyx non-radiographic axial SpA, the reason we're excited
is again, the mechanism here by IL-17A versus TNF molecules allows you to really target
emphasize this or of the MTC's insertion points and we believe in the long run leads to slower
progression of the disease and physicians, the reason, you've had such a strong uptake in PSA
and AS with IL-17A and particularly Cosentyx is because of that mechanism and the data we've
been able to show across a range of different indications.
So we think versus a TNF option patients will prefer IL-17A, also there is an impressive safety
profile non-radiographic, you're moving into earlier lines of -- really in earlier line of therapy, so
safety also matters.
So we think we'll have the right profile. We think given Cosentyx overall strength in rheumatology,
we want to expand the full indication range quickly, we have non-radiographic that we have -- as
we've loaded in the R&D Day, a broad range of eight additional indications we're pursuing
primarily in rheumatology to really build out the base. So that's very much the goal.
And IL-17AF look, we believe Cosentyx now has six, seven years of real world data, has a broad
label, has proven itself for physicians. And so we are not particularly concerned about other IL-17
inhibitors now coming in five, six years after with a single trial. I think as Marie-France noted, we
have been able to head off every single one of the entrants that have come in to say and let --
leading all of you to say that the end of Cosentyx is near and we've been able to keep growing. I
think that speaks to the power of the medicine. And that's what we'll keep driving. And then the
last -- one last question, operator?
Operator
Your last question comes from the line of `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn from Redburn. Please go ahead, your line
is now open.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn `
Thank you, everyone, for hanging around for my question. France, you began the presentation
with a very persuasive presentation on your commitment to Novartis' ESG philosophy and target.that they currently have on Novartis which we know from talking from clients is preventing some
investors from holding your stock. Thanks so much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
I appreciate the questions. And we are very committed to demonstrating to MSCI Sustainalytics
and the relevant other firms, the depth and breadth of our commitment to these topics. You will
see in the appendix of our Novartis in Society report, the most comprehensive review of our
position in all of these areas that we've ever done. We're doing an online system as well to
provide these agencies with all the relevant facts.
We're working very hard to resolve the remaining late -- topics we have from the past with
respect to some of our legacy issues. And I'm optimistic we'll be able to get to a better place
with the reports coming out later this year. It's certainly a top focus for me and our management
team. So hopefully, we'll be able to do that and those investors then would be able to invest in
our -- we believe great Company.
Thank you all very much, and appreciate you stick -- sticking around a little longer. And we'll look
forward to providing you another update in a few months. I wish you a great 2020, great start to
the next decade. And thank you for your interest in Novartis.
Operator
That does conclude our conference for today. Thank you for participating. We will now disconnect.