Y 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning and good afternoon and welcome to the Novartis Q4 and Full-Year 2020 Results
Release Conference Call and Live Audio Webcast. Please note that during the presentation all
participants will be in a listen-only mode and the conference is being recorded. (Operator
Instructions)
With that, I would like to hand over to Mr. `Samir Shah, Global Head of Investor Relations, Global Head of Investor Relations. Please
go ahead, sir.
`Samir Shah, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, and good morning and good afternoon to everybody and thank you for
taking the time to join us on this Q4 full-year results presentation. The information presented
today contains forward-looking statements that involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties,
and other factors. These may cause actual results to be materially different from any future
results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by such statements. Please refer to
the company's Form 20-F on file with the US Securities and Exchange Commission for a
description of some of these factors.And thank you again for joining us and I'll hand across to Vas Narasimham. Vas?
`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Samir. And I also wanted to say thank you all for joining today's conference call.
If we move to Slide 3, with me today I have a number of my ECN colleagues: Harry, Susanne,
Marie-France, `John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and CMO, Richard, and Shannon and will be available to take your questions and
also will be joining me for parts of the presentation.
So, if we move to Slide 5, over the past three years, we've been executing on a strategy we set
out in 2018 to focus the company, focus on certain geographies to accelerate our growth and to
focus on five strategic priorities that we remain committed to and believe in the long run will
enable Novartis to sustainably grow and sustainably have impact on healthcare around the world
and deliver on our purpose to reimagine medicine. And then when you look at some of the proof
points, as we've set out on this journey, we believe we're making good progress, always more to
do, always things to learn. We are making good progress.
We are 100% focused now as a medicines company. We have a leading pipeline across 10
therapeutic areas four advanced therapy platforms, unique in that having only 8% of our sales in
one product and over 15 blockbusters. We've achieved $2 billion in cost savings over the last
three years. A leading data science platform that's enabling us to weather this pandemic and I
believe sets us up for the medium and long-term. Consistently improving ESG scores now with
sector-leading performance in four key indices. And from a culture standpoint, record high
engagement scores across multiple different measures.
Now, moving to Slide 6, when you look at how the strategy has translated into operational
performance, we see solid operational performance over the past three years, with sales
growing 5% from $42 billion to approaching $49 billion, core OpInc growing double-digit at 10%,
exceeding now $15 billion and we've reached our goal -- our initial goal of Innovative Medicines
core margin to 35%, on our way to our mid-term goal of the high-30s which we are well on track
to achieve.
Now, turning to this year's performance -- sorry, the 2020 performance and Q4 performance, on
Slide 7, you can see a breakdown of some of the key drivers. As you saw in our release, net sales
for the full year were up 3% and core operating income up 13%. Our overall performance in Q4,
as well as the full year were driven by our key growth drivers of Entresto and Cosentyx,
continuing to demonstrate double-digit growth. A broad range of oncology medicines also
demonstrating double-digit growth and taken together, we now have over half of our sales
coming from our key growth drivers and launches in the Innovative Medicines, positioning us well
for the future and positioning us well to overcome the patent expiries we have in this period and
continue to drive growth through 2025 and beyond.
Now, moving to Slide 8, I wanted to dive into a few of the products in Sandoz before turning it
over to my colleagues. First on Zolgensma. Full-year sales were $920 million in the first full year
since launch. Medicine is now registered in 37 countries. We're making very good progress in the
rollout of this medicine around the world. As you saw in Q4, we had sales of $254 million, which
were lower than Q3. And this was driven primarily by COVID-19 related impact, delaying new
starts as hospitals have faced disruption and we saw physicians delaying starts or switches to the
product as well as delays in reimbursement decisions in some of the European and emerging
markets we're currently working with.We expect this impact to continue through the first half of 2021 where we would expect sales in
that Q3, Q4 range, before an acceleration in the second half of the year, but we remain confident
in the longer term potential of the medicine in the IV form to reach ultimately $2 billion. It remains
a treatment of choice for newly diagnosed patients. We are seeing about 15% of patients in the
EU in the older than two year age range. We're on our way to get access in nine EU countries
which would be about 25% of the population and we have important formal reimbursement
decisions in 15 countries over the coming year to two years. So taken together, we think we're on
the right track.
When you look at the IT program, we continue to await the animal data, which we expect to have
in the middle of this year to the back half of this year to remove the partial clinical hold if the data
confirms the safety profile. We are working with the FDA to finalize the design of a pivotal
confirmatory study, which we then rapidly plan on implementing. We continue to progress our 10
early stage programs in gene therapies with two INDs and clinical trial starts planned in 2021.
Now, moving to Slide 9, I also wanted to say a word regarding our performance in China. Now, as
you saw in our release, we were very pleased with our growth in China, with sales growing 16%,
second fastest amongst multinationals in China. Our goal is to double our sales in the country by
2024, making China the second largest market for Novartis in the world. Our key growth drivers,
similar to what we see in other geographies are Entresto, Consentyx as well as our other
oncology strategic brands. What's very notable, I think, is the number of NRDL listings we
achieved, we believe the highest in this industry in 2020. We also have a rich pipeline with seven
approvals expected in 2021. So taken together, we think we're on the right track to reach our
goals in China and really continue to drive dynamic growth in this important market.
So, moving to Slide 10, with respect to Sandoz, you saw in the full-year Sandoz met the sales
guidance largely in line for the full year and the quarter. Importantly, Sandoz was able to drive 15%
core operating income growth, moving its core margin up to 24.2%. Some of the pushes and pulls
for Sandoz are continued strong biopharmaceuticals performance of 19% growth, primarily in the
European market, but also held back a bit by our retail -- retail declines we saw driven by COVID-
19 and the US oral solids business that we now retain. I think taking a longer-term view on Sandoz,
we remain determined to build a business that can grow mid single digit with margins in the mid
to high 20s, really competitive with the top end of the peer set. And we expect to be able to do
that through a robust biosimilars pipeline, as well as high LoE coverage amongst small molecule
through the 2024 period.
Now, moving to Slide 11, I did want to say a word about the company's efforts to overcome the
COVID-19 challenges we see in the marketplace. Harry will talk a little bit more about our
guidance, but certainly when you look at the healthcare system's performance over the back half
of last year, we continue to see a situation where healthcare systems didn't return fully to their
pre-pandemic levels. Here on the left hand side of the chart, you see two examples. In
dermatology, we continue to see patient visits in NBRx below the pre-pandemic levels. And the
bottom, you can see in the oncology markets, depending on the cancer setting, you have biopsy
and surgery rates below pre-pandemic levels, also in the CDK4/6 market.
So for the first half of 2021, we expect to continue to see challenges for certain therapeutic areas
such as dermatology and ophthalmology, as well as in Sandoz Retail. We expect that some of our
new launches will be impacted that we expect to continue to see solid progress and you'll hear
more about that from Marie-France on preparing for these launches to accelerate in the back half
of the year such as Kesimpta and Mayzent. And we also know products that involve hospital
initiations such as Kymriah, Lutathera, and Zolgensma will face a tougher situation in the first partof the year. Again, we would plan to overcome that in this period and then hopefully see
acceleration in the second half of the year.
Now, moving to Slide 12, turning to our innovation performance and innovation milestones, in Q4,
we saw the approval of Leqvio in the EU, six months ahead of schedule. We saw the positive FDA
outcome for Entresto in preserved ejection fraction heart failure, as well as a number of other
notable achievements, a number of designations achieved for iptacopan and ligelizumab, I think,
demonstrating the potential of these medicines as they continue to progress in late stage
development.
We also signed an important in-licensing deal on Tislelizumab with BeiGene for anti-PD-1 which we
hope we'll be able to file later this year in the US and other markets.
I just wanted to say a word, as I know there have been a number of questions on Leqvio and an
update on the CRL. Now, first and foremost, it's important to note that there are no safety,
efficacy, or product-related concerns with respect to Leqvio in the CRL. As I mentioned, the EU
fully approved this product out of the same facilities that we also filed for the US FDA. The CRL
was related to facility inspection related conditions, primarily related to documentation and
controls, certain control systems at a third-party manufacturer in Europe. We expect based on the
third-party readiness to complete the requests made by FDA to be able to submit the
documentation and other requests of FDA in the Q2, Q3 time period.
We still do not know if the FDA will ultimately want to inspect this facility. As noted previously, the
FDA had originally planned to inspect this facility in May of 2020. They are currently not
conducting overseas inspections and in situations like this. So, we'll continue to have to work with
the FDA to try to expedite that inspection and we are concurrently working on a tech transfer to
add our own Novartis facility in Schaftenau for the production supply chain of Leqvio. So we
remain confident. We will get this product approved as fast as possible and then continue our
plans to launch this medicine, which -- in a highly effective way which Marie-France will go through
in a bit more detail in a moment.
Now moving to Slide 13, other innovation milestones that we expect for 2021. Multiple major
approvals, Kesimpta in the EU, Entresto HFpEF for an expanded indication for Entresto. A number
of major submissions you can see listed here, including Asciminib in CML. We have also a range of
major readouts that -- which would enable submissions in 2021, notably Canakinumab,
Sabatolimab, MBG453, and Lu-PSMA, amongst others. We also will hope to see the readouts of
Ligelizumab and Cosentyx which would enable submissions in 2022.
And I also wanted to say a word on our next wave of assets, which you can see on Slide 14. Here,
we lay out the five lifecycle management programs, five pharmaceutical programs, five oncology
programs, and five wildcards we'd highlighted in our meet the management meetings. And in
many of these programs, we have milestones expected in 2021. You can also see the milestone
chart in the appendix of this document. I will note a few. We expect the PARADISE post-AMI trial to
readout in the first half of 2021. I already mentioned Cosentyx and Hidradenitis
Suppurativa, the Kisqali MONALEESA-2 OS in the second half of '21. We'll see important mid-
stage readouts for iptacopan in IgA nephropathy and C3G. We'll see also an important Phase IIb
start for Branaplam in Huntington's disease and then of course the range of oncology milestones
as well across the oncology -- various oncology molecules. Important to note, in all of these
projects, we have full teams working to accelerate them and working as fast as possible to
maintain their progress through the pandemic and beyond. Particularly, we're looking forward to
continue to advance our SHP2 inhibitor and our cRAF inhibitor as well in the oncology portfolio.So hope that gives you an overview of our story, mid and long term story, most importantly, but
also our story in Q4 and for 2021. And with that, I'll hand it over to Marie-France. Marie-France?
`Marie-France Tschudin, President, Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Thank you, Vas. So going on to Slide 16. Good morning, good afternoon and pleased to update
you on the 2020 performance for pharma. We grew 5% year-over-year in a challenging
environment and our growth drivers Cosentyx and Entresto showed continued momentum and
now account for $6.5 billion in revenues. But the story that stands out here is the shift that you
see in our portfolio. The contribution from growth drivers and launches went from 33% to 43%
and that demonstrates our replacement power in light of several patent expiries expected. We're
delivering strong operational performance in the end market growth drivers. We also made
progress in the next wave of potential launches, providing the basis for growth in 2021 and
beyond.
Slide 17, once again, Cosentyx delivered double-digit growth and reached $4 billion for the full
year. Our focus is on continuing to compete strongly to maintain our position in dermatology and
accelerate in rheumatology. We know what we need to do to grow. We need to make sure we
maintain broad access and balance that with a long-term value of Cosentyx and you can expect
us to continue to do that. We'll expand into new geographies. In fact, we are now the only
innovative biologic with broad NRDL listing in China and we'll make sure that we're competitive in
the marketplace with our industry-leading approach to data and presence as well as a number of
new indications as we deliver on our ambitious lifecycle management program.
There is still tremendous opportunity in this market and between the data, the access and our
outstanding teams, we have what it takes for Cosentyx to continue to grow.
On Slide 18, Entresto continues to deliver 44% full-year growth and the momentum continues
across all of the geographies. As you know, we're the only single use medicine proven to be
superior to previous standard of care and thus, we're in a strong competitive position. It's also
great to see that the American College of Cardiologists expert consensus now recommends the
heart failure patients go direct-to-ARNI. And this puts Entresto in the pole position for the 75% of
patients who are still on previous standard of care. We also have exciting opportunities for growth
with expansion in China and Japan, as well as our life cycle management program for pEF or
preserved ejection fraction and post-AMI.
If we move to the next slide, the AdComm discussion for pEF reinforce the unmet need as well
as Entresto's value in the treatment of preserved ejection fraction and specifically, in patients with
ejection fraction below normal. Ultimately, the addressable patient pool will depend on the label.
What I can tell you is that the total population is about 3 million in the US and about 2 million of
them have an ejection fraction below normal. We know from our deep experience in rEF that
guidelines matter in this market. So, our update will be gradual as the guidelines evolve. Overall,
we're very comfortable with Entresto's peak consensus and we're confident that Entresto is
going to continue on its impressive growth trajectory.
If we move to Slide 20, and on to Kesimpta, we've said we have high expectations for this
product. Our team is executing very effectively on the launch. In fact, we have beat all of our plans
on gaining access. We're seeing broad adoption, we have leading share of attention. On-
boarding is fast and initiation is simple, but we do feel that it is more challenging to launch during
a pandemic. We cannot move as fast as we would like due to the limited face-to-face access to
physicians and what we're also seeing is a hesitancy to switch as physicians and patients prefer to
wait. But this does not change our ambition for this product. We think that B-cell therapies havefirst choice DMT as we relentlessly track for the highest customer satisfaction. We have the
foundational elements in place. We're focusing on breadth and with our free drug program. Once
we're out of this pandemic and we can pull our full promotional power behind Kesimpta, we will
really see the potential of this product.
If we move on to Slide 21, we're also enthusiastically preparing for the launch of Leqvio. Leqvio
received EU approval in December and we expect a slow and steady start. We also plan to roll
out our first population health agreement with the UK NHS in quarter three. In the US, as you've
heard, we have a manufacturing-related delay, which we're working to resolve. But what is
important to remember is that we're thinking about this launch very differently. Our aim is to
partner with healthcare systems on ASCVD management to overcome the non-clinical barriers to
tackling this disease at scale. We're now using this time to advance our engagement with
healthcare systems and to set up the needed infrastructure so that we can be stronger out of the
gate once we get the green light from FDA.
Slide 22. 2020 was definitely a year like no other, but the external environment did not stop us
from doing what we're passionate about and that is bringing medicines to patients. Our teams
have worked hard and demonstrated great agility and resilience and I'm very proud of this team.
Our 2021 strategy builds on the good work done. Number one, we want to maintain the
momentum on Cosentyx and Entresto, penetrating markets further, and delivering on our life
cycle management programs. Two, executing our launches, ramping up Kesimpta, bringing
Leqvio to market and restoring confidence in Beovu. And three, getting ready for the next wave
of launches. Geographically, we have a clear focus on the US and China and we're putting our
customers at the core of our strategy. You will see us working in a much more personalized
fashion with physicians, leveraging the investments that we've made in data and digital and with
healthcare systems to deliver access to more patients faster.
Over to Susanne.
`Susanne Schaffert, President, Novartis Oncology `
Thank you, Marie-France. So, moving to Slide 24, the oncology business had solid performance
despite significant generic erosion and COVID impact, delivering 3% growth and reaching $14.7
billion. In Q4, we have seen very good momentum across our portfolio, mainly driven by the
strong uptake of our recent launches and continued strong performance of our growth drivers.
And these brands could also more than compensate for the continued generic erosion of Afinitor
and Exjade in the US and Sandostatin LAR in the EU.
Due to the pandemic, some areas of our business, as mentioned by Vas, like the hospital-
initiated therapies and specifically breast cancer therapies, continue to experience delays in new
patient starts as well as concerns about patient management during COVID and -- but I have to
say, our teams really stepped out and we leveraged our robust digital capabilities and embarked
on omnichannel launches for Tabrecta in the US and Piqray and Adakveo in Europe and are very
pleased that these launches continued gaining momentum despite limited face-to-face
interactions with physicians.
Moving to Slide 25 and Kisqali, Kisqali delivered a very strong performance in 2020 with full year
sales up 45%, reaching $870 million and this is driven by the unprecedented overall survival
benefit from two pivotal Phase III clinical trials. We are also very pleased to see Kisqali continue
growing and gaining market share despite the overall slowdown of the CDK4/6 market driven by
suppressed patient screening and overall decrease in new patient starts. At a recent Congress in
San Antonio, we were very proud to share that Kisqali demonstrated the longest median overallsurvival among all Phase III trials in advanced breast cancer, reaching nearly five years of survival in
pre-menopausal patients.
And additionally, we presented the pooled data from MONALEESA studies that confirmed
efficacy across luminal and (inaudible) therapy resistant HER2 enriched patient subtypes. And
these data confirm that Kisqali's ability to selectively inhibit CDK4 may restore endocrine
sensitivity in this very aggressive tumors. On the development side, the NATALEE adjuvant study
in intermediate and high-risk population is enrolling incredibly well and we are on track for final
readout in 2022. So, overall, we're very pleased with the performance of Kisqali and remain very
confident in this brand.
Moving to slide 26, also Kymriah had an excellent year with sales up 68% driven by strong
double-digit growth across all geographies despite pandemic conditions. We continue to expand
our global presence. There is now over 290 centers qualified to administer Kymriah across 27
markets. Commercial manufacturing for Kymriah has been expanded with the recent approval of
FBRI in Japan, and this is building on previous approvals of Stein and Les Ulis earlier in the year. In
2020, we made also significant progress in expanding our global manufacturing capacity. This is
70% increase compared to previous year and we also continue to improve the robustness of our
process, leading to an increased manufacturing success rates.
On the development side, we were pleased to share the new data from the ELARA trial, showing
that Kymriah is effective in pre-treated patients with relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma.
Submission for this important indication is expected later this year and we have also presented
the JULIET updated efficacy result which showed continued durable responses for patients with
relapsed or refractory DLBCL. We also continue to invest in our CAR-T therapies. There is already
two new CAR-T assets in Phase I trials being manufactured on a completely novel CAR-T
platform. With this technology, we expect to increase manufacturing reliability, shorten the
turnaround times and the preservation of certain T-cell sub-population.
Moving to the next slide, we'd like to share with you the exciting data we have recently presented
at ASH on Asciminib, our first-in-class STAMP inhibitor that has the potential to transform CML
treatment standards. In the Phase III ASCEMBL trial, Asciminib nearly doubled the major molecular
response rate at 24 weeks compared to bosutinib in patients resistant to or intolerant of at least
two prior TKIs. Asciminib also demonstrated favorable safety profile, underscoring that STAMP
inhibition reduces the off-target adverse events typical for TKIs. The US FDA has granted Fast
Track designation earlier December and we are on track with the US and EU submissions in the
first half of '21. We also continue evaluating multiple development options for Asciminib in early
treatment lines in CML and looking forward to update you in the future.
Moving to slide 28, I would like to give an outlook also on '21. We will continue to maximize our
growth drivers and we expect continued growth from Kisqali. We are going to leverage the
increased manufacturing capacity to drive further growth in Kymriah and for Lutathera, we plan to
unlock the potential in the community setting in the US, and grow use in earlier lines. We expect
also continued growth from our growth drivers Revolade, Promacta, Jakavi and Tafinlar Mekinist.
We are also committed to deliver on our launches. We will further expand Piqray in the US and
gain momentum in Europe and we hope to continue strong on Adakveo, expanding to larger
accounts in the US and continue global rollout. We will further maximize the first-mover advantage
with Tabrecta in the US and we'll continue driving awareness of CML and the unmet need and the
importance of STAMP inhibitors. Last but not least, we will prepare for our next big bet, Lutetium
PSMA by advancing our commercial organization for the readout of VISION trial later this year and
also focus in medical education on Canakinumab to establish the importance of pro-tumor
inflammation. Another important focus for us is the medical education on Sabatolimab, to buildawareness for the dual mechanism of action of TIM-3 in MDS and AML. And as Vas said, we are
advancing our early assets TNO155 and LXH254 in a broad range of combination studies.
Moving to Slide 29, just to give you an update on the recently announced deal to in-license
Tislelizumab from BeiGene. This is a late-stage PD-1 inhibitor specifically engineered to minimize
binding to the Fc gamma receptor on macrophages. Tislelizumab has 15 potentially registration
enabling clinical trials currently ongoing with first ex-China filing expected in 2021. With this deal
Novartis obtains development and commercial rights on key markets ex-China, including US,
Europe, and Japan. It is a very attractive asset for us as we look to expand our presence in the
checkpoint inhibitor space and it provides us with an opportunity to launch a PD-1 sooner in broad
and important indications such as lung cancer. We have identified also multiple potential
combination opportunities within Novartis portfolio across all of our four therapeutic platforms.
So, we are very excited about collaborating with BeiGene to bring Tislelizumab to patients around
the world and we are looking forward to provide you with more updates after the transaction is
closed later this year.
And with that, I hand over to Harry.
`Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Susanne. Good morning, good afternoon, everyone. I am now going to walk you
through some of the financials for the fourth quarter and full-year as well as provide you with our
'21 guidance. As always, my comments refer the results of continuing operations and growth
rates in constant currencies, unless otherwise noted.
So turning to Slide 31, we compare our actual results here with our 2020 latest guidance and as
you know, we revised our core operating income guidance upward in October and I'm pleased to
say that we met both core operating income and the sales guidance. On sales, given the
resurgence of COVID-19 in quarter four, we ended at the low end of the 3% to 4% range as we
mentioned during the quarter three investor call.
Now Slide 32 shows the summary of the performance for quarter four and full-year. I will focus on
the full-year results on the right hand side. Full-year performance was solid, with sales growing 3%
at both core operating income and core EPS growing 13%. Sales were of course mainly driven by
Entresto, Zolgensma, and Cosentyx. Core operating income growth was driven by higher sales,
some lower spend and the significant productivity programs. Operating income grew 19%, driving
net income growth of 20%. We will come back to the free cash flow number, which was $11.7
billion, a little later. Overall, clearly a solid yearly performance, especially given the challenging
business environment we are all in.
Next, let's focus on the core margins on Slide 33, again showing on the right hand full-year, left
hand quarter four. For the full year, continuing operations' core margin was 31.7%, growing 280
basis points in constant currencies, with strong improvements in both divisions. Innovative
Medicines' margin reached 35% as outlooked, up 220 basis points, allowing us to achieve our
previously announced mid-30s core margin target a couple of years earlier than planned. And
Sandoz margin grew by 330 basis points to 24.2%. Clearly, our full-year margin show we are well
on track to deliver on our Innovative Medicines margin targets of the high-30s in the mid term, as
well as our Sandoz margin target of mid to high 20s in the mid-term.
Let's go to the next slide. As mentioned earlier, free cash flow for the full-year was $11.7 billion,
down 10% versus prior year. Obviously, this was because higher operating income was more than
offset by the payments related to legal matters and higher divestment proceeds in the prior year.Now, turning to our full-year 2021 guidance on Slide 35, we expect sales to grow low to mid
single digit and core operating income to grow mid single digit, ahead of sales driving core
margin increase. Within the divisions, we expect Innovative Medicine sales to grow mid single
digit and Sandoz top line to be broadly in line with the prior year. The Sandoz guidance is due to
the impact of COVID on our retail business and expected decline of US oral solid business. The
key assumption for this guidance, importantly, is that we see a return to normal global healthcare
systems and prescribing dynamics by the middle of 2021. And in addition, we assume that no
Gilenya and no Sandostatin LAR generics enter in 2021 in the US. Please also note that the overall
generic impact is expected to be in the range of the negative minus 3% of sales, similar to what
we saw in 2020. We expect there to be continued generic erosion on brands, including Afinitor,
Exjade, Glivec also some mature ophtha brands and Diovan.
On Slide 36, I would like to explain the dynamics that we expect to see in quarter one, given that
we had quiet significant COVID impact last year quarter one, which of course would impact the
growth rate. So, as you recall, there was a significant forward purchasing in quarter one of last
year, the growth approximately 3 points of growth, but largely reversed in quarter two with no
overall impact on the full year 2020. So as a result, in quarter one 2021, we anticipate sales to
decline low to mid single digits year-on-year. The quarter one underlying performance, excluding
the stocking effect, is expected to be broadly in line with prior year, due to the continued COVID-
19 impact on healthcare systems and patient visits.
Turning to Slide 37, in 2021, we do expect further margin expansion, as mentioned earlier, with
core operating income growth. And the magnitude, however, will be lower compared to 2020,
where we increased core margins by 280 basis points. Expected positive drivers of future core
operating income growth include the continued performance of our growth drivers to launch
uptake of Kesimpta and other launches as well as productivity programs and continuing adoption
of our new ways of working. Growth will be partly offset by increased launch and prelaunch
investments, mainly Kesimpta and Leqvio as well as development costs for tislelizumab, which we
recently in-licensed from BeiGene, of course only after the completion of the transaction. We will
also likely see further investments into growth drivers as we expect physician access to normalize
from middle of the year.
On Slide 38, I would like to add some perspective on other key financial elements of the
expected bottom line performance. As you can see, we expect core net financial expenses to be
broadly in line with 2020 and also the 2021 core tax rate to be around 16%.
Next slide, please. So as you can see here on Slide 39, we are pleased to propose our 24th
consecutive dividend increase to three Swiss francs per share. This is an increase of 2%, with our
dividend yields remaining above 3% and fully in line with our dividend policy of increasing our
dividend every year in Swiss francs.
And finally, on Slide 40, as currencies constantly change, I want to bring to your attention the
estimated currency impact on our results using the current exchange rate. So if late January rates
prevail for 2021, we would see a full-year impact of currencies on sales, around 3% to 4% positive
and on core operating income 3% positive. For quarter one, as you can see here, sales would be
positive 4% and on core operating income, a positive 2%. And as you know, we update these
expected currency impacts every month on our website.
With that, I hand back to Vas.
`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `Great. Thank you, Harry. Turning to Slide 42, just a final word on our ESG progress as a company. I
think as many of you know, we have placed a high priority in being a leader in our sector on ESG
across our four main areas of focus through our materiality assessment. Some of the highlights
include the issuance of the first industry sustainability-linked bond for access to medicines. Our
commitment for full carbon plastic and water neutrality by 2030. We were just ranked today
number two in the access to medicines index that was just announced and continue to see strong
progress in our DNI [ph] and other corporate citizenship efforts. All of this has led to
improvements in our ESG rankings and we continue to work to being a leader in the ESG efforts
across the sector in the years ahead.
So moving to Slide 43, as we noted in our meet the management meeting in November, we're
confident we will grow top and bottom line every year through 2025 and meet external
expectations of 4% growth, reaching $60 billion in sales in 2025 and reaching the consensus
margin of 37.6$ in 2025. And we'll look forward to continuing to demonstrate our progress on this
front as we move through the quarters ahead.
So closing on Slide 44, as you see, we delivered on our strategic and operational commitments in
advance to our strategic priorities in 2020 despite the challenging business environment. Our
third year of sales core operating income and margin improvement, I think, demonstrating the
operational effectiveness of the organization. We are progressing our pipeline deep mid and
late-stage pipeline as well as important milestones in 2020 and as I noted, expect top and
bottom line growth every year through 2025.
So with that, we can open the line for questions. I would ask that if the questioners could limit
themselves to two questions. We do have a number of people in the queue already. Thank you.
Operator?
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) Your first question today comes from the line of `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley
from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Yeah. Thank you very much for taking my questions. It's `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. So just
two. Firstly for Harry. Harry, could you just help us further with the sort of phasing of growth
through the course of the year? So as you said, for Q1, underlying growth roughly flat. Should we
assume a similar thing for Q2, which sort of sets you out for 8% to 9% sales growth in the second
half of the year to reach the guidance? And is there anything you see in terms of phasing of
Sandoz which we may not have as much visibility on which is different to that pattern?
And then secondly, Vas, maybe one for you. With Tislelizumab and the BeiGene deal, obviously
this is exporting innovation out of China for one of the first products to do so. So is there a
potential challenger in terms of exporting the product at a lower price point when it comes to
negotiating pricing agreements with governments globally or is the lower price points in China
potentially something you could use to advantage when it comes to transferring the value into
potential combinations of your next generation assets?. So, thinking of things such as TIM-3,
SHP2, CD73, et cetera. So that will be useful to get some context there.
A - `John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and CMO `Terrific. Thanks, Mark. Harry, on phasing of growth.
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thank you, Mark. Yeah, the last year was quite interesting with the forward buy, if you will,
as healthcare systems strived to get some inventory and also the patient level longer scripts have
been given, so we had this $400 million roughly effect of forward buy, or stocking in quarter one.
And then they destocked in quarter two. That's roughly three points on our quarter. So of course
then quarter two would have the reversed positive effect. In other effects we have in quarter two
is that, Lucentis, basically many patients skipped or doctors skipped one injection. That's now fully
back. So quarter two, we should see some good growth.
And so the first half, I would say, we do expect to be broadly in line with prior year, maybe low
single digit growth as totality I had first declared in quarter one and then some good quarter in
quarter two is the expectation. That -- this is broadly in line with prior year, especially what we
have seen in the last two quarters. Now, if you think about the second half of 2020, quarter three
was zero, quarter four was plus 1, and that was the environment that we expect the next couple
of quarters to be in. So that's why we believe that is a reasonable scenario. Of course it is
unprecedented volatility and therefore we have to plan in different scenarios.
So then, as you say, in the second half, we do expect some very good growth, but again we talk
ranges and have to see how quickly then the healthcare systems open up. So I think that phasing
of half one, half two, and then if you have to do this quarter one stocking, quarter two destocking
of last year, should give good feeling for how to model the quarters. I don't want to get into
Innovative Medicines where the Sandoz I think we get too granular, but you have seen last year
the quarter one, quarter two of both divisions and I think that should be helpful.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Harry. On tislelizumab, broadly speaking, our goal is to maximize the value of this asset.
We have an asset, they can participate in the $50 billion plus PD1 market around the world. We
have the full commercial flexibility to maximize the value of the product. And then our goal of
course is to leverage the medicine across the full combinations possible across Novartis'
oncology portfolio. So we have a number of combination studies already planned and we believe
having a hopefully soon approved PD1 in US and then later also in Europe will enable us to
accelerate our own combination programs across the full range of our portfolio. I can't comment
and it's too soon I think and premature to comment on pricing strategies, et cetera, but I think
once the deal closes and we're further along, we can of course provide more granularity and
Susanne can provide more granularity on our commercial strategies.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Laura Sutcliffe, Analyst, UBS from UBS. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.Hello. Thank you. Two product specific questions, please. Firstly, for Zolgensma in the US, I think
you said at your last results you had 74% newborn coverage and your goal now is I think 80% by
the end of the year, if I heard it right. Does that mean that you think that access is only really
going to expand sort of incrementally in the US this year and sort of in practical terms there won't
be very much extra or is there a more optimistic scenario in there? And then secondly, on
Kesimpta, do you have a rough idea of when you expect that you'll start to see the majority of
sales come from paid-for products rather than free products? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Laura. So on Zolgensma, what we ended up seeing in 2020 was newborn screening
coverage in the US in the high 60s and our goal is to get that into the high 80s in over the course
of 2021. And in that setting, we would expect again Zolgensma to have a very high market share
in states that have newborn screening. Alongside that, we also are working hard to get better --
even further Medicaid coverage with hopefully getting a significant number of additional states
fully putting in place Medicaid program. So we haven't seen this as a significant barrier. We do
think that will ease the ability to get patients started.
I would still say, in general, I mean, the biggest constraint right now in Zolgensma growth is more
of the pandemic than the underlying demand. We see very good dynamics, very solid AAV
testing rates around the world. We see strong interest for governments to put in place
reimbursement programs. But it does take more time in the pandemic and we do see physicians
delaying starts with Zolgensma simply because of the initiation procedures involved with such a
therapy. So, we're hopeful that as the pandemic recedes or healthcare systems stabilize, we will
see an acceleration over the course of the year.
Now turning to Kesimpta, Marie-France?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President, Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
So thank you, Laura. Our bridging program is available for commercial patients for up to 12
months, so we've had a generous program and I can tell you that the majority of Kesimpta
patients are currently on this bridging program. We expect the conversion to paid products with a
share of free goods to decline from 70% to 30% over the course of the year and that will
obviously drive up the sales ramp up. What's important here is that we expect three quarters of
the '21 sales to be realized in the second half of the year. And this of course assumes the
pandemic recovery in line with group guidance.
What I can say in the meantime is that the team is doing an incredible job with the launch. We've
seen access and we've beat our own internal benchmarks on access. We're seeing naive patients
at 17%. We have leading share of attention. We've made sure that we focused on making fast
initiations and making it easy. So we're in good shape. We're building the foundation. We have a
good free goods program and we're hoping to accelerate the sales in the second half of the
year.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thanks, Marie-France. Thanks, Laura. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead. Your line is open.Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Thank you very much. Two questions, please. One, Vas, at the CMD in late November, you
expressed confidence in consensus and I think a lot of investors took that to mean each year
rather than just 2025. Now the '21 guide seems to be somewhat below consensus. So you
obviously had good visibility on the challenges of COVID in late November. So can you just help
people if there is anything that's fundamentally changed since late November or really, it's just
the pattern of growth out to 2025 that potentially was misinterpreted?
And then secondly, on Entresto, in pEF, again just referencing that meet management, you put it
in the $500 million to $1 billion peak sales bucket. Now that you've heard the AdComm
commentary and you've obviously had further interaction with FDA, do you think that peak sales
potential is conservative given the number of patients that you've just laid out in the presentation
today?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Matthew. On the first point, our intention in the meet the management was to
provide confidence over the five-year period and not to provide any sort of annual milestones
with respect to consensus. So certainly if that was misinterpreted, I apologize that we were not
clear enough. I think what we did say is, we plan to consistently grow sales and core operating
income. We do that this year, we grow core operating income ahead of sales. We also have tried
to be consistent that the margin progression will not be at a steady pace, but we will get to the
high 30s as we outlined as well. So I think we're on track. Nothing fundamentally has changed.
And when I -- when we look at that 4% growth after 2025 and the margin at around the 38%, we
feel very good with our ability to achieve that with the portfolio that we have in hand.
Now, with respect to HFpEF, maybe I'll turn it over to Marie-France to give a little bit of the range
of patient numbers and potential.
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President, Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Thank you, Vas. So the AdComm discussion really reinforce the unmet need for Entresto's value
in the treatment of pEF and we see this is specifically in this group of patients with ejection
fraction before normal. But it's difficult at this point to give you a specific range, because that's
going to depend on the addressable patient pool, which will obviously depend on the label. What
I can say is that the total pEF population is about 3 million patients in the US and about 2 million of
them have an ejection fraction below normal. We also know in this market and this is critical, I
referenced it before, that it's important to have guidelines. So our uptake is going to be gradual
as those guidelines are updated and we're going to continue to keep our consensus around $4
billion to $5 billion for total Entresto. So we've previously guided $3 billion to $4 billion on rEF and
we are guiding for $4 billion to $5 billion on rEF and pEF together.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thanks, Marie-France. Thanks, Matthew. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen from Cowen. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen `Thank you. The inclisiran situation in the US is perplexing. Two months ago, Novartis had been
anticipating a year end 2020 approval. Then said the facility review only related to paperwork and
might not be needed. And now the product appears delayed a year in the US. So something
seems not right and I'm wondering what perspective you can add.
The second question, Vas, you said Zolgensma potential was $2 billion. Is that the first time
Novartis has provided that number and what does that include for addressable SMA patient
groups as well as other indications? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Steve. On the inclisiran topic, it's been certainly a interesting journey for us as well. I
mean, this is a situation where we had a facility, routine inspection would have happened in May.
Due to the pandemic, the FDA converted this to a paper-based inspection. The third-party
provided a documentation and the entire interaction has been purely based in writing. There
have been no verbal conversations and these of course have happened in writing with the third-
party facility. Our best estimates over the course of last year were based on our discussions with
the review team and our understanding that there were no safety, efficacy, or CMC related
concerns that were product specific.
We ultimately all learned and we did as well at the CRL that FDA wanted additional
documentation and some additional control changes within this facility. It's notable this facility is
approved in our European Medicines file fully approved and is part of the launch network for the
launch of Leqvio in Europe. We are working as fast as we can with the third-party. Ultimately it's
the third-party's responsibility to provide answers to those questions to the FDA. I think we're
trying to provide realistic guidance given that we're in a pandemic of Q2 to Q3 and then it will be
up to the FDA ultimately to determine if they still want an in-person inspection, when they want to
conduct that inspection and how long they would take to complete that process in the review. I
mean that's -- those are the facts as we know them and we'll continue to work as fast as we can
to get this medicine approved in the US and launch.
I think what's important is what Marie-France and the team mentioned -- which she mentioned. If
anything, this is an opportunity for us to prepare even better for the launch. We don't have to
launch this medicine in the midst of a pandemic. We have the opportunity now to build an even
stronger launch preparedness effort and then hopefully get off to a strong start as soon as the
product is approved.
With respect to Zolgensma, I think historically we've said that we are comfortable with the 2025
consensus, which I believe is in that range of $1.9 billion to $2 billion. And so that's the basis of this
-- the comment that I made. It's based on Zolgensma IV and based on Zolgensma IV in the
current indications of under two years old in the US and up to 22 kilograms outside of the US. As I
mentioned, we continue to work for -- to get AVXS-101 IT fully licensed and we'll keep -- give you
an update once we clear the preclinical topic and finalize the Phase III development program.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Steve. Next question, operator?
OperatorThank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Bank of America. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thanks for taking my question. So, firstly a question on COVID impacts on your '21 guide. So
roughly how many percentage points do you think COVID is negatively impacting revenue growth
in 2021? And on margins, how much wiggle room are you giving yourself that given the likelihood
that you are going to get more COVID savings so as we look into 2022 you are really setting
yourselves up here for quite an easy base for '22 growth? And then secondly, a question on kind
of CANOPY-1. There has been quite a lot of investor discussion around timing of interims. I think
some investors interpreted management comments made recently that there's definitely no
interims in first half of '21. So can you clarify if that's correct, or if you are just saying you are just
not disclosing timing and just leave us guessing if it could happen at any point between now and
the final analysis in Q4? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Graham. On COVID-19 impact, I'll give it to Harry. Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you very much, Graham. So very exact numbers are hard to grab, right, of what is purely
COVID, but as we compare to all our forecast and of course then analytics around it, which we're
doing constantly, I would say, starting with the impact we experienced in 2020, between 2 and 3
percent points of sales growth we would attribute as a negative. On the bottom line, given the
cost discipline as well as some of the natural adverse spend as we have -- as you have seen, we
have made up more than that and could even increase our core operating income guidance.
Now for 2021, half-year effect, we have some little under 2% on the top line what we expect. So
again, it depends very much on quarter two, quarter three goal. We have several scenarios which
we try to put here. One, the guidance is never easy, but I think we have to be a bit careful around
when our patient visits and initiations is back to a pre-COVID normal which we do expect as of
the summer as of Q3.
And then on the bottom line, I just want to mention one thing. As you know that we had significant
savings and under-spend. Of course, we keep our ways of working, saving on travel, and internal
meetings and so on, leveraging digital, but we have basically put that into the base for '21 on the
cost side. And now to assume we can do a significant effort like this again on top of already a
quite a lot of savings in 2020 one has to be careful that we would not under-invest into the
launches and pre-launches. So we clearly see margin improvement, but after 280 basis points
here in constant currencies to - we have to also ensure we have the right level of investments as
we expect the markets will open up for more face-to-face promotion also as of the summer.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Harry. And then on interim guidance maybe rather than giving specifics on CANOPY-1, in
general, we have interim data readouts across our programs. We were no longer disclosing the
timing of those interim readouts. We'd rather have investors focus on the full data readout, full
timing of data readouts based on the powering of these studies, or power of course the readout
at the close of the study. And so we continue to guide to CANOPY-2 in the first half, CANOPY-1 in
the second half, CANOPY-Adjuvant in '22.Thanks, Graham. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Emmanuel Papadakis, Analyst, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Emmanuel Papadakis, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you very much. `Emmanuel Papadakis, Analyst, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank. Couple of questions, please.
Perhaps the first one I could take is on the SHP2. Just if you could give us a bit of clarity in terms of
timing, where we might see that first KRAS combination data. I know you'd been in the clinic since
Q2 last year with partner in the US, Mirati. So just comment on timing and the degree of
confidence you have based on the data you've presumably seen in-house, if that will have a
major role to play in the future targeted lung therapy space.
And then perhaps a second on the iptacopan breakthrough designation in PNH and C3G. Alexion
has been historically quite clear, they don't expect the oral complement assets to challenge C5
agents as the mainstay of therapy rather only in refractory patients or those with breakthrough
hemolysis. So would you disagree with that view? Was the breakthrough designation also
covering naive patients or just the refractory subgroups, for example? And just a bit of thoughts
in terms of the mid-term outlook in that space. And then maybe if I could just tack-on, in C3G,
we've had reasonably promising Phase II data from avacopan in the ACCOLADE study in
December. Company there is talking about potential for filing. That would put you very
significantly behind. So just timings and indeed differentiation on that sort of things as well would
be helpful. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Emmanuel. So on the SHP2, John?
A - `John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and CMO `
Yeah, sure. Thanks for the question, Emmanuel. On the SHP2 inhibitor, we've been working with
Mirati and we have a clinical collaboration in terms of moving forward. We've had a couple of
patients in combination with their KRAS G12C adagrasib. We're beginning to see the initial results.
I think there was one case study that was presented at an oncology conference at the end of the
year last year. We hope to reach proof of concept later this year and move forward based on
those results. So, the exact timing in terms of the Phase II and Phase IIIs will be forthcoming in
probably the mid this time -- middle of this year is how we would move forward.
So, also I think you had a number of questions regarding iptacpan and I believe specifically you
were asking about our approach with iptacpan in PNH and combinations. As you know and just for
the folks online here, iptacpan is our first-in-class complement the Factor B inhibitor that acts
upstream of C3 and C5. And as Alexion has their anti-C5, what we note is that, we're targeting
both intravascular hemolysis which is the C5 inhibitors which target the intravascular, but we also
target the C3. So, we know that about 70% of the patients currently who have PNH are
inadequately controlled with C5 inhibitors. So, we have designed a superiority trial in terms of
moving forward in -- so we do feel like that would be a superiority trial that would give us the
indication to move forward in (inaudible).
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `And then, John, avacopan in C3G, I think that's the C5 inhibitor. So I think they are acting
downstream, if I'm not mistaken.
A - `John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and CMO `
Exactly. That is downstream. And, Emmanuel, I think you had a third question on IgA. If you could
just ask that question, because I didn't write down that specific third question.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
No, John, that was a question on timing of C3G and when we would plan to get to a filing in C3G
for iptacopan.
A - `John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and CMO `
Yeah. So for iptacopan and C3G, what we've noted is that we have a Phase II data read out in the
first half of this year and based on that, we're looking to move forward in potential Phase III
program and potential filing next year -- or 2023.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And I just want to highlight again for iptacopan. Our goal is a first-line indication. I think Susanne
and her team have a strong hematology presence in the US. So we believe we can launch this
product successfully in first-line with respect to PNH and then of course in the full range of
indications in the coming year.
Thank you for the question, Emmanuel. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Parkes, Analyst, Exane BNP from Exane BNP. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Richard Parkes, Analyst, Exane BNP `
Hi, thanks for taking my questions. Two questions. Firstly on Kesimpta. I just wondered, to what
degree the launch and the cost overall is being impacted by patients delaying treatment initiation
due to worries over immunosuppression or lack of -- potential lack of response to COVID
vaccination. I've noticed a couple of recent publications underlying a 2 times increased risk of
severe COVID with B-cell depleted folks. Just wondered if you could comment on that and what
degree that impact on the cost might linger longer term as we come out of the pandemic?
And then secondly on Entresto. Just a clarification, based on the patient populations that you're
pointing to for the preserved ejection fraction indication, it sounds like you think the labeling
discussions will be around kind of the ejection fraction cutoffs rather than necessarily restricting
(inaudible) So just wondered if you could confirm that. And if you are able to quantify what you
think the opportunity for Entresto is in the PARADISE-MI something, that would be really helpful.
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
So, Marie-France, both on Kesimpta and Entresto?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President, Novartis Pharmaceuticals `Yeah. So, on Kesimpta, I think the important thing is that we're really leaving no stone unturned in
this launch. And as I mentioned before, I think we're in pretty good shape on all our metrics to
really bring this product as a first-line DMT to market. We are, however, feeling the effect of the
pandemic and you can see that mostly in the overall ability of our teams to perform their patient
visits. Now, there is some noise in the market around vaccination or delaying hesitation by HCPs
on switching therapies. And that is a reality that we're seeing right now. However, what I can say is
that we are currently running some clinical trials in vaccinations. We also have data in this regard.
Looking at other vaccinations in B-cell therapies and in other biologics, that give us confidence
that we'll be able to make sure that patients and physicians feel comfortable with using Kesimpta
in regardless of COVID and regardless of vaccination. So there are currently a lot of real world
evidence databases that are quite encouraging.
We're looking at this not only for Kesimpta but across the broad range of products, including
Cosentyx as well. The important thing is that patients get treated. And despite the fact that our
selling cycle is a little longer, we're not slowing down. We're continuing to build the foundation for
this product. And I do believe that that you can expect to see the B-cell market grow significantly,
not only because of the work that we're doing, but because this is really bringing a high efficacy
therapy to patients upfront and that could radically change the way that physicians think about
and treat multiple sclerosis patients. So, we've said that we are ready, we just need this market to
bounce back
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And then, Marie-France, on Entresto HFpEF ejection fraction versus male/female and then also
PARADISE-MI potential?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President, Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
So when we go back to what I said before, it really depends on the addressable pool of patients.
We're very encouraged by the conversations that we've heard coming out of the AdComm and
now we're in discussions with FDA around the exact wording of the label. And it will depend on
the patient pool. As I said before, this is a significant population, but it's also an under-diagnosed
population. So we'll have to take things as it comes. It's very encouraging as we have seen from
the PARAGON data that there are groups of patients that do benefit and there is a general
consensus with physicians that this is not an exact science. So having an ejection fraction below
normal and looking at precise rate is not something that is an exact science. So we're working to
make sure that we can bring this product to the largest population possible and where it makes
sense. And on AMI, so we'll obviously have to wait for the size -- for the results of the trials. But
our data tells us there are about 7 million AMI events every year across the globe, and one in four
will develop heart failure. So in the U.S. alone, we're talking about 800,000 patients suffering
from AMI every year, and these might benefit from Entresto. So, we've got strong access for this
product that we've built over the years, we've got a great team. And we hope to bring Entresto
to a large incremental population if the results of the trial are positive.
A - `Samir Shah, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Marie-France. Thanks, Richard. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn, Redburn. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn `
Thanks for taking my questions. Two if I may, please. Firstly, on the newer modalities on
Zolgensma, Vas, you gave some details at the beginning on the countries you expect to add to
reimbursement. Could you tell us the current number of countries, where Zolgensma is
reimbursed?
And on Kymriah, it was a particularly good performance in the fourth quarter against
expectations. Could you just give us some color on any pandemic disruption you've seen there
and the extent to which that's been offset by the expanding footprint for Kymriah that you
discussed?
And then finally a quick question on Tislelizumab. Could you give us the location of the
manufacture for the trial and commercial material that you will be using? Thanks so much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Simon. On Zolgensma, outside of the U.S., of course, we have access in Germany
through the standard access path there. We have reimbursement in Japan, and we're working
very -- and we have a limited reimbursement program right now in a few other European
countries, particularly Italy -- notably Italy. What we hope to be able to accomplish in the first half
of this year is to establish reimbursement pathways in the U.K., Italy, Spain, Canada, and the
number of other markets. Well, see those discussions, as I mentioned, have been a little delayed
due to the pandemic, but we're hopeful we can accelerate them.
And then on top of that, a key priority for us is to enable access in emerging markets, particularly,
Turkey, Brazil, but amongst other emerging markets as well, where there is significant SMA
populations that could -- children who could benefit from Zolgensma. So, we hope to see a
steady pace of getting reimbursement decisions over the coming year.
Kymriah, Susanne?
A - `Susanne Schaffert, President, Novartis Oncology `
Yeah. Thank you, Simon. So we were really pleased with the performance of Kymriah. It is also in
Q4, very strong growth. And this was really driven by double-digit growth across the
geographies, in the U.S., in Europe and Japan, and this despite COVID. I would say, the growth is
partly driven by the expanding in new markets. As I said, there is now 27 markets that have
reimbursement for at least one of the Kymriah indication. We increased manufacturing capacity,
which means that we could serve all the demand. And I have to say, you were asking, if there is
impact from COVID, and yes, there is because some treatments are delayed. But on the other
side, I think, within the market Kymriah has performed exceptionally well. We have gained market
share, and I think this is probably driven by the strong data that we also (inaudible) evidence could
demonstrated efficacy and also safety is even better than in the JULIET trial. So, I think very, very
strong, and I think very safe product that would not require ICU space. And I think this led
probably to the decision by many centers to go for Kymriah.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thank you, Susanne. And then on Tislelizumab manufacturing, the product is produced by
an established third-party, European established third-party. I'm not sure under our agreements
what -- and given the ongoing review what I can and can't disclose. I propose we -- our IR teamsimply get back to you once we do the appropriate checks, but very reputable top-class third-
party manufacturer from based out of Europe.
So next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Kerry Holford, Analyst, Berenberg from Berenberg. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Kerry Holford, Analyst, Berenberg `
Thanks. Yes, `Kerry Holford, Analyst, Berenberg from Berenberg. A couple of questions left for me, please. Firstly on
the BeiGene PD1, I wonder if you can just talk through why you took the decision to bring that on
board, given you have Spartalizumab and what did that asset really offer (inaudible) within just
timing or is it something announced here, the world to be aware of, should we assume
Spartalizumab now that we continue those ongoing combinations that are set as well?
And then secondly, on the Branaplam, you highlight in the slide Phase 2b in due to start in
Huntington's in the second half of the year. I wonder why not any earlier, it is COVID-related
delays, it is additional data preparation, you need to do in the first half. And could that Phase 2b
study be seen at a pivotal trial? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks. Thanks, Kerry. And BeiGene does not change the status of our own PD1, we view
them as complementary. Our own PD1 was primarily focused -- spartalizumab was focused on a
few select indications. That was the strategy. We talked about medicine. We will continue on
those indications. BeiGene has taken a very broad development program across the main PD1
indications without overlap on spartalizumab. And so we're excited to bring that medicine to
market across the full range of indications.
Susanne, anything you want to add on, on this point?
A - `Susanne Schaffert, President, Novartis Oncology `
Yeah, Vas, just to add, I think that really we were impressed by the very broad development
program that BeiGene is running in global programs, having really 15 potentially registration-
enabling trials ongoing. And I believe for us also advantage is that BeiGene has tested
Tislelizumab in very important indications in monotherapy. That's different from spartalizumab,
like non-small cell lung cancer, gastric cancer and so on. And therefore, we are excited to bring
this product to market, ex-China.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And then John, on Branaplam timelines for...
A - `John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and CMO `
Yeah, Branaplam timelines, maybe Kerry just one last item on the last question there is, we also
have a number of targeted therapies that we could use in combination. And if we have an
approved PD1, it actually fits very well in terms of a complementary portfolio. So, I think that's
something that we thought about given timelines as you noted in the question.Specifically on Branaplam, as you highlighted, we will get the Phase 1 results in the first half of this
year. With those results, what we intend to do is take it to the health authorities and have
discussions. And if timelines allow, we certainly will move as quickly as possible. If it's realistic, we
will absolutely have Phase 2b in the first half of this year. But it really depends on the feedback
from the health authorities, because we will have to have discussions both with the FDA as well
as European agencies.
So your last question, or last part of that question was, will this allow for a registrational study in
Phase 2b, that really will also depend on the discussions that we have, and as well as the data
that we'll see in the Phase 1 program. So, I think we'll be able to share more with you as we have
these discussions and when we see the data.
A - `Samir Shah, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, John. Thanks, Kerry. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies from Jefferies. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies `
Hi, yes. Thanks for taking my questions. Firstly, just going to another pipeline asset, Iscalimab.
Wondering if you could just give us a bit of clarity on the path forward for filing of that now. So
your commentary that the regulatory interactions suggest that you can't file (inaudible) base in
kidney transplant, sorry, based on the ongoing study. So what is the planned timeline there? Can
you use liver and kidney together? Or is another trial started or plan to be started, and how do
you think about that? And what sort of endpoints that regulators requiring?
And then secondly, just on the generics, obviously guide was no Sandostatin, Gilenya generics
during the course of this year from Harry, I guess makes sense on Gilenya. I presume we still got
to wait for clarity from the court before you give us timing on that, what the Sandostatin in the
U.S. Can you just give us some clarity on, I guess what sort of research or visibility you have on
that and sort of your confidence that we won't see a U.S. sandostatin LAR generic this year?
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. John on iscalimab.
A - `John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and CMO `
Yeah. Thanks, Peter. On iscalimab, this is our anti-CD40 as you know. We had intentions in moving
forward. And we still have intentions in moving forward with two or three indications, renal
transplant, liver transplant as well as Sjogren's. We took an aggressive clinical strategy given that
there's really been no improvement or change of standard of care for renal transplant in 35 years
of calcineurin inhibitors.
I think we noted previously in discussions, whether that was me, Novartis management or other
cause where we were using a digital endpoint and we were having really good discussions with
the agency on using this aggressive approach using this digital endpoint. At the end of the year
last year, they came back and they noted that they wanted to still use the same endpoint as
previously, which is BPAR, biopsy proven acute rejection.Having that as feedback, we felt like we wanted to ensure that we have a path forward which
would be full Phase 3. So, which would be the same timelines as developing your traditional
transplant drugs, noting that we do feel like there's also potentially faster path through Sjogren's
and we're awaiting the Sjogren's Phase 2b result. And once we have those results, we will be
able to disclose the overall timelines on the children's program which may be faster than the
transplant program.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, John. On Sandostatin LAR generics in the U.S., Susanne?
A - `Susanne Schaffert, President, Novartis Oncology `
Yeah. Peter, I mean, as you know, there is one generic company that has a chief marketing
authorization in Europe, and is doing a very targeted commercialization currently being really
commercialized only in eight markets including Germany, France and U.K. Our guidance for the
U.S. is based on the fact that the same company has application running in the U.S. and survival.
We have no update at this point, but given also the situation with COVID, we expect that this
process could take longer, but there is no concrete update and there is no new information.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Susanne. Just a quick note for Simon from Redburn, we did a quick check, and I can
confirm that the tislelizumab is produced at the Boehringer Ingelheim production site in Shanghai.
So next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs. Please
go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Good afternoon. Thank you. And first of all, Vas, congratulations on the progress you've made on
the ESG front, especially with the access to medicine going up number two. Now kind of two
questions for me, broad picture, please. First, kind of your slide on the BeiGene collaboration
suggest that you're open to a broader strategy collaboration with BeiGene. Maybe I'm
overinterpreting that sentence, but would love to hear kind of what you are envisaging there is
this kind of a corporate collaboration, is it a collaboration from an oncology perspective just for
Novartis to sell stuff into China, wire them for you to import innovation, just anything you can add
to that would be great?
And then secondly, as you look at kind of the bigger picture growth that you are suggesting,
you're comfortable with consensus through 2025 which is a 4% topline growth to my
mathematics consensus has a 7%, 8% EPS growth. If you are successful at delivering that, that
would put you in the middle of or in line with your peer group. Surely your ambitions are bigger
and higher than that. So I was wondering if you might tell us what your kind of ambition are and
where you think you might actually get to? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Keyur, and thanks for the comments as well on ESG. We're very pleased with the
collaboration with BeiGene in China. And I think it fits with our broader goal to double the size of
our Chinese business. As I noted, we are one of the fastest growing multinationals. I noted all theNRDL listing and the upcoming approvals. We continue to explore partnership discussions with a
number of local Chinese players. I think specifically BeiGene, of course, has a broader portfolio,
has a strong oncology presence in China. And, of course, we're looking forward to continuing a
strong collaboration with them, but also with other strong local Chinese players as makes sense
for our portfolio.
So no specific plans or decisions, but I think more just to highlight that our ambitions in China are
significant, and we think we're on the right track with very strong teams across GDV in John's
organization as well as Marie-France and Susanne's commercial teams.
In terms of the mid to long-term ambitions, I think, nothing more to add. Of course, as a CEO
who wants our company to lead and be the leading medicines company in the industry have very
high ambitions. But I think more appropriate me -- for me to keep those ambitions to myself and
continue to simply say we're comfortable, as we stated with our sales and margin outlook for the
consensus out to 2025, and we'll do our best to deliver a world-class pipeline portfolio and
execution across all five of our strategic priorities to get that. And then most important in my
mind is to continue a strong growth trajectory beyond 2025 as well, because we of course play
this for the very long game.
Thanks, Keyur. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Baum from Citi. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Emily Hutchinson, Analyst, Citi `
Hi, there. `Emily Hutchinson, Analyst, Citi from Citi on behalf of Andrew Baum. Just one question, please. On
Cosentyx, can you talk to the anticipated performance in the U.S. in 2021 given our net exclusion
from a couple of national formularies? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Emily. And this is the longest I've ever gone in an IR call in this role without a Cosentyx
question. So Marie-France on Cosentyx.
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President, Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Yeah, I'm very happy to get at least one question on Cosentyx. So the first thing I'd say is, I think
we need to put this in perspective, because our overall access position in the U.S. remains
incredibly strong. In fact, you heard me say that before early line access is a key pillar to our
strategy. However, we're always going to balance access with long-term sustainability for
Cosentyx. And you can expect us to continue to do that.
Now, specifically on the ESI decision, which is what you're referring to, you can obviously expect to
see some impact on volume from this account, and that will also be reflected in our NBRx share.
But now that we're confident in our ability to grow Cosentyx based on our three strategic pillars,
we talked about access, we talked about the competitive, product profile across four indications,
and then very importantly our life cycle management opportunities that could bring up to six
indications in the future.
So, we consistently delivered double-digit growth despite the competition and despite the fact
that there is a lot going on in this market, and you'll see us do that again in 2021. These accessdecisions are short-term decisions. It is not going to change the long-term trajectory for Cosentyx
or our ability to reach 5 billion and beyond.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Marie-France. I'd ask the next set of the analysts to please limit themselves to one
question, just in the interest of time. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim from Guggenheim.
Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim `
Thanks very much. So I just wanted to get an update on Iscalimab and Sjogren's disease. I think
previously you had stated that you were planning for even an interim towards the end of this
year, perhaps even a final look at those data. So just wanted to get an update on Iscalimab and
Sjogren's disease. And maybe if you could just give us a little color on the ability to recruit
patients or continue recruiting patients into that study if recruitment is completed, then obviously
that question is relevant? Thanks.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
John, on Iscalimab.
A - `John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and CMO `
Yes, on Iscalimab, thanks for the question, Seamus. As Vas disclosed earlier, we're really not
disclosing the interims moving forward. So as we're moving forward, the recruitment has been a
little bit slower than we anticipated. We're not fully recruited in the Phase 2b for Iscalimab yet. So
the recruitment continues and those timelines really will depend on when we finish recruitment.
So we'll provide further updates in terms of the exact timing of completion of that trial.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, John. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Vosser, Analyst, JPMorgan from JPMorgan. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Richard Vosser, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. Question on Zolgensma and the intrathecal form. Just could you
give us some help on the design of the pivotal trial? Would you look to broaden the age range
beyond the two to five years, which was the original (inaudible) strong trial design. And given your
-- the thoughts on what's happened to other gene therapies, what do you think the regulators
would need in terms of duration durability to see particularly in, I suppose, Type 2 SMA patients?
Thanks very much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `Yeah. Thanks, Richard. So we are in discussions now with FDA on finalizing that clinical trial design,
and the discussions are very positive both on dose and duration, but we haven't finalized the
design. Hopefully by Q1, we will be able to give you at least a perspective on what the agreed
design of this study is assuming we get off clinical hold later on in the year. So still more to come,
and we'll keep you posted.
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Societe Generale from Societe Generale.
Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Good afternoon. Thank you very much for taking my question. A quick one for Richard on Sandoz.
Could you please share with us, how do you see the dynamic of the non-biosimilar business
because we see understand what is driving this business that for the rest of the portfolio is a little
bit more difficult to understand that. Could you maybe elaborate on this mid-term dynamic of the
non-biosimilar business? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Richard? (inaudible) Richard, are you on the line?
Operator
Richard's line is still connected. Sorry, sir. Richard's line is still connected.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Well, I'll just quickly answer the question. I think the dynamics we see right now, biosimilar's
primary growth in Europe, in Japan, in the U.S., it continues to be a mixed picture of course,
hopeful that with our next wave of assets we can get a much broader set of assets launched in
the U.S. with 15 projects now progressing through our biosimilars portfolio.
In terms of small molecules, the softness we saw was primarily an anti-infectives in Europe as well
as a legacy or the oral solids business we brought back from Aurobindo. What we're hopeful now
is that hopefully we see demand start to pick up again over the course of this year, but much
more important is revitalizing our pipeline and revitalizing our first-to-file engine in the U.S. and
being at market condition in Europe. We think the combination of those two pillars, the biosimilars
pipeline and the first-to-file pipeline should get us to that mid single-digit growth rate over time.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
All right. Next question, operator. I think we have just a few more left.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Naresh Chouhan, Analyst, Intron from Intron. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.Q - `Naresh Chouhan, Analyst, Intron `
Hi there. Thanks for taking my question. And just one on M&A, please. You've had a couple of
large deals, which have resulted in some issues where it could be argued that those assets were
developed internally, the likelihood of those (inaudible) would have been probably much less
likely to have occurred I think in the AveXis date in terms issues like bio CDMO issues. And given
the even the most diligent acquirers would have been probably unlikely to have found those
issues. Does it dim your enthusiasm for future deals of this size, given the risks involved? And I
may just sneak one, does the 60 billion sales number include M&A or is that just organic growth?
Thanks.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Naresh. On the second part just organic growth, we're not including M&A. I think
less about -- I mean, look, I think when we got into new technology areas, which we believe we
need to do in the long run to be a leader to be competitive to drive growth, we are going to
learn new things. I think certainly the fact that we are doing small interfering RNA and novel gene
therapies is part of the reason we have some of the challenges that we do, but I would say, it's
less about that and more, we have enough on our plate with a full internal pipeline. We've done a
number of deals, which we're currently working on fully scaling, we have four platforms. We want
to get to global leadership on. So we have plenty to do. Always opportunistically thinking about
M&A, but that's not in focus at the moment. We want to execute on the strategy and plan we
have ahead of us and that's what we're focused on at the moment. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Emily Field, Analyst, Barclays from Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `Emily Field, Analyst, Barclays `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. I just had a quick question on 2021 and the impact of taking on
Tislelizumab. I was just wondering, if you could give us a sense of the order of magnitude of the
incremental development cost that you'll be taking on with those asset, and is that mostly coming
from R&D and the initiation of these combination trials? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Harry, you want to provide some color on that or clarity on that?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thank you. So it's a bit complicated, but first of all, we do account for the appropriate, if you
will share of development costs of the current registration trials in our core P&L and it's about one
point of core operating income growth, if you will, from a dilution standpoint, but it will not be a
cash expense because the current portfolio is being executed by BeiGene and is part of our
upfront payment. So, it's not a cash expense but an expense, given the structure of the deal, we
always want to ensure that our core results and the core accounting is of the highest quality as
well.
Q - `Emily Field, Analyst, Barclays `
Okay, that's very helpful, thanks.Last question. Operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your last question today comes from the line of `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Well, thank you for taking my follow-up. Vas, just another clarification investor question actually on
Tislelizumab. The question was the 15 registration trials that Susanne mentioned. And being
asked which of those -- which regions, and which indications are you going to be able to follow.
So I guess the question is really reflecting, if you need any additional data in a specific country
such as the US or parts of Europe in any specific indications. Thank you for the follow-up.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Mark. So I'll just quickly take it. We have rights in US, Europe and a number of other
ex-US markets BeiGene keeps rights in parts of Asia and Latin America. The clinical trial portfolio -
- clinical trials currently being conducted are already conducted with support filings in a full range
of indications of second-line lung which they hope to complete this year, first line lung, colorectal
cancer, head and neck. Susanne, are there others that I'm missing.
A - `Susanne Schaffert, President, Novartis Oncology `
No, I think, gastric is also there, yeah, head and neck, you mentioned. And I mean these are
global programs that's probably worth to mention. They enrolling not only Chinese patients, but
also from other geographies, and I think what is important in this setting that the comparator is
strong. And for example, we are excited about the second-line data in non-small cell number.
BeiGene reported very strong over survival data versus Docsys [ph]. So I think, that's how you
have to see this that the clinical programs, we believe is very robust and would allow for filings
ex-US. Sorry, Ex-China.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thank you. That was concrete.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Mark and thanks everyone for joining today's call. We appreciate it -- appreciate your
interest in our company as well as all the investors, appreciate your support of Novartis. And we'll
look forward to keeping you up to speed over the course of this year. Please stay healthy, and
thank you again.
Operator
Thank you. That does conclude our conference for today. Thank you for participating. You may all
disconnect.