Y 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning and good afternoon, and welcome to the Novartis Q4 and Full Year 2021 Results
Release Conference Call and Live Webcast. Please note that during the presentation, all
participants will be in a listen-only mode, and the conference is being recorded. (Operator
instructions) A recording of the conference call, including the Q&A session, will be available on our
website shortly after the call ends. (Operator instructions)
With that, I would like to hand over to Mr.`Samir Shah, Global Head of Investor Relations, Global Head of Investor Relations. Please go
ahead, sir.
`Samir Shah, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, and good morning and good afternoon, everybody. I'd like to thank you for
joining us today on our Q4 2021 and full-year 21 results. The information presented today contains
forward-looking statements that involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other
factors. These may cause actual results to be materially different from any future results,
performance, or achievements, expressed or implied by such statements. For a description of
some of these factors, please refer to the company's Form 20-F, and its most recent quarterlyresults on Form 6-K that respectively were filed with and furnished to the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. With that, I will now hand the call to Vas.
`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Samir, and thank you, everyone for joining today's conference call. Moving to Slide 3,
with me today, I have Harry, Marie-France, Susanne, John, Richard, Karen, and of course, you've
already heard from Samir.
So turning to Slide 5 and before moving into the quarter, I'd like to just make a few overarching
statements about the company, our direction, and our overall profile. We believe we continue to
present an attractive profile for investors, a clear strategy as a focused medicines company
powered by technology and technology platforms, which we believe, will define the future of our
sector, the future of medicine. And attractive growth profile, we're confident in the 4%-plus sales
CAGR that we've guided to, and with the goal to be above peer median beyond 2026, and an
aspiration to be in the high-30s IM margin, which we're well on our way towards, a strong mid and
late stage portfolio with over 20 assets, with significant peak sales potential, platform leadership
which we continue to work towards across multiple defining platforms in the sector, and a
balanced approach to capital allocation, which I'll speak more about in a few slides.
Then moving to Slide 6. We continued to evolve and sharpen our strategy. We are continuing to
look at where to play with a particular focus now on four key therapeutic areas with two additional
therapeutic areas, we're selectively participating in. Focus on four key geographies we will always
evaluating our geographic footprint, and aspiration to transform Sandoz. Five key priorities on
how we win, which we continue to focus on and believe will enable us to outperform the sector
over time. And clear aspiration to be a top-three innovator, be in the high-30s, in terms of our IM
margin, attractive return on invested capital, and continuing to be one of the leaders in material
ESG factors in the biopharmaceutical sector.
Then moving to Slide 7. When you look at our track record on our financial performance, our track
record, particularly in IM, has been solid. IM sales in the last four years have grown 7%. IM core
operating income has grown 13%, which is amongst the highest in the sector. Our IM core margin
has now reached 36.2% and our group free cash flow continues to perform well, and we continue
to look at improving our free cash flow generation as a firm. So, I think this demonstrates that we
are delivering against the goals we set ourselves and we planned to continue to do that in the
years to come.
Then moving to Slide 8, just as a reminder over the coming years we expect to grow that at that
4% or better rate, overcoming the estimated $9 billion of potential generic impact, that we could
have in this period with a series of strong growth drivers, six major assets which we believe will
have multi-billion-dollar potential strong pipeline which would then be added on top leading to
that 4% and of course depending on when the Entresto LoE falls to potential to do even better.
So now turning to Q4 and on Slide 9. In Q4, we delivered strong performance across our value
drivers. Growth was plus 6% in the quarter with IM reaching 7% of sales productivity. Continued,
with group core operating up 12%, IM core operating income up 15%, then demonstrating that
productivity power we have within the company. I'll come back to innovation, we had important
innovation milestones in the quarter and in terms of our progress on ESG, we had improved
scores on multiple ESG metrics, including the MSCI and continued our progress on environment
and human rights.
So focusing in on growth and turning to Slide 10. Our key growth drivers grew 24% in the quartergrowth brand and when `Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals will go through that in a bit more detail and as you
can see, on the right-hand side of the slide, the steady increase we've had, these growth drivers
constituting more and more of our sales, demonstrating the replacement power of our core
sales pace that we have within the company.
Then moving to Slide 11. Across the six key brands that we're hyper focused on. We saw double-
digit growth, Cosentyx growing 17%, Entresto at 40%, Zolgensma at 46% and Kisqali at 36%.
Cosentyx is off to a very strong start on its first full launch year, Marie-France will go through that
in a bit more detail. We saw very strong share gains. And Leqvio is in a build year this year, and we
expect over the course of this year to constantly build momentum towards an inflection point in
the '23 and be on time period. As you can see, and as we highlighted in our R&D Day, these
brands are protected outside of Entresto into the -- late 2020s, are into the 2030, forming a
strong foundation for the company, which we can build on with our pipeline of assets.
Then moving to Slide 12. And when you take a geographic view of the business, we had
consistent growth across US, Europe and China in innovative medicines, driven by different
brands in each case. But in the US, we continued to show consistent growth and we have an
aspiration to become a top-five player in the US over time. In Europe, we remain the largest
pharmaceuticals company, and again are looking forward now to launching Cosentyx and Leqvio
in the markets to continue that growth dynamic.
In China, we have been one of the most consistent growing companies in the high-teens over
recent years. And we are confident that we will get to our goal of over $4 billion in sales in China
by 2025. And we'll go through a little bit more in some of the dynamics in China in quarter four,
where we've already seen a recovery from some of the slowdown we saw in Q4 due to the
buying patterns, the NRDL listings and some of the other considerations that we have, and we'll
speak more about that in the conference call.
Then moving to Slide 13 and turning to innovation. We have multiple milestones in the quarter, the
approvals of Scemblix in the US and Leqvio in the US, importantly from an approval standpoint,
additional submissions, including Lu-PSMA-617 in Europe as well as Alpelisib in PROS, opportunity
for us to take on a very high unmet need in those small indications. Our readouts, multiple
readouts in the quarter, positive data for Cosentyx in hidradenitis suppurativa as well as with IV
administration in psoriatic arthritis, our ligelizumab readout as well positive versus placebo non-
inferior versus Xolair. We continue to evaluate the path forward for ligelizumab.
And YTB and PHE which we will speak more about as well in terms of our novel CAR-T platform.
We began our Phase 3 studies for remibrutinib both in multiple sclerosis and CSU as well as with
ligelizumab food allergy and cold-induced urticaria.
Moving to the next slide, on Slide 14. Just a few words on some of the data readouts, ianalumab
is acid we're very excited about. This is our anti-BAFF receptor, monoclonal antibody, had very
strong data in Sjogren's syndrome in a Phase 2B study, we will be moving into Sjogren's Phase 3
later this year. We are all planning as well shortly to initiate studies in Phase 3 for lupus nephritis.
We're advancing in SLE, as well as an autoimmune hepatitis and expect additional data over the
coming 12 months on these two indications. And we're also looking to progress within B-cell
malignancies, where we believe an anti-BAFF receptor antibody could provide an additional
option for these patients. Taking together, we think this asset the potential to be the quote,
unquote pipeline in a single asset. We look forward to advancing it across a broad range of
indications.I already mentioned the Cosentyx data in HS, which is a high unmet need in area of hidradenitis
suppurativa which is a severe debilitating condition. Good efficacy profile, strong safety profile.
We are keeping the study blinded until the 52-week time point and following that 52-week safety
data we'll then be able to move forward with submissions in the US, submissions in the EU are
already under preparation and we would expect them in the first half. And as I mentioned with
ligelizumab data demonstrated superiority versus placebo, but not superiority versus Xolair. And
we'll provide a further update on this asset, in terms of its progress in CSU, shortly. However, we
do believe there's potential for the medicine in food allergy and CINDU. Given there is no
approved anti-IG therapy -- IGE therapy indication.
Then moving to Slide 15. Just to say a word about the data we recently presented in December
on our T-Charge platform, our next-generation CAR-T platform, which we're excited about given
the potential to provide fast access to therapy, hopefully, improved rates of response and longer
durability as well as attractive-economics in terms of its production and scalability. YTB, which is
indicated for DLBCL, in a small study of 16 patients demonstrated a 73%, CR rate at month three,
and we're looking forward now to reading out the six months data over the coming months. And
we plan to start a Phase 3 trial in DLBCL, this summer for this asset.
And PHE in multiple myeloma, is a BCMA directed CAR-T. Again, early data, but in the first six
patients 100% ORR, what's unique about, this technology platform is its ability to preserve what's
termed as T-cell stemness, the ability of T-cells to regenerate themselves to hopefully lead to
more long and durable responses, if a catch recurrence should occur. Also enables a shortened
time-frame for cells to be out of the patient's body. So many things to be excited about early
days, but we look forward to taking this forward and hopefully over time bringing additional
targets on to the PHE platform.
Then moving to Slide 16. In the quarter as well, we signed four additional BD&L deals to
strengthen the pipeline, we required gyroscope, which has a one-time subretinal Phase 2 gene
therapy that has the potential to transform the care of geographic atrophy. In early data in nine
patients, rather remarkable results that we saw for this one-time administration, we will now have
to see how those results hold up in larger Phase 2 studies, but at least the potential to address a
very large market and a very large patient unmet need with the one-time therapy. We signed an
option agreement with BeiGene for ociperlimab, the Phase 3 TIGIT inhibitor, currently being run
by BeiGene in global Phase 3 studies in solid tumors particularly in lung cancer, ESCC, and cervical
cancer. We are looking forward to working with BeiGene to fully build out this program over the
course of the year, and then as data continues to materialize, we determine that the full option
would be warranted.
We signed our opt-in agreement with Molecular Partners for Ensovibep which has the potential to
be a broad spectrum coronavirus therapeutic for patients in the outpatient setting, as we target
this to fight protein in three separate binding domains, opportunity for bacterial production, so
much higher yield, and much more efficient production, also higher scale. We are on track in our
discussions with the FDA to complete an emergency use authorization filing, and then it will be
determined by a review matter, that the FDA would ultimately provide an approval. We also
continue to be in discussions with the US government, as well as other governments around the
world, regarding this therapeutic, as well as advancing the Phase 3 trials in subcutaneous
formulation. And then lastly, we signed an agreement with UCB for the co-development and co-
commercialization of an alpha-synuclein small molecule inhibitor. Now opportunity to tackle
Parkinson's disease with a small molecule agent against, I think a very exciting target, early data,
early days, but certainly the potential to address a major unmet need.Then turning to Slide 17. Slide 17 and the following slide as well, give you an overview, one kind of
a snapshot of our portfolio in pharmaceuticals, in cardio-renal, things are on track, and you can
see some additional progress we've made on Leqvio outcome studies, Iptacopan and
pelacarsen also remain on track. In neuroscience, as Zolgensma, we've initiated the Phase 3
intrathecal study now. Branaplam has also now initiated in its Phase 2b be study in Huntington's
Disease. I already mentioned remibrutinib and our agent in Parkinson's Disease. And of course,
the immunology portfolio, a number of ongoing projects and programs in Phase 2 and Phase 3,
all largely on track. At the bottom, you'll see the status of our Wild Cards program, later this year
we would have readouts for QBW and UNR, and we continue to also progress the other agents in
that box as well.
Then turning to Slide 18. In oncology, we also are progressing on track in solid tumors and
hematology. The Kisqali NATALEE readout is on track, it's an event-driven readout, but we will
continue to expect it by the end of 2022, if the event rate changes and it flips into '23, we will of
course let markets know. The CANOPY-A study also is on track for a readout in the second half of
this year. Lu-PSMA, importantly, the additional readout for our PSMA-4 study. Again, an event-
driven study, but we're hopeful to have readout on that. In the earlier lines of prostate cancer by
the end of 2022 and the review of Lu-PSMA with the FDA is on track given its action date later this
quarter. And we also progressed JDQ, TNO, look forward to presenting additional data on the
combination we hope over the coming 12 months.
In hematology, the asciminib first-line approval -- third-line approval we've already achieved and
Susanne will speak more about that. And then, I've already mentioned some of the other agents
here, sabatolimab in Phase 3, on track for a PFS readout in the first half of this year and the
various other studies moving towards PFS and OS will come over the coming year as well. So
what going on? We expect additional readouts, particularly in the back half of this year, heading
into 2023.
When you look at Slide 19, you can see the full list of expected events, regulatory decisions,
submissions, mission-enabling readouts, additional readouts and you can also see a large
number of pivotal study starts. These studies will be important for us to continue to advance the
20-plus assets that we've been talking about that will drive growth 2025 and beyond.
So moving to Slide 20. Just to say also a word on Sandoz. You saw Sandoz stabilizing in quarter
four, you saw sales growth plus 2% in the quarter as well as biopharma growing 7% in constant
currencies. When we think about the outlook for 2022, we forecast sales to be broadly in line and
Harry will talk a little bit more about the specifics on the guidance. We're assuming here that
cough and cold reverts to pre-COVID levels. Then biosimilars continues to perform particularly in
Europe where we have a very strong market position, but we also face continued gross margin
headwinds, due to the price erosion and an unfavorable mix particularly in the US, which we
expect to fully bottomed out in this year and start to move towards a growth dynamic in the back
half of next year.
Our biosimilars launches, however continued to be on track and we're expecting these launches
to drive material growth in the back half of 2023 into 2024 and beyond, with our $80 billion of
originator sales, a large opportunity. We have 15 plus assets somewhere in development, so that
will be absolutely critical to move Sandoz into a strong growth dynamic looking ahead.
Moving to Slide 21, a word on our capital allocation strategy, we remain disciplined and
shareholder focused and really trying to balance the four elements of our strategy. This is a shift
we're not ranking them, but rather really showing them as a balanced approach. We invest in
organic business; you can see $9 billion in R&D over $1 billion in capital investments. We alsocontinue to look at value-creating bolt-ons. We've done around $30 billion of acquisitions since
2018. And we also returned value to shareholders through our annual dividend where we
proposed this year to increase by 3% Swiss franc and 6% US dollars. And as announced in the
quarter four we continue to also return our capital to shareholders where appropriate, share
buybacks of 2.8 billion were executed in 2021. And we're on track with respect to the $15 billion
share buyback program that we announced in the back half of last year, which we expect given
the nature of the Swiss second-line -- second trading line cancellations take us, until the end of
2023 to fully complete.
So moving to Slide 22. From an ESG standpoint, we continued to make important progress in Sub-
Saharan Africa with respect to our human rights commitments, in terms of disability, inclusion, our
environmental targets are on track with 34% Scope 1 and 2 reductions, excluding offset waste
disposal, also reduced and on tracked to be at half by 2025. All on track towards our goal of
being carbon-neutral across scopes 1, 2, 3 by 2030 and fully net-zero by 2040 and sooner -- as
soon as possible is our aspiration. And this is all add to improved scores from MSCI. We are no
longer having an entity a controversy red flag. Ranked number two in the Access to Medicine
Index and also favorably ranked in the S&P Global ESG rating amongst other ratings that we've
had over the course of the year.
So in closing on Slide 23. Just want to highlight the priorities for the company over the course of
this year. The successful launches of Leqvio, Kesimpta, Lu-PSMA, which we believe has the
potential to be a very significant assets and Scemblix where again we have the opportunity to
build on the third line approval and hopefully move into earlier lines of therapy, maintain the
growth momentum on our six multi-billion-dollar assets that assets that we believe will drive the
company's base level of growth over the coming years, progressing the pipeline of 20-plus
potential significant sales assets with the opportunity that be approved by 2026, optimize our
portfolio with the Sandoz review with a plan to have this updated by the end of 2020, and remain
disciplined and thoughtful on our BD and M&A to build the growth profile of the company, but
also ensure attractive returns for our shareholders, deliver those returns through our productivity
initiatives, especially in manufacturing and business services as we move towards the high-30s in
our margins as well as an attractive return on invested capital profile, and continue to reinforce
the foundations of a great company, a strong culture that drives performance, leadership in data
science to drive value across the business, and being an ESG leader.
So, thank you very much. And with that. I'll hand it over to Marie-France.
`Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
So good morning, good afternoon to all. On Slide 25, I'm pleased to share the quarter four
results of the pharma division with you. Our sales grew 9% quarter. As you know we're fully
focused on our growth drivers and launches and the rejuvenation of our portfolio. You can you
can expect us to continue to drive this shift in 2022 and beyond.
So moving on to Slide 26. Cosentyx delivered 1.2 billion in revenues and grew 13% in the quarter.
We've seen strong demand for Cosentyx across geographies. We did see some impact in China,
due to the year-end budget caps; however, we've already seen a strong rebound in Q1. Our life
cycle program is starting to deliver with the positive readout for hidradenitis suppurativa in IDE,
and will start to be a growth driver in 2023. If we look to 2022, our focus is on volume growth in all
geographies, especially China. In the US, our asset position is stable, and we plan to grow with
the market. As we will not benefit from the price favorability we saw last year, volume growth for
us is key. You can expect to see the typical quarter-over-quarter decline in Q1, followed by acontinued double-digit growth for the full-year, fully on track to deliver on our $7 billion plus
guidance.
If I move on to Slide 27, Entresto grew 34% in the quarter, finishing the year at 3.5 billion in sales.
We continue to pull through the first-line recommendations in the US and Europe. And we
continue to have good traction with the expanded label in the US, which as you know includes five
out of six patients with heart failure. In China, we renewed our NRDL listing for heart failure, and
we are thrilled that hypertension is now listed. The dip that you see in the XUS sales column is for
China, and that is because of the wholesaler compensation for stock, given our new price. But
again, this is on the back of very good news. Now that we have the listing, we also have access to
a much broader population. And if you think about the fact that only 15% of patients in China or
hypertensive patients from China are well controlled versus for example 52 in the US, you can
start to see the potential. For 2022, we are absolutely confident we can maintain and trust those
momentum in the US and Europe, driving broader and earlier adoption, but we're also very
excited about our opportunities in Asia.
If I move on to Slide 28. We're now in our third year in the marketplace with Zolgensma and we've
treated 1,800 babies. Because this is a one-time therapy, you will continue to see volatility in the
quarters as new markets gain access as we add the bolus and then move on to an incident
population. Our focus is clear. We want to maintain a leading position in the US focusing on the
incident population. We want to accelerate newborn screening. We know it's really important to
treat SMA as early as possible. And therefore our plan is to double the rate of newborn screening
in Europe. And three, we want to continue on our plans for geographic expansion into emerging
markets. In parallel, we're progressing with our IV formulation; we're laying the foundation to
bring Zolgensma to patients across the full SMA spectrum. Our STEER study has just opened and
just recruited its first patient. And we're also conducting a study in pre-treated patients, who may
benefit from Zolgensma's one-time treatment.
If I move on to Slide 29 with Kesimpta, we finished the year strong with 147 million sales in Q4. We
maintained a high share of voice. We now reach a critical mass with multiple sclerosis specialists.
We continue to onboard new patients and the majority of those patients continue to be in first
line, first switch. There is no question that B-cell therapy is now the gold standard in efficacy. We
also know that there have been questions on safety in context of COVID. And this has been a
priority for us to provide relevant answers to our customers with the reassuring vaccination data,
that we have, we are building additional confidence in Kesimptas' profile and providing further
important clinical differentiation in the marketplace. As we drive additional uptake in the US and
continue to execute on our launches across the world, you can expect us to continue to do
everything to make this Kesimpta story even better.
Moving on to Slide 30. As you know we've received FDA approval in December for Leqvio and
we've been in the field for two weeks. On the system side, we're implementing our strategy, our
focus right now is to support the P&T reviews, and the implementation of acquisition or referral
processes. We've started onboarding alternative injection centers and we continue to broaden
our network. We've also filed for our permanent J-Code, as we planned. On the healthcare
professional side, we're educating on Leqvio's clinical profile, the twice-yearly dosing and the
breadth of the label. We are really excited about the enthusiasm that we're getting from the
market on the clinical aspects, but also seeing the high willingness of physicians to discuss the
non-clinical support options.
As was said before the first half of the year will be about laying the foundation to drive the
uptake in second half of the year and beyond, when some of the larger system should be ready
for buy and build, and of course, when our permanent J-Code should be issued. On a separatenote, we've also made significant progress with the NHS on the implementation plan and are
awaiting the list on the moratorium of all non-COVID related communication and initiatives to
begin the rollout of the agreement.
So in summary on Slide 31. 2021 was a strong year for pharma. I want to thank the teams for the
focus, the bold thinking, and the diligence around customer obsession and market metrics to
deliver exquisite execution. You will see us continue to build on that strong foundation in 2022
with the right investment, not only in our products but also in new partnerships, customer
engagement and digital tools.
So, thank you very much, and now let me pass it on to Susanne.
`Susanne Schaffert, President of Novartis Oncology `
Thank you, Marie-France. And moving to oncology on Slide 33. You see that the oncology
business grew 4% in 2021, reaching 15.5 billion, with our growth drivers increasing 17% versus prior
year. And also Q4 was a solid quarter, growing 3%. As you see, the growth was driven by
continued double-digit growth of brands like Kisqali, Promacta/Revolade, Tafinlar and Mekinist,
and Jakavi. We are very pleased to see continued strong portfolio rejuvenation with these growth
drivers now representing 54% of the total portfolio.
Moving to Slide 34. Kisqali, we saw very strong performance, growth of 58% in Q4, reaching now
285 million in sales. We saw increased demand across all regions as a reflection of further
penetration in the first-line postmenopausal segment. We continue to gain share in the US with
NBRx in the metastatic setting reaching 17% in November 21. And in the international markets we
had an impressive growth of 90%, mostly driven by Europe, where we see sustained leadership
in premenopausal setting that also increased penetration in the largest postmenopausal setting.
With the MONALEESA-2 data presented at ASMO, Kisqali demonstrated the longest median
overall survival so far in advanced breast cancer and we now have OS data across all eligible
patient populations. And this is why Kisqali is also the only CDK4 inhibitor highlighted in the US
NCCN guidelines to demonstrate OS benefit in first line. So we are moving forward with
confidence in Kisqali, and in collaboration with the SOLTI study group. We have initiated the Phase
3 HARMONIA trial to evaluate Kisqali versus ribociclib in advanced breast cancer.
In addition, we continued our geographical expansion of Kisqali with reimbursement achievement
in Brazil and regulatory submission in China. As you know our key development program is the
NATALEE trial, studying Kisqali in adjuvant setting for both high and intermediate risk patients. And
this study has fully recruited and as Vas mentioned, the readout is expected towards end of
2022. So overall we are very pleased with the Kisqali, performance and expect continued
momentum.
On Slide 35. You see three of our blockbusters, Tafinlar-Mekinist, Promacta or Revolade and
Jakavi. These brands continue to deliver double-digit growth driven by strong demand across
regions. Tafinlar-Mekinist was growing 14% with strong contribution from Europe. And just to
remind ourselves this is the first and only targeted therapy to achieve both five-year overall
survival in metastatic as well as adjuvant. And Tafinlar-Mekinist continues to sustain leadership in
metastatic melanoma as the most used worldwide targeted therapy in the setting. Moving
forward we expect growth will primarily come from adjuvant melanoma and non-small cell lung
cancer indication as well as the increased uptake in China. Also Promacta/Revolade with very
strong growth with 12% and we saw this growth across all regions with share gains supported by
the sustained efficacy and oral administration convenient. And we expect continued growth in ITP
and SAA. And finally, Jakavi reaching 12% growth, this growth was driven by earlier usage inmyelofibrosis and polycythemia vera. And we continue with our geographical on graft-versus-host
disease launches and we expect further uptake there as well.
So moving to Slide 36. Last Quarter as Vas mentioned, we have launched Scemblix in the US. this
is a unique STAMP inhibitor with superior clinical profile in late line CML, that could potentially
change the standard of care. And you see that Scemblix has a very strong clinical profile. This has
two-fold improved in major molecular response and the 3 times reduction and discontinuation
due to adverse event. So looking at the patient potential for Scemblix, we instated approximately
25% to 30% of CML patients, maybe eligible within the approved Scemblix label and this includes
patient experience resistance or intolerance with previously treated two or more TKIs as well as
patient with the T-359 mutation. And as you know we have started the first-line registrational trial
with filing expected first half of 2025. So leveraging decades of experience in CML Scemblix is off
to a solid start in the US with leading share of voice already within the first months. And this is
complemented by a robust digital footprint with over 20,000 users and nearly 60,000 patients,
website visits. We have over 50 patients enrolled in our patient assistant program and have
above 150 patients included in our managed access program. Scemblix is also already included in
the NCCN guidelines. So we are also pursuing global commercialization, and approvals in Europe
and Japan remain on track for 2021.
Moving to Slide 37 with our radioligand therapy lutetium-PSMA-617, we have another exciting
launch upcoming. Lutetium-PSMA has the potential to address the high unmet need in advanced
metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. And results of the Phase 3 VISION trial
demonstrated improved radiographic PSS in overall survival. On the commercial side, we're
moving forward with launch preparations. We are targeting 435 treatment sites across the US
and Europe. We are leveraging, our Lutathera footprint, combined with an incremental field force,
dedicated to prostate cancer. In the US, that field force is fully recruited and trained and the same
is true for Europe where we started to building the field force. We don't foresee any hospital
capacity constraint for the launch in this VISION population. And on the development side, we
currently have two ongoing Phase 3 studies in the pre-taxane and the hormone-sensitive setting
with the potential to significantly expand the eligible population by up to 4 times.
So in conclusion, moving to Slide 30, I would like to conclude with three important messages.
First, in 2021, we continued to see solid execution on growth brands and portfolio rejuvenation
with sales from our growth drivers increasing 70% versus prior. With Kisqali, one of our key brand;
we continued to gain share in the CDK4/6 class, and we have strong OS data in metastatic
setting, and we are looking forward to the NATALEE readout in adjuvant and we keep our focus
on launch executions with Scemblix and with Lu-PSMA preparation and advancing our next wave
of assets.
And with that, I'm handing over to Harry.
`Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thank you very much, Susanne. Good morning, and good afternoon everybody. So I'm now
going to walk you through some of the financials for the fourth quarter and the full year as well as
provide with you our 2022 guidance. As always, my comments refer to growth rates in constant
currencies, unless noted otherwise.
Turning to Slide 40, here we compare briefly our results with our latest 2021 guidance as you can
see overall, our full year results were in line with guidance with particularly strong innovative
medicines performance, innovative medicines grew top line by 6% and the bottom line even
double-digit by 10%. We are that despite the challenging business environment during the year,We finished the year on strong quarter with sales and core operating income growing 6% and
12%, respectively and this result in full year performance of 4% and 6% growth on top and bottom
line. Net income of 24 billion benefited of course from the onetime gain from the Roche share
divestment of 14.6 billion. But even if you exclude that effect, the seated in the lower line before
load net income; net income grew a healthy 15% mainly due to higher sales and productivity
gains. Core EPS grew 7% mainly from a strong core operating income growth, and was slightly
impacted by the Roche divestment in quarter four. Free cash flow was up 14%, reaching 13.3
billion and I will go a bit into more details about free cash flow, a little later. Before we move on,
just wanted to highlight that quarter four sales growth includes a positive 1% impact from a small
reclassification effect of contract manufacturing from other revenues to sales. Slide 42, please.
This slide shows you the performance by the vision for the quarter and full-year. Clearly innovative
medicines had a strong year, driven by our key growth drivers Entresto, Cosentyx, Zolgensma
and the key oncology brands which also Marie-France and Susanne laid out. The innovative
medicine sales 46%, bottom line, 10% and margins reaching 36.2% points up from 32% in 2018,
so an increase over the three-year period of 420 basis points. For the quarter, innovative
medicines sales grew 7%, and core operating income 15%. As Vas mentioned, Sandoz is still
facing some challenges mainly from pricing pressures, especially in the US and COVID related
demand impact. Although quarter four showed signs of stabilization.
Now, let's turn to Slide 43. Free cash flow of the year was mainly driven by the high operating
income and was up 14% to $13.3 billion. There were also lower payments from legal matters in
2021, compared to what we had in 2020. This was offset as you can see by the upfront payment
for in-licensing of tislelizumab from BeiGene.
On the next slide. I'm very pleased to announce that we will propose our 25th consecutive
dividend increase to CHF3.10 per share from CHF3.00 last year. This is an increase of 3.3% in
Swiss franc and 6% in US dollars with our dividend reaching 4%. And fully aligned with our dividend
policy of dividend increases every year in Swiss francs.
Now, turning to Slide 45. Where we sum up our guidance on top and bottom line, with the
divisions we expect another year of innovative medicines sales, growing mid-single-digits and
core operating income to grow mid- to high-single digits ahead of sales. The expected innovative
medicines core margin increase will be driven by the expected good top-line momentum and
continuation of our productivity programs.
For Sandoz, we expect the top line to be broadly in line with prior year and core operating
income to decline low- to mid-single digit, mainly driven by gross margin pressures due to pricing
and product mix. Also on the top line, it's also due to the fact that we do not expect many
launches for Sandoz in 2022. With respect to the entire group, we expect both the top and the
bottom line to grow mid-single digit. The key assumption for this guide, as you can see in the
bottom box here, is that we are continuing to return to normal global health-care systems,
including prescription dynamics and that no Sandostatin LAR generics would enter in the US in
2022.
On Slide 46, I would like to add some perspective on other key financial elements of our
expected core net income performance. As you can see, we expect core net financial results to
be brought in line versus 2021. And the 2022 core tax rate is expected to be in the range of 17%
to 17.5%. This is higher than the 16% core tax range -- tax rate range we experienced over the last
couple of years. However, as you can see approximately 1 percent point of this increase is due to
the mathematical impact of the Roche divestment .And there may also be a slight increase due
to geographical profit mix changes, which we'll monitor throughout the year.Finally, on Slide 47. For modeling purposes, we thought it would be very helpful to you, to go into
some details regarding the currency impact, especially given the recent appreciation of the US
dollar. As you saw in quarter four, currency had a negative impact of 2% on net sales, and
negative 3% point impact on core operating income. As the US dollar further strengthened, this
currency effect of course also impacted the sales of our key growth drivers, XUS in quarter four. If
late January rates prevail for the remainder of 2022, we would expect fully impact of currencies
on top line to be a negative 3 percent points and then bottom line negative 4 percent points. In
quarter one, the impacts are a bit more pronounced and sales would be negative 4 and bottom
line negative 5 points. As currency rates are quite volatile, as for now, we update this impact
estimate every month on our website. And with this, I hand it over back to Vas.
`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Terrific. Thank you, Harry. So moving to Slide 49 and briefly in closing. In 2021, we delivered on our
goal of mid-single -- our guidance of mid-single-digit top line growth, margin expansion, strong
free cash flow. We remain confident in our end market growth drivers, six major brands that are
performing well across geographies, supporting our confidence in our outlook of 4%-plus sales
CAGR for 2026. We've continued to deliver important innovation milestones across the portfolio
and will work over the coming 12 to 24 months to deliver important milestones on our 20-plus key
assets. And we remain balanced in our capital allocation, continuing to invest in innovation,
alongside returning capital to our shareholders.
And with that, operator, we can open the line for questions. I would ask that each questioner will
limit themselves to one question, and we'll try to go multiple times through the round as far as
we can in the allotted time. Thank you.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. Thank you very much, sir. (Operator Instructions) Your first question today comes from
the line of `Graham Parry, Bank of America, Bank of America. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Graham Parry, Bank of America `
Great. Thanks for taking my question. So, just regarding the Sandoz review, obviously you're
looking there, you're seeing all options still on the table despite there being some recent
speculation again, about there being some private equity interest. When you're considering a
sale versus spin, versus keeping the business, how much consideration are you giving to what
multiple? Do you think, the market would value Sandoz at versus what an acquirer might view it
at?
And secondly in the scenario of sale, what uses of cash would you consider, given that you're
already doing a large buyback. So with the intent there to be, to return capital to investors or to
put it back into the business through M&A and organic investment. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Graham for the question. Let me start with where we are on the process. And I think as
we guided at the end of last year, the first part of this year is really focused on carving out the
financials for Sandoz, being clear on the parameter. And then being able to provide potential
counterparties, with the relevant information for them to make concrete formal offers, whetherthose are private equity or other companies. Alongside that evaluate the options for a potential
spin of the business and lastly, a potential retention of the business.
We are going through the work right now of evaluating those different options, and I expect that
to take us to the middle of this year. Before that we can take the next steps and hopefully come
to a decision in the second half of the year. In terms of considerations, we're of course, always
looking at a few things One, how to make Sandoz, as successful as possible with -- consistent
with the aspiration for Sandoz to become the leading generics company in the world. Second
what is most value creating and also tax-efficient for our shareholders.
We I think have proven with the Alcon spin that we're able to think through those considerations
in a way that is beneficial to the shareholder's interest and really making sure, we're thinking
about these things in a shareholder-friendly way. And I think it's really premature for us to
speculate, if there were "sale" how we would use the cash. And I think we're still a long ways
away from that point in time. And we would of course, be able to determine that, at that point in
time, we would stay consistent with the balanced capital allocation approach, which I outlined
earlier, thinking through investing in the business versus returning value to shareholders.
So, thanks for the question, Graham. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Parkes, BNP Paribas, BNP Paribas. Please go
ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Richard Parkes, BNP Paribas `
Hi. Thanks very much for taking my question. I've got a question on capital allocation. I remember
on the last call you mentioned that you were engaging with investors around the sort of balance
of returning the capital from the Roche stakes are between sort of buybacks and M&A. And I just
wondered how your thoughts on M&A and business development had evolved based on that
feedback. I'm just wondering if, more meaningful bolt-ons have moved up or down the priority list
based on that feedback. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thank you. Thank you, Richard. So, I think not much more to say on the feedback. I mean what
I can -- I think we can say is that, we know that given the strong cash flow that we generate at
Novartis, we have the ability to continue to do bolt-on acquisitions, like we've done in the past
when we find attractive assets that fit with our therapeutic area goals, and our platform goals.
As we evaluated the situation over the course of December, it became clear that; at this point in
time, we could return significant capital to shareholders through the buyback, while maintaining
the ability to also do attractive, accretive M&A, if it should materialize.
So right now, our focus is of course, first and foremost in driving the business, and then evaluating
various options that are out there over time, but of course being very patient to ensure, we only
do deals where we're confident that we can generate significant returns for the company, and
also fit with our strategic priorities.
So I would say there's nothing eminent, and we're going to continue to evaluate the options and
watch how evaluations move in the sector, and then look for opportunity as they arise. We're
quite happy to continue to do deals, like the four deals that we've done in the quarter four, thatenabled us to acquire for mid stage and early stage assets with some various deal structures, we
think at attractive financial terms.
Harry, anything else you wanted to add on that?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
No, I think one element to see I think on the feedback on the $15 billion share buyback has been
quite positive. And also maybe some analysts, investors are not very familiar with the Swiss
system, where we have to buy these on the second line for cancellation, and that takes then until
the middle through the second half of next year, so '23. Unlike, like, U.S. situations, where can do
this quite quickly.
So as we see that can monitor the market, we do as much as we can on this $15 billion share
buyback as we go forward. So there's also a bit of time to continue to think about the different
ways of capital allocation. And then of course, we have to see, as Vas mentioned, would there be
great opportunistic M&A opportunity here. And otherwise, as we laid out to the capital allocation
priorities, that's how we're going to allocate continuously our capital.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, harry. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Laura Sutcliffe, UBS from UBS. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Laura Sutcliffe, UBS `
Hello. Thanks. A question on Leqvio, please. You talked a lot about the hard work you've done in
removing access in reimbursement hurdles, in the U.S. But do you think you need any specific
guideline inclusions or recommendations to start driving use there? And is there the possibility of
possibility of, sort of, trying to protocolize this in any way in your centers of interest to get sales
going? Thanks.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Laura. Marie-France?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Yeah. So the first thing I'd say is that, LDL lowering is already widespread across the guidelines,
and we already have Class 1A in Europe. So when you ask your question, the intent philosophically
of us going or concentrating on the 200 systems of care, is exactly that, it's around; how do you
protocolize the use or the management of lipid-lowering within the system. So how that looks like
concretely will probably depend system by system.
But as you know, we've just launched a cooperation with the AHA, which is around, it's not
necessarily specific to Leqvio, but it is around, how do you better monitor and control cholesterol
lowering for patient. So the intent is there. It's about making sure that we can identify the care
pathways. And then also support the centers in how they can specifically identify patients to come
in when their LDL is not at the level that it should be or not at goal.So, you're absolutely right that's the intent, that's the way we're looking at it. Locally, it's going to
look very different country by country, system by system, but that's the goal, and ultimately we'll
change the landscape in ASCVD, because today even though there are medicines on the
marketplace, patients are not being treated and they're not at goal and therefore you see 18
million deaths worldwide because of ASCVD.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Marie-France. Thanks, Laura. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Andrew Baum, Citi from Citi. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Citi `
Many thanks. Could you just outline for us the differences between this 15,000 VICTORIAN-2-P
and 3 ORION-4 trial for Leqvio, assuming this is just a sort of marketing based Phase 3 to expand
clinician experience, but maybe admit something different about the patient population,
(inaudible) And maybe if you have a second perhaps, you could comment on the ligelizumab
surprise, given how we're above the pre-large Phase 2b data was, if this the Zola arm did better
than expected. If you have any insights, it'd be great to hear. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Andrew. John?
A - `John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and Chief Medical Officer `
Yeah. Sure. Thanks for the question, Andrew. Specifically on Leqvio, as you know, the study of
ORION-4, which is being conducted in the UK, is more of a population based approach to looking
at secondary prevention. And that is mostly in the UK, with some patients in the U.S. The B2P is a
broader patient population, where we're growing globally, not only in the U.S. but across major
geographies throughout the world.
So -- and we know that there are differences in practice patterns throughout the world, so what
we intend to do is ensure, we follow these patients, and make sure that we have a clear
understanding of the treatment for secondary prevention for Leqvio. So those are the
approaches that were taken difference of ORION-4 versus Leqvio.
And back on your question for Ligelizumab and what we've seen, we started the Phase 3 study
on PEARL 1 and PEARL 2 which were designed against the active comparator, which was
omalizumab. These studies were based on primary endpoints that we saw through our Phase 2B
study, and those -- that Phase 2B study had 380 patients and 80 patients per arm.
And as we actually demonstrated or showed during the fourth quarter, as we shared at the R&D
Day, we did achieve a primary endpoint of superiority versus placebo, but we did not
demonstrate superiority versus omalizumab. We're currently reviewing that data, and we're
evaluating the best potential for moving that forward. And as Vas stated earlier, we're advancing
the studies in CINDU and food allergy, and there continuing as planned.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `And maybe, Andrew just one additional points to John's comments, to your specific point. We did
see omalizumab perform better in the Phase 3 study versus Phase 2 study. So that is a leading
hypothesis we have, but I think, still more work to do to fully ascertain why we saw the difference
between the Phase 2b in the New England Journal, and the result that we saw in Phase 3. So as
soon as we have a better understanding we'll of course share it. In the meantime ligelizumab
continue to develop it in food allergy and CINDU, given the lack of an IgE drug for those
indications.
Thanks, Andrew. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Simon Baker, Redburn from Redburn. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Simon Baker, Redburn `
Thank you for taking my question. It's a question on the impact of COVID, specifically two -- in
three areas for you. Firstly, could you give us an update on the dynamic MS market versus
Kesimpta and also recruitment into the Phase 3, remibrutinib study that started in fourth quarter.
And also so Leqvio in the UK, Marie-France, you mentioned, the NHS non-COVID block is about to
be released. But I just wondered how the significant backlogs within the UK healthcare system,
could potentially impact the rate at which you will accrue the target number of patients over the
next few years? Thanks so much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Simon. So, first Marie-France on the MS market and Leqvio, NHS.
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Yes. So maybe I'll just start off by saying that, we're all getting used to COVID. And I think, not
only the industry, but also healthcare systems, in general we're sort of learning to become more
and more agile. But it is true that there are areas that are disproportionately impacted, and
clearly the dynamic multiple sclerosis market, if you look at it, it is still below pre-COVID levels.
And we are also seeing, as you said a delay in our Leqvio launch in the UK, given this moratorium
on anything that's not COVID related, so ultimately, yes, it's true, I don't think for Cosentyx, it
slowed us down.
I can already say, for example, that in the beginning of the year, we already have all of our
patients, we verified. We've tried as much as possible be out there with physicians, our share of
voice is high, we have absolutely doubled down on patient services, to make sure that patients
are not left out in the cold in this whole sort of pandemic era. So I do think it's almost allowed us
to basically rethink some of the way that we approach the market and do better. However, it's a
clear reality on certain areas and not only those.
For the UK, as I said, this morning, it hasn't really slowed us down on the implementation. I mean,
we've been working really diligently in the background on things that we would have had to do
anyway, right? So NHS guidelines, making sure that the communication is ready to go out, looking
at, for example, the patient digital identification. NHS guidelines have already been written. So, I
think when this moratorium is lifted, and of course, remember that this is all in the primary care
sector. So, our entire plan for the NHS is centered around the primary care physician and that's
where the moratorium is.So we're waiting for that to be lifted but I do want to reassure the audience that we're not at a
standstill, we're doing the things that we would have to do anyway, and laying the groundwork for
the future. And with -- just maybe a last word on Cosentyx we're bullish on our ability to double
sales in the U.S.
We've got approval in 63 countries around the world, we're working through reimbursement, and
so we believe it's going to be a good year for Cosentyx, despite the local, let's say lockdowns or
pandemic influence that we see across the globe.
Q - `Simon Baker, Redburn `
And then John, remibrutinib recruitment any insight yet?
A - `John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and Chief Medical Officer `
Absolutely. Thanks for the question, Simon. The MS space is one that we know very well from our
experience and the studies that we conducted across Gilenya, Mayzent, as well as Kesimpta. We
announced earlier in the year in 2021 that we're advancing with remibrutinib which is our selective
molecule BTK inhibitor in this space. We had discussions in the middle of the year to late in the
year with regulatory authorities. And we've already started recruiting at the end of the year, and
we know the space well, we're confident that we can recruit in the MS space. And that we're
excited to continue to fulfill the criteria in terms of advancing the recruitment for the MS patients
for remibrutinib.
Q - `Simon Baker, Redburn `
Thanks a lot.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, John. Thanks, Simon. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Tim Anderson of Wolfe Research. Please
go ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Richard Wagner, Wolfe Research `
Yes, thank you for taking my question. It's `Richard Wagner, Wolfe Research, Wolfe research for Tim Anderson. My
question on M&A. Whether you can say definitively that you won't do larger M&A, meaning
something that would be say $30 billion or larger. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks for the question, Richard. We don't have plans to do "larger M&A." Hard to sign up
for specific thresholds, given the dynamics in the market but our focus is not larger M&A, our
focus is bolt-on -- bolt-on deals. Most of the deals we've done, as I mentioned earlier have been
sub $1 billion upfront with payouts for the total deal value of less than $2 billion in recent times,
including the four deals that we recently signed. And we continue to focus our energies there.
We look at larger assets, valuations are stretched, expectations remain high, harder to make the
numbers work, to create value for shareholders, and an attractive profile for Novartis, where we
continue to have those what's called the larger bolt-on deals. And then beyond that we are notSo next question, operator? Thank you Richard.
Operator
Thank you, Richard. Thank you. Your next comes from the line of `Kerry Holford, Berenberg from Berenberg.
Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Kerry Holford, Berenberg `
Thank you very much. A question please on Sandoz. In your presentation, having you speaking of
stabilization in Q4. But 2022 guidance from this division is somewhat disappointing. I wonder, if
you can walk us through the drivers of your guidance, operating profit decline this year, is that
predominant price pressure more at the same COVID disruption, or is there some elements of
more investment required to see the top line of this division return to growth.
I guess specifically I'm looking for you expect to get more difficult for Sandoz this year versus last,
given this kind of stabilization signs you mentioned in Q4. And then just a very quick follow-up, can
we assume the contract manufacturing revenue, reclassification, you mentioned in the quarter is
a one-off effect.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Kerry. So maybe first on Sandoz, Richard, do you want to start and then maybe Harry can
chime in if (inaudible)
A - `Richard Saynor, Chief Executive Officer, Sandoz `
Yes. Sure. Thank you Vas. And thank you for the question Kerry. Yes. As I said, well Q4 we saw
things returning back to a more normal state of affairs, and a nice, I guess, solid performance for
the quarter four. As we're going to 2022, we're seeing good growth from the rest of the world
and really the challenge continues to be the U.S. And that's slowly -- the impact of price clearly
drives the issues in the U.S., but we're steadily stabilizing. So really I see 2022 is a year where the
rates declined in the U.S. dovetail though but it does drag down the overall business.
Price still is a significant impact. And also bear in mind 2022, we don't see many significant
launches, it's still a fairly quiet year in terms of LoE launches. So really the impact on bottom line is
really a mixture of price, and mix and we expect that then to slowly start changing as we come
out of '23 into '24, as the biologics pipeline starts to kick in again, and the U.S. continues its
stabilized journey and we see accelerated growth then in Europe and rest of the world.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Richard. And then Harry, on the contract manufacturing, and if you have any other
comments on Sandoz
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
No I think Richard that is all on Sandoz. In terms Kerry of contract manufacturing, we have
reported relatively small contract manufacturing business within revenue -- other revenues, and
now that we may increase over the next years a little bit that a business, we basically chose to
change representation, split up the sales and COGS.
And we also transparently show that, actually on Page 13 of the condensed financial report when
established medicines, you see it under the contract manufacturing line $108 million in quarterfour, which is kind of the full year '21, as we decided in the year that maybe over the next few
years, this may increase.
So that's why we changed that. It doesn't change to full year number for the company, it changes
in the quarter basically by 1 point on the company and the two divisions. And so we will -- you will
see that as we go forward how this is developing. And from that standpoint, we saw it's a better
representation as we go forward.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Harry. Thanks, Kerry. Next question, operator?
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Keyur Parekh, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Keyur Parekh, Goldman Sachs `
Hi. Thank you for taking my questions, please. Two if I may. First, kind of Vas, in your introductory
comments you spoke about your aspiration to be a top three innovator. I was wondering if you
might be able to give us some more details around, kind of, how do you define a top three
innovator. Is that in terms of number of new drugs approved? Is that commercial value of the
pipeline, just any -- just your thoughts around kind of how you define that?
And then, secondly, as we look forward to the Phase 3 study readout for iptacopan, what should
be our kind of expectations around the profile for that? Should we be looking at superiority,
should we be looking at something else, just kind of your confidence around that, and where
should our expectations be for that molecule? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thanks Keyur. On the first one a few measures on our minds, one is the replacement power
and can we be a leader in consistent replacement power of our sales. I think replacement power
and/or freshness index or valuable measures of the power of an innovation engine to replace
sales within our sector, and then ultimately to grow the sales of the company.
Second, we're very focused on the value per NME, that we are able to deliver. We're over the last
five years have been the leading company in the sector and the number of NMEs approved. But
we'd like to be the leader in the value per NME or peak sales per NME put in another way. So,
we're delivering to the market. And of course, ultimately this all leads to long-term sales growth,
in our ability to have an innovation engine that can drive that sales growth where we want to
consistently be. But I would say replacement power and value per NME here. Two high measures
on our mind.
In terms of the Phase 3 profile of iptacopan. John?
A - `John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and Chief Medical Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Keyur. As we look at the iptacopan, and the way that we're looking at the overall
profile, obviously, we're looking at the overall unmet needs of the patient. As you know, this is a
factor B that is actually targeting the alternative complement pathway. We're looking at both
extravascular and intravascular hemolysis for PNH in this specific indication.Also as we think about the renal indications, we're looking at it from the standpoint of reduction in
terms of proteinuria. And it could be in a couple of different ways, as we know that these patients
have a significant unmet need as one that they actually may need something more than what's
the current standard of care which is through ACE inhibitors and ARB. So this could be a
combination approach of moving forward.
The second way of looking at this, not only in terms of unmet medical need, it is also the route of
administration or in terms of the convenience for the patients. As we think about the approach,
many patients actually are requiring the subcu administration, which could take up to 60 minutes.
And having an overall administration twice a day would be much easier in terms of the approach.
And thirdly is evaluating the safety profile, as we look moving forward and we'll find out more
about the safety profiles as we readout in our study. So that's the way that we're looking at
iptacopan overall across the indications for PNH as well as C3G IgA and other renal indications.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, John. Thanks Keyur for the question. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from `Wimal Kapadia, Bernstein from Bernstein. Please go ahead. Your
line is open.
Q - `Wimal Kapadia, Bernstein `
Great. Thank you very much for taking my questions. So I just want to touch on PSMA. Soyou have
an interesting read out PSMA for potential 2022. How should we be thinking about the
incremental efficacy versus current benchmarks? And then in particular how should we be thinking
about the pre-taxane setting form a potential perspective, versus the post-taxane setting. And
then just tied to that, the launch of from the VISION study, is it fair to assume Lutathera trajectory
is a fair benchmark or just given prostate is a larger indication, the trajectory should look a little bit
different, now with more sustained growth beyond the initial ramp from saturation of clinics with
capability. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks Wimal. So maybe Susanne first on the overall story with Lu-PSMA and the launch of
the business setting. Then we'll hand it to John on the specific questions on pre and post-taxane.
Susanne? Susanne, are you there?
A - `Susanne Schaffert, President of Novartis Oncology `
Sorry, I was on mute. So Lu-PSMA has demonstrated very strong data in the metastatic castrate-
resistant prostate cancer population, as you know with significant radiographic PFS process and
OS. So we know in this population there is basically no alternative and Lutetium PSMA has
demonstrated superiority versus the standard of care.
So we expect there quite big interest and we have started managed access programs, where we
already see quite high demand. So therefore, when you ask me about the uptake, it will be
probably steady going up. We don't expect a big bolus, this is fourth line prostate cancer
patients. But of course incidence of a prostate cancer is much higher than for example,
neuroendocrine tumors. And therefore, I think, we see different dynamics in the uptick. Of course,
it's a smaller part, it's the last line of prostate cancer, but we expect continued growth and like aIt is very different population than GEP-NET. And maybe just a comment before I hand over to
John on the setting. I mean the current indication that we have had for would really be in last line
after androgens, RPMs, taxane chemotherapy. And therefore, of course with the profile that we
see on Lutetium PSMA, we would aim to early and start to be the pre-taxane setting is one of the
settings that is significantly bigger than what we have filed for in the current indication.
So with that John, maybe over to you, maybe a few words on PSMA-4?
A - `John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and Chief Medical Officer `
Sure. Happy to talk about PSMA-4. Maybe to start off, just to think about prostate cancer, as we
know 80% of prostate cancers actually express PSMA. So that's a starting point in the
pathophysiology. What we saw in the third line as Susanne expressed, is we saw that, we had
38% improvement in overall survival, and 60% in terms of radiographic -- radiographic
progression-free survival, as well as combination of OS. That is the starting point.
We know that there are a number of patients, that are in need of additional treatments, whether
that's in pre-taxane setting or in the first line setting, especially, given the toxicity of the taxanes in
chemotherapy. And what we know is Radioligand therapy has less adverse events than compared
to chemotherapy. So, we've already started recruitment in the pre-taxane study, and we're
hoping the read out before the end of the year for the second line treatment. And then we're
also looking at first line treatment in terms of hormone sensitive population, and that study is also
advancing. And we're -- in addition to those studies, we're also looking at studies in terms of
patients who have not had metastases in terms of prostate cancer. So I think this is going to be a
very broad program, as we move forward for Lutetium PSMA.
Q - `Wimal Kapadia, Bernstein `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, John. Thank you, Wima. So we have quite a few people in the queue. So if we could
try to limit ourselves to one question, we'll try to get to as many questions as possible. Next
question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Matt Weston from Credit Suisse. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Credit Suisse `
Thank you. My questions on and (inaudible) Harry or Vas, I'd be very interested to understand how
you've integrated it into guidance. I can see from your slides that you've given it $1 billion on
probability at just peak sales potential. And obviously, if you're able to achieve regulatory
emergency's authorization, we could see significant bolus orders. And so I'd love to know what
you've taken into (Technical Difficulty) for 2022? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thank you, Matthew, and I can take that. So we've not included (inaudible) in our guidance,
any of the guidance that we've provided today. I think as we understand better, as we move
through the emergency use authorization, application and review process, ultimately understandFDA's decision. And then the potential contracting we would have with the U.S. as well as other
interested parties around the world.
We've had discussions with a number of other governments around the world, around the
medicine, but I would say most of those governments have centered their view on how the FDA
ultimately views the EUA application, if they were going to make emergency orders. So we think
it's prudent right now, not to include it. And then, once we understand the dynamics better, over
the course of Q1 we hope, or into Q2, we would then update accordingly.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Credit Suisse `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Matthew. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Foster, JP Morgan from JP Morgan. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Richard Foster, JP Morgan `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. So, just a question on price pressure from ex-U.S. governments
et cetera. I mean they've been pretty hit by COVID and COVID expenses. After the great
financial crisis we saw some increased pressure on drug prices. Are we going to see something
like that? Are there any murmurings from governments on pricing pressure generally? Thanks
very much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I can start and so as far as my discussions have gone on with various health officials in
Europe, not heard an increased focus or shift in terms of the support for innovative medicines,
and enabling medicines have broad access or improved access, certainly that's a priority for
President, Macron and his European Commission presidency. But maybe, Marie-France, do you
have any thoughts or insights on this?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Yes, I mean, I just think in general, we always have to be prepared. I mean, we do more and more
have to make the case or we see limitations on reimbursement, in terms of line of therapy et
cetera, et cetera. Obviously, we have a lot of experience and we're very used to that in the
European landscape. You see a lot of tough negotiations happening in China.
So I would say it's a little bit almost like the ticket to entry is making sure that the value of our
products is recognized, that we're focused on value-based pricing, which I think is something that
Novartis has been very diligent about. And making sure that access is really top of mind on any
strategy when it comes to product launch or making sure that more patients can reach products
faster.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Perfect. Thanks for that. Thank you Richard. Next question operator?Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Emmanuel Papadakis, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Emmanuel Papadakis, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you for taking the question, maybe I'll take one on ianalumab and secukinumab a decision
to progress into Phase 3, I guess question around design and timing. You published data that
look I'd say better in patients with less advanced disease. Have you reached a decision decisions
yet about the Phase 3 design. And what the enrollment is that likely to include in terms of patient
population? And therefore what proportion of the Sjogren's population is just pretty large that
might not Phase 3 trial might apply to.
And then just in terms of timing, you, I think, told us the R&D Day 2026 with a likely timing for
potential Phase 3 read out. Is there any way that could be accelerated for example in interim, so
that a biomarker data since that would imply pretty long Phase 3 timeline. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you Emmanuel for your questions. John on ianalumab Phase 3 design for Sjogren's.
A - `John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and Chief Medical Officer `
Yes. As we think about ianalumab and as Vas said earlier, we're excited about a number of
indications in Sjogren's syndrome, Lupus Nephritis and SLE. Specifically as you asked about
Sjogren's Syndrome, as we've advanced based on results that we've seen from our Phase 2
study, these are patients who actually have had high ESSDAI scores. And that's the specific
population that we're targeting, moving forward in this population.
We are going to start recruiting patients in the second half of this year, in terms of advancing. I
think the balance here is the largest Sjogren's Syndrome Phase 3 study, that's been conducted
actually, I should say the largest study not Phase 3 but the largest study that's been conducted
has been conducted by us. And we want to ensure that there's consistency in terms of these
patients ever recruiting, because Sjogren's is a very diverse population of patients.
We've guided the results in 2026, and we will update as we find the patients and how
recruitment goes. But we are using strict criteria for inclusion to ensure that we get the best
results moving forward. Currently, we are expecting results in '26.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
I mean I think one of the dynamics I've learned is how important it is to have well trained centers
here that really ensure that they apply the ESSDAI and some of the other measures in a
consistent way. So I think we want to be appropriately cautious on our timeline. And then, of
course, as we learn more as John said, we'll provide updates on ianalumab across all of the
indications that we take it forward in. Thanks, Emmanuel. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Mark Purcell, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Please
go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Morgan Stanley `Yes. Thanks for taking my question. Entresto, China, could you help us understand the size of the
opportunity and hypertension, but when the LoE timing is going to kick in on the basis of the pivot
opportunity and the retail pharmacy setting to maintain your momentum in China. And as quickly
those in terms of a clarification, in terms of the Sandoz considerations for counterparties, what
should we expect next in terms of biosimilar data? And what are the key LoE launches coming up
in '23 and beyond?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, absolutely, Mark. So first on the Entresto, China, Marie-France?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Yes, so the opportunity certainly from a volume perspective is significant, right? So we're moving
the population from 7 million to 8 million heart failure patients to about 240 hypertension
patients. And as I said before, in my comments, hypertension patients in China are really not well
controlled. So there is a big opportunity. Obviously there was a significant price concession, as we
listed NRDL. But we do think that it is a worthwhile proposition, just because there's an
opportunity to just expand to such a broad, broad population of patients.
So we are -- we have broadened our footprint as well. We're making the necessary investments.
We also want to make sure that we have the right digital tools in place. As you know, we have a
cooperation with Tencent, where we're looking at of course Entresto independent, but looking at
making sure that the heart failure patients can be more in control of their own monitoring.
So there are a lot of activities in this space, as you know in China CVD is a major cardiovascular
disease, is a major problem with massive cost. And when it comes to the patent situation, in
China, it's hard to give a definitive answer. We are obviously working to secure RDP in China, and I
think that's an industry wide initiative. So there are some question marks around until when and
certainly couldn't give you guidance on that here today. But the opportunity is significant. We're
thrilled about it. This was as we said a potential upside for us, and could be up to about a third of
our, let's say growth in Entresto for this year.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Marie-France. And then on Sandoz biosimilars, upcoming launches, Richard?
A - `Richard Saynor, Chief Executive Officer, Sandoz `
Thanks Vas. Really the next lunches already have ianalumab and natalizumab coming in, I guess
late '23 into '24. So I think I commented earlier that that's really the start of the next wave of
biosimilar that should start accelerating by the top line, including the margin expansion from the
business, and clearly we'll update as we file and move that product forward.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Mark. Thanks, Richard. Thank you, Mark. I think we have time for -- I don't know how many
more we have in the queue. But operator, I'll take the next question, and we'll keep going till the
mid of the hour.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Florent Cespedes, Societe Generale from Societe Generale.
Please go ahead. Your line is open.Q - `Florent Cespedes, Societe Generale `
Good afternoon. Thank you so much for taking my question. A quick follow-up on China, please.
Could you please elaborate on beyond Entresto, which are the growth drivers there and potential
risk, and how you see the momentum in China? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Marie-France, do you want to take that on pharma China?
A - `Marie-France Tschudin, President of Novartis Pharmaceuticals `
Yes. So we've got three main growth drivers for the pharma business in China Cosentyx, Entresto
and Lucentis. And all three products are showing strong growth.
I mean, as we mentioned before, they were all effective in Q4, but Q4 is also normally the lowest
quarter in the year for us. So we talked about the budget constraints for Cosentyx. We've seen
the rebound in Q1 for Entresto the NRDL was paying in the stock compensation. And Lucentis was
due to COVID lockdowns.
The one thing I'll say about China is that, going forward and giving the fact that they -- the country
is now so open to innovation, we are now thinking about China as we think about any other
country. So when we look forward at our portfolio, whether that's Leqvio, we just received the
launch of -- or the approval for Kesimpta, we are thinking about our portfolio in China, in the
same way as we're thinking about our portfolio in the U.S. and Europe. So going forward, that's
what you can expect. The three growth drivers maybe the big exception is Lucentis, which
continues to be a strong growth driver for us in China, and that's where the focus is, that's where
we're investing, and that's where our footprint is working.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Societe Generale `
Thank you very much. Very clear.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thanks, Marie-France. The next, we'll go so, I think, we have two more first-line questions.
Next question operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from `Peter Welford, Jefferies from Jefferies. Please go ahead. Your
line is open.
Q - `Peter Welford, Jefferies `
Hi, thanks for squeezing me in. Just one for Harry, really. The outlook for innovative medicines, the
outlook for the core operating income, mid to high single digits is slightly above sales growth.
Obviously this year, we saw some similar, but you delivered close to 10%. Maybe if you could
delve in a little bit about what we should be thinking about the greater investments, I guess
you're making this year. So if you like constrained, perhaps the margin expansion versus the
benefit we saw in '21, the results in that mid-to-high single-digit growth, or is it just conservatism
on your part? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `Thanks, Peter. Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, thank you Peter. So of course, always a fine balance, right, as we know in pharma
companies, one can get almost any kind of core margin, one would like to have. But it's always
this very delicate balance between investing, and also driving of course productivity, as we do.
And so overall know we have made significant strides on the core margin improvement, as well
Mark shared in one of his earlier charts, 180 basis points in '19, 220 basis points in '20, and then
130 basis points last year.
And a part of that was also some restricted investments if you will due to the pandemic situation.
So we always ensure that we invest appropriately in the R&D line certainly, and we have to ensure
that the launches are getting very well supported, and we have fantastic launches, that Marie-
France, Susanne and her teams, -- and their teams are driving. So, I would expect each of the
next years in innovative medicines some good margin improvement, but of course not to the
level we have seen, over the last two, three years. So it's a balance, and the investments are
clearly in the pipeline of the launchers. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Harry. And then we have time -- thanks, Peter. Last question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your last question today comes from the line of `Seamus Fernandez, Guggenheim from
Guggenheim. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Guggenheim `
Great. Thanks for the question. So, just wanted a couple of pipeline questions very quickly. Just in
terms of the differentiation, what makes ianalumab unique from other APO BAFF compounds
that have failed in similar type indications, particularly in Lupus. I think we've seen a number of
challenges there. And then just separately on ligelizumab versus remibrutinib and CSU, can you
just help us understand the decision points, as it relates to ligelizumab for filing. And then how -- if
you do launch there trade-off your expectations for remibrutinib in the similar setting. Thanks.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I think. John. are you still there? Do you want take ianalumab question?
A - `John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and Chief Medical Officer `
Sure. Absolutely. And thanks for the question, Seamus. As we look at Ianalumab, this is our anti-
BAFF agent, and we really see two different modes of action with ianalumab. It's a direct lysis of B
cells by ADCC as pne path, and the other is BAFF receptor blockade that interrupts the BAFF
mediated signaling for B cell maturation proliferation and survival.
So the difference here is, there are dual modes of mechanisms of action versus what has been
seen with previous BAFF receptor blockers. And what we've seen is actually this counterbalance
of the two mechanisms that allows us to see. And we've actually seen good responses, as we
said earlier in our Phase 2 studies and that's why we're moving forward in these various
indications. On your second question, I think, in terms of the, go ahead Vas.A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
I was just going to chime in on, I think some of the competitor of historical molecules only
targeted the BAFF ligand, and then there will be certain subtypes of the BAFF ligands are not
completely comparable to previous results. Go ahead John on remibrutinib.
A - `John Tsai, Head of Global Drug Development and Chief Medical Officer `
Yeah, so in terms of looking at remibrutinib versus ligelizumab, as we look at both combinations,
we've seen good results in both. And as you know for remibrutinib, for the BTK selective oral
inhibitor, what we've seen is also good results in CSU with an oral compound. So as we're moving
forward, we're looking at both approaches, and we'll make decisions as we further analyze the
results from ligelizumab and then, as we move forward, with remibrutinib. We will continue the
recruitment in these studies.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And I think Seamus, the idea of ligelizumab I gets the question, is there value in getting the
medicine on the market ahead of the potential future launches in food allergy and CINDU or is
that not a sensible strategic approach. And we just haven't come to a determination yet.
So our current view is that with the superiority to Placebo, it is potentially viable and of course the
review issued with the FDA. So, we're going to make those assessments carefully and then
decide what's the right approach as we I think ahead.
Very good so thank everyone for joining today's conference call. We hope it was helpful to get a
perspective on both the near term, but also the longer-term outlook of the company, the
pipeline, the products, and the things we're excited about. We're excited about delivering the
strong 2022. And we'll look forward to keeping you up to date through various interactions, and
then of course in our next quarterly conference call.
We wish you a great year, and we'll look forward to speaking to you soon. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. That does conclude today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may all
disconnect.