Y 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning and good afternoon, and welcome to the Novartis Q4 2022 Results Release
Conference Call and Live Webcast. Please note that during the presentation, all participants will
be in a listen-only mode and the conference is being recorded. (Operator Instructions) Please
limit yourself to one question and return to the queue for any follow-up. A recording of the
conference, including the Q&A session will be available on our website shortly after the call ends.
With that, I would like to hand over to Mr. `Samir Shah, Global Head, Investor Relations, Global Head of Investor Relations. Please
go ahead, sir.
`Samir Shah, Global Head, Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, operator, and thank you to everybody for participating on what is a very
busy day for reporting in Pharma -- European Pharma.
Before we start, just to read you the Safe Harbor Statement. The information presented today
contains forward-looking statements that involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and
other factors. These may cause actual results to be materially different from any future results,
performance, or achievements expressed or implied by such statements. For a description of
some of these factors, please refer to the company's Form 20-F and its most recent quarterly
results on Form 6-K that respectively were filed with and furnished to the US Securities and
Exchange Commission.And with that, I'll hand across to Vas.
`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Samir. And thanks everyone for joining today's conference call. Really appreciate your
interest in the company and our update for the full year 2022. If we move to Slide 4, this year, as
you saw in our earnings release or in 2022, we delivered what we believe is really robust core
operating income growth and margin expansion. From a sales standpoint, you saw Q4 sales up
3% with IM delivering Q4 sales of 3% (Technical Difficulty).
Productivity standpoint, we had 15% core operating income growth in quarter four, and Harry will
go a little bit further through the dynamics that drove that. But for the full year, that led to 8%
core operating income growth ahead of our guidance. That leads us to have now a margin for IM
in quarter four of 36.4% and on the full year, 36.9%. And as a reminder, taken together inclusive
of corporate costs, we are well on our way now towards our 40% core margin guidance for the
medium term.
Now in terms of innovation some important milestones, we'll go through those in a bit more
detail. And we continue our journey on ESG, sustainability-linked bond. We continue to progress
towards our 2025 targets. We had 31 million patients that are in Novartis flagship programs and
we continue to have solid ratings across the key ESG rating agencies.
Now moving to Slide 5, you'll remember that in September at our Meet the Management, we
rolled out our new focused strategy, and we've been diligently -- diligently been implementing
this across the company. Five core therapeutic areas, two plus three technology platforms, four
priority geographies; a mindset to really focus on high-value medicines to accelerate growth;
delivering the return profile we believe the company can achieve and you saw that already in
quarter four; and a continued commitment to culture, data science, and building trust with society.
Now moving to Slide 6. And as a reminder, as you all well know, over the last five years and really
over since 2014, we've been on a journey to really focus Novartis as the pure play Innovative
Medicines Company and through a number of actions we've taken, most recently with the
announced planned spin-off of Sandoz. We're on our way to becoming a 100% Innovative
Medicines Company.
And when you look at the right-hand side of the slide, we believe that a simplified organizational
model will allow us to have greater focus, leverage our scale, and really uniquely position us as a
global pure-play, large-scale innovative pharma company versus our peer set. And over time,
hopefully, also rerate the company given the growth profile we intend to deliver.
Now moving to Slide 7. We've also guided to improved financials with this new focused company,
with 4% sales growth, a goal of core operating income margin of 40% as I previously stated,
continued improvement on free cash flow, and importantly, an improving and attractive return on
invested capital profile. That will allow us to continue to invest and -- across our capital allocation
priorities which Harry will go through in a bit more detail later on in the presentation.
Now moving to Slide 8. In each of the five therapeutic areas that we've outlined, we have core
large-scale commercial assets and multiple pipeline assets that are now progressing, and we
focused our R&D organization around these five areas. We're streamlining the pipeline. I think
you'll see, over the coming quarters, us exiting additional assets as we really try to prune out non-
core areas and put all of our scientific firepower and ingenuity towards building out a deep set of
pipeline assets in each of these therapeutic areas. We'll look forward to showing that progress
over the coming year.Now moving to Slide 9. In terms of capital allocation priorities and a strong balance sheet,[ph] that
we have continue to invest in the organic business and pursue value-creating bolt-on. We look at
the full range of M&A possibilities but our focus is on sub $5 billion of assets where we believe
we have the opportunity to generate strong returns and find the most value when we look at
M&A opportunities. And we also remain committed to our -- growing our annual dividend and
Harry will outline that in a little while, but we have paid out $7.5 billion in 2022. Our proposed
dividend is another growth in the 3.2% Swiss franc and 3.9% US dollars range. And even after the
proposed Sandoz spin-off, there'll be no rebasing of that dividend. We'll continue to grow off of
the current base.
And we're continuing to implement our $15 billion share buyback program. We have $4.9 billion
still to be executed and we'll continue to look at doing additional share buybacks over the coming
years when the opportunities present themselves.
Now moving to Slide 10. And I want to turn now to our innovation story and where we are
continuing to improve our overall R&D productivity. I think it has been well-recognized. We are a
leader in terms of generating approval. The leading company over the last 20-plus years in
generating drug approvals in the United States and around the world. Our focus now is to
improve the value per asset, identifying assets earlier that have significant potential, investing in
those assets more aggressively, pursuing more life cycle management indications, and with that,
a goal to increase the success rate and reduce the cycle times and generate larger assets.
Maybe not winning the game of generating the most assets, but really focused on high-value,
high-impact medicines that could impact patients and the company's financial performance.
Moving to Slide 11. I wanted to walk through some of the readouts that we have coming up in the
near term and then in the mid term. Now, I think as you all are well aware, Kisqali continues on
track. We'll go through this in a bit more detail in a few slides for a readout in the second half.
Iptacopan is progressing nicely with multiple readouts over the course of this year, a planned FDA
submission in PNH, and then readouts in both IgAN and C3G. And then Pluvicto, where we've
already read out the top line in the early prostate cancer, early metastatic setting with a planned
regulatory submission in the second half. And I'll give you a bit more detail on each of these three
in a few slides.
Going to the next slide. When you look at '24, '25, we expect to have an increased pace of
readouts, the potential multibillion-dollar medicines. Medicines such as Pelacarsen in patients with
elevated Lp(a). Adalimumab, where we have now moved this medicine into multiple
hematological indications, first and second line ITP readouts in 2025. We have additional
hematology and immunology indications we're pursuing now with this medicine. So you'll see with
adalimumab, a broad range of Phase 3 programs initiating over the coming period.
Remibrutinib, we have a CSU readout in 2024, ahead of our MS -- planned MS readouts in the
coming years. And then we continue to progress with OAV101, which is our gene therapy for SMA
in the intrathecal setting as well as the first line Scemblix program with a readout planned in 2024.
Now moving to Slide 13 and going into a bit more detail. NATALEE continues to progress well
following the first interim analysis, and we continue to guide to a final readout in the second half
of 2023. As a reminder, this is a broad population, including both Stage 2 and Stage 3 patients,
so the broadest population study to date. We have longer duration that -- with which we provide
therapy to these patients, three versus two years, a lower dose to try to improve the overall
tolerability profile. And when you look at where we are in this study, final analysis is expected for -
- with 500 iDFS events at the end of 2023. We've completed the first interim analysis, as wenoted earlier this month and study continues unchanged. The second interim analysis would
happen after 85% of iDFS events are complete.
Moving to Slide 14. Turning to Pluvicto, where we announced late last year that we demonstrated
statistically significant and clinically meaningful radiographic PFS benefits in this patient population.
Now, we're continuing to follow these patients with the second -- towards the secondary OS
endpoint analysis in 2025. We plan -- are on track to file in the second half of this year.
We have had discussions with the FDA and clarified the OS fraction, the fraction of patients that
FDA would like to see has reached a OS endpoint prior to filing. We expect to reach that later
around the middle of this year, which would then enable the filing in the second half. Now with
that guidance from FDA, we've made the decision to hold the publication or presentation of
further data until the second half of this year. I know some of you have been looking for ASCO,
GU, and some of the other congresses in the first half. We will be presenting this data in the
second half after we reach that next threshold that FDA has outlined for us. We have alignment
that's consistent with what FDA has told to other companies in the prostate cancer space to then
be able to file in the second half with that dataset.
Now moving to Slide 15. And why that's so important is, as I'll talk about that when we get to the
commercial section of the presentation, Pluvicto is continuing to demonstrate I think really
impressive uptake in the United States market, and the opportunity is to move first with the
PSMAfore study into the pre-taxane setting, which would extend -- expand the patient pool from
an estimated 27,000 patients to 42,000 patients.
Then with the PSMA+ study, which we expect to read out next year, that would expand us further
into the hormone-sensitive setting. And then we continue to evaluate how best to pursue Pluvicto
further into the biochemical recurrent setting or the localized prostate cancer setting. So stay
tuned as we continue to look at the further expansion. But I think this really demonstrates the
possibilities with radioligand therapy, and we look forward to continuing to generate a broad set
of data to support Pluvicto's use in as many prostate cancer patients that could potentially benefit
from the medicine.
Now moving to Slide 16, turning to Iptacopan. And as I noted in the second half of last year, we
first provided an update that -- and provided a full dataset at ASH of the APPLY dataset, which I
think showed really outstanding efficacy for all primary -- for both primary and secondary
endpoints, superiority to the standard of care in patients with residual anemia.
In the Phase 3 APPOINT study, where we have demonstrated again really strong results and we'll
be presenting that data at a congress in the first half of this year. And then we continue to
progress across a range of indications, IgAN and C3G which will read out in 2023; atypical
hemolytic uremic syndrome, where we expect a submission enabling readout in 2025; and then a
number of other indications, IC-MPGN, lupus nephritis, immune thrombocytopenia amongst
others.
Moving to the next Slide. And just as a reminder, when you look at that dataset that we showed at
ASH, I think very impressive data in these patients with residual anemia. Some of the notable data
when you look, an increase in hemoglobin from baseline 51 out of 60 patients versus 0 out of 35,
so a 82.3% versus 2% against the control arm. Hemoglobin greater than 12, similarly impressive
result. 42 out of 60 versus 0 out of 35. Again transfusion avoidance. You can see an impressive
70.3% improvement and a 10-fold lower rate of annualized clinical breakthrough hemolysis. So
this is that refractory setting. We will present the data in the frontline setting.We've also initiated a study of patients who -- to demonstrate we can switch off of anti-C5
directly onto Iptacopan in patients in that front-line setting. So building out a broad data package
within PNH.
Now moving to Slide 18. We wanted to also provide a little more clarity on our approach within IgA
nephropathy. In this -- sorry, this is still in PNH, excuse me. So -- and this is the outline of the
dataset for a point where we will present this data shortly. And you can see again, the design of
the study has the potential to be practice-changing in PNH. And as I said, we'll be looking forward
to outlining this primary endpoint and secondary endpoints in an upcoming congress.
Now moving to slide 19. Now turning to the IgAN study APPLAUSE for Iptacopan, we wanted to
clarify that our current filing plan aligned with the FDA that the nine-month analysis to assess
superiority in reduction of proteinuria at nine months and a statistical plan has been agreed. This
would a US Subpart H approval for accelerated approval. We would then continue to follow these
patients to look for the more definitive endpoints and to look at slowing progression for IgAN,
which would take to the end of the study in 2025 enabling the approval to convert to a full
approval. So that's the approach we'll take with IgAN and we'll look forward to sharing that data
towards the end of this year.
Now, moving to Slide 20. I did want to highlight a couple of earlier stage assets where we're
continuing to progress now, really with a focus on large potential assets in the pipeline. These
include drugs like XXB in cardiovascular disease. This is an NPR1 agonist given in frequently, a
monoclonal antibody for resistant hypertension and heart failure.
YTB, our CART[ph] platform will be presented additional data at ASH, where we are now
pursuing this both in the front line large B-cell lymphoma but importantly, also in multiple
immunology indication on the back of data suggesting that we can take refractory patients into
remission, at least in small-scale studies that's something we're looking at more carefully.
Additional radioligand therapies, including in breast cancer and glioblastoma. PPY which is our
gene therapy and ophthalmology for geographic atrophy, which we acquired as part of the
Gyroscope acquisition. And lastly, DLX, the partnered compound for (inaudible) oral alpha-
synuclein inhibitor for Parkinson's disease. All high-risk projects, as is always the case in the stage
of development, but all with the potential if they were to work to be very transformational
medicines.
Moving to Slide 21. Now turning to the growth profile of the company and why we believe we can
deliver that 4% growth. We have these six in-line brands. These three major launch assets:
Pluvicto; Scemblix; and Iptacopan. And these additional pipeline assets that I've outlined. And
that's why we continue to believe that we have the firepower in-house with the assets we have to
be able to generate that 4% growth with that 40% margin and create a very attractive profile in
the coming years.
Now moving to Slide 22. The drivers of our growth in this year, this past year were primarily
Entresto, Kesimpta, and Kisqali with major contributions from Pluvicto as well as to a lesser extent
Scemblix and Leqvio. And we expect that -- those assets to continue to have robust growth over
the coming years.
Now importantly, we'll discuss a bit more detail, Cosentyx and some of the dynamics there, but
the critical element for Cosentyx story will be lifecycle management in the next wave of
indications as well as continued growth in Europe and China, and I'll go through that in a moment.Now moving to Slide 23. When you look at Entresto, continued strong performance, 44% growth
quarter-on-quarter. You can see the US weekly TRx has continued to climb demonstrating that
Entresto really now it is the treatment of choice for patients with preserved -- with heart failure,
meeting the guidelines within the label and the relevant cardiovascular guidelines. You see the
NBRx is up 16%. We continue to see strong growth in Europe. In China and Japan, we also have
contributions from Entresto use in resistant hypertension. And we remain confident in the
ongoing growth profile as we continue to penetrate in heart failure, continue to generate
additional real-world data, and we seek that launch momentum in Asia as well.
Now moving to Slide 24 and turning to Cosentyx. I think as many of you have already seen,
Cosentyx's Q4 sales were impacted by a revenue deduction true-up related to prior quarters.
This was related to a higher level of Medicaid utilization than we had expected. This is delayed
data that we received from the various Medicaid channel sources, and that led to a higher --
higher revenue deduction for the previous quarters which we took fully in quarter four. When we
fully neutralized for that, we saw the US actually decline 6%. And when we look at all of the puts
and takes, we see the US largely being in line right now with respect to Cosentyx's performance
in 2022 versus the prior year.
We would expect in the US for 2023 to continue to see in-line growth. So, that's -- when we look
at all of the dynamics, you will see in the first half of the year some declines in Cosentyx as we lap
the fact that in the previous year, you had these deductions which were not factored in. But
underlying, we expect Cosentyx to be able to hold its current performance in the US.
And then growth, it really enables us to get to that mid-single digit growth will be driven by
Europe and China where we continue to see strong growth, double-digit growth in China overall.
And that will enable us to be well set up for what will come next, which is primarily the lifecycle
management of this brand.
And turning to lifecycle management, when you go to the next slide, Slide 20 -- 25. Really for
Cosentyx now to continue its trajectory to get to the $7 billion, which we remain confident in, it will
be around launching these next wave of indications successfully. For Hidradenitis Suppurativa, we
expect the approvals in Europe in the first half of this year and in the US in the second half of this
year. This is a large indication where only one competitor product is approved in the TNF, so we
will be first to market as a novel agent in this whole setting. So it's an exciting opportunity to bring
this med -- a new therapy to this patient population.
We have the intravenous US launch where we'd be the first novel post-TNF medicine to be
available in an intravenous formulation. We expect that launch in the second half of 2023. A new
auto-injector, and then the continued work we have on giant cell arthritis and lupus nephritis,
again indications where Cosentyx has generated I think compelling data.
So taking together, when we look at this profile for lifecycle management, the profile we have ex-
US and the stabilization of the US business, we feel confident we'll get to that $7 billion peak
sales potential over time.
Now moving to Slide 26. You saw the Kesimpta is continuing its strong growth trajectory with 28%
constant currency growth, primarily driven by the US, but we now start to see a pickup as well
outside the United States. Importantly, the key driver for this is the ongoing utilization of Kesimpta
in patients who were previously on braces or were naive to any multiple sclerosis therapy. It's
important to note that in the B-cell share of the total market, it is only about 50%. So half the
market continues to receive older therapies. Our Kesimpta exit share was 30% and we plan to
continue to grow that with a goal to get to 50% share of B-cell patients over time. So really good(Technical Difficulty) efficacy profile, strong convenience profile. So we'll continue to look forward
to launching Kesimpta around the world and driving that dynamic US performance.
Now moving to Slide 27. Kisqali had strong growth across all geographies. And when you look at
that 33% growth, that's driven by a recognition that Kisqali really is the agent with the best data
sets in the metastatic breast cancer setting today. And that's, I think, been really captured by the
NCCN guideline update that happened just a few days ago, where Kisqali was named the only
category one treatment for first-line metastatic breast cancer patients with an aromatase
inhibitor, which is the majority of patients in the metastatic setting.
So with that NCCN guideline update now and as we continue to communicate that to physicians,
this hopefully will give us continued momentum, as you can see with Kisqali now getting to 27% in
TRx share. And we'll -- hopefully, we'll see in that metastatic setting, that continued climb on the
back of the data sets that we've presented, NCCN guidelines, broad momentum coming out of
the San Antonio Breast Cancer Congress as well.
And then that will flow into, of course, the NATALEE readout, which we've already discussed and
the ongoing HARMONIA head-to-head study we have ongoing versus Ibrance. Notably, as well,
we did achieve an approval in China for Kisqali, which will be another growth driver for this brand
going forward.
Now moving to Slide 28. Zolgensma maintained the leading share in patients with SMA less than
two years of age. But Q4 growth was muted and this was really because we've now penetrated a
lot of -- most of the bolus and not the entire bolus, the prevalent patients in most of our key
geographies. And growth now is largely dependent on adding additional countries in emerging
markets around the world. And so, we expect with this brand to stabilize in the $1.5 billion range
until we get the readout and hopeful approval in the intrathecal setting.
We'll continue to work to increase newborn screening. Importantly, in Europe, that's at 45%, and
we have the opportunity we believe to drive that up further, it would be a source of growth as
well as adding on additional markets in Latin America, the Middle East, and other parts of the
world. But the key next inflection point for Zolgensma will certainly be the readout of the STEER
study of intrathecal patients and the STRENGTH study in the use of IV Zolgensma patients in two
to five years of age. Those studies are enrolling on track, and then we'll hopefully have data sets
to share in the coming years.
Now moving to Slide 29. I wanted to turn to Leqvio and give you an update on where we are now
as we continue to build a strong foundation for this brand to become a significant cardiovascular
medicine for the company. With respect to access, we're now at 76% of patients covered at or
near label. In terms of adherence, we're seeing 75% of patients today coming in for their second
dose. We now have 1,700 centers that have ordered Leqvio. And we've been able to increase
between Q3 and Q4 about 50% the number of HCPs who have prescribed Leqvio either through
a paid dose or through our free trial offer to now 7,200 physicians.
So we continue to build that strong base, continue to generate important data. The ORION-3
data was recently published. Our Phase 3 secondary prevention studies are enrolling well. We've
launched now our primary prevention studies, which we'll expect to start in the first half of 2023
and continue to build out a robust data set for this medicine.
Now moving to Slide 30. When you look at where Entresto is and compare it to where -- sorry,
where Leqvio is and compared to where Entresto was in the US, we're largely in line with what we
saw in the Entresto launch. A slow ramp as we build up awareness amongst physicians, get all ofuse of a new medicine or, in this case, a new approach to controlling cholesterol. So we're on
track versus the Entresto ramp and that's the ramp we would expect to see over the course of
the coming months with respect to Leqvio with a goal, of course, to accelerate wherever we can.
When you look at the US, the key accelerators are going to be new facilities, getting more depth
in our existing prescribers, and continuing to educate HCPs on the Part B reimbursement process.
We also would expect over the course of this year, to get additional conversion from the free trial
offer that we rolled out in the second half of last year.
Outside the United States, a big focus at the NHS[ph] is to get a broader prescriber breadth in
the UK. And then we'll have the hopeful approval in the back half of this year in China, which will
allow us to have a major geography where we can further accelerate global Leqvio performance.
Moving to Slide 31. Pluvicto, I think, as you've all seen, is off to an outstanding start in the United
States. And this is reflective of very strong demand we're seeing for this medicine. $179 million in
quarter four, full-year sales of $270 million, almost entire -- all of that was in the US. We are seeing
NBRx share at 18%, and that continues to climb in the post-taxane mCRPC setting, 160 unique
accounts. We have very good payer coverage, permanent A code is now in effect. We're
approved in Europe. So this is a story now where we continue to see very strong demand in the
US, and we see strong demand in Europe. and we're scaling our manufacturing capacity to meet
that demand.
And when you look at the next slide, our Pluvicto manufacturing capacity is going to expand over
the course of 2023. Our expectations are we'll be able to move across four facilities that will have
online for this medicine versus a single facility right now that's the primary source that we have
today. We're working hard to bring Melbourne online by the middle of this year, which will allow us
for another capacity expansion. Then later this year an automated, brand-new facility in
Indianapolis with substantial capacity. And then for the rest of the world, Zaragoza, a facility in
Spain, which would then further expand our capacity for Europe.
We're also evaluating adding additional manufacturing sites in Asia at this time. With the four
facilities you have here, we're targeting capacity of over 250,000 doses annually in 2024 and
beyond. And then we'll continue to expand that capacity by adding additional facilities if the
demand warrants it.
Now moving to Slide 33. Scemblix is off also to a strong start. You can see the sales here, $150
million on the full year, NBRx share at 29%. And probably the most important element here of this
story will be the ASH preferred study, which we're enrolling ahead of plan. We expect to read out
in 2024, which will enable us to potentially move this medicine in the first-line setting and
potentially be used as an alternative to imatinib or some of the other first and second-generation
TKIs.
Now moving to Slide 34. I'll hand it over to Harry now for the financial review. Harry?
`Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thank you, Vas. Good morning, good afternoon, everyone. I'm now going to talk you
through some of the financials for 2022 as well as provide you with our 2023 guidance. As always,
my comments refer to growth rates in constant currencies unless otherwise noted. So next slide,
please.
I would like to begin by comparing our performance with the latest guidance we provided in
October last year. As you can see, we generally met our guidance across the divisions and atgroup level with a notable beat for group core operating income, which was largely driven by
Innovative Medicines' performance. As you can see, Sandoz top line also returned to growth with
core operating income impacted by higher-than-expected inflationary pressures on input costs.
Next slide, please. Taking a step back for a moment, you see that our 2022 performance was a
continuation of our strong track record for Innovative Medicines. Over the last three years, we
have delivered a 5% CAGR growth in sales and double of that at 10% CAGR on core operating
income. Obviously, this performance has resulted in margin improving from approximately 33%
beginning of this time period to now 37%, an increase of 480 basis points in constant currencies
over three years. In short, we are delivering consistent performance against our financial targets
and intend to continue to deliver improved financials, of course.
Turning to Slide 37. I will focus on the full year numbers on the right-hand side. For the full year, as
Vas already laid out, sales grew 4% and core operating income 8%. Operating income was down
13% mainly due to the higher restructuring costs related to the implementation of our streamlined
organizational model. Net income was $7 billion, with the comparison versus '21[ph] impacted by
the Roche stake divestment income. Recall, we had a onetime gain of $14 billion[ph] when we
sold the Roche stake in -- for $21 billion
Core EPS was $6.12, growing 14%, excluding the prior year Roche impact. Free cash flow was $12
billion for the full year, of course, also impacted by currency movements, but overall a solid free
cash flow performance.
Speaking of free cash flow, let's talk about the next slide. Of course, one of my favorite year-end
slides. Given our solid 22% free cash flow, we are pleased to propose the 26th consecutive
dividend increase to CHF3.20 per share. This is up 3.2% versus the CHF3.10 last year, a dividend
yield of 3.8%. Of course, this increase is fully in line with our policy of increasing our dividend per
share every year in Swiss francs.
Now to Slide 39, please? Thank you. Now let's get into some further details about our 2022
margin performance by division. Overall, for the full year, core margin for the group increased 130
basis points to 33% of sales, driven by IM margin which also increased by 130 basis points to
36.9%. And we'll talk about Sandoz in detail on the next slide.
So here you see a summary of the Sandoz 2022 performance. It was a good year for the division
returning to top line, with sales up 4%, driven by the biopharma growth of 9% and retail growing
4%. Core operating income was essentially flat for the full year, disproportionately affected by
inflationary pressures on input costs. As we look in the future, we expect continued share gains
across geographies and two potential biosimilar US approvals in the second half of 2023. With
respect to the planned spin-off, we remain on track to complete this in the second half of the
year, pending the required approvals.
Next page, please. As we anticipate, a spin-off of Sandoz in the second half of the year, we
thought it would be useful to give guidance for Innovative Medicines, Novartis excluding Sandoz,
and Novartis including Sandoz, to allow for the respective modeling that no doubt you will do. So
for Innovative Medicines, we expect sales to grow low to mid-single digits, and core operating
income to grow mid to high single digits.
Novartis, excluding Zandoz, has of course exactly the same growth guidance as Innovative
Medicines because the only difference between the two are corporate cost. Now Novartis,
including Sandoz, which is essentially today's group[ph], the group guidance is assuming here
that Sandoz would remain with the group for the entire year, we would expect sales to grow lowOn the next slide, I detail a bit more the Sandoz guidance. So for 2023, we expect the top line for
Sandoz to grow low to mid-single digit and the core operating income to decline low double digit.
Now this core profit decline reflects the required standup investments and transition costs to
separate Sandoz and some continued inflationary pressures. Clearly, with this setting, 2023 would
be the trough year for Sandoz core margin given the expected added cost to stand up a public
company.
Looking ahead, with respect to Sandoz's midterm potential, sales are expected to grow low to
mid-single-digit CAGR and the core margin is expected to expand to the mid-20s, driven by
continued sales growth and operational efficiencies, especially as a standalone lean generic
company.
On Slide 43, I would like to add some perspective on the other key financial elements of our
expected core net income performance. In short, we expect both core net financial result and
core tax rate to be broadly in line with 2022.
On the next slide, I would like to go into a little more detail about the tailwinds and headwinds
facing core operating income growth in 2023. So the expected drivers of future core operating
income growth include, of course, continued performance of our end market growth drivers and
the acceleration of recent launches, such as Pluvicto and Leqvio. We also expect China growth to
accelerate, benefiting from a return to normal in the second half of the year.
Additionally, our simplified organizational structure is expected to continue delivering SG&A
savings. And of course, we will continue our ongoing productivity programs. Growth will be partly
offset by inflationary headwinds, which are expected to continue in 2023. On inflation, some
further details as we saw it in -- finalizing in 2022. In 2022, the inflation impact you saw was a bit
higher than expected in quarter four. So for the total company, we estimate that the 2022
inflationary impact was approximately $350 million. However, this was, of course, more than
offset by cost control and productivity savings.
In 2023, we expect the inflation impact to be slightly higher, also including some above-normal
merit increases at approximately $0.5 billion. This has been fully considered in our 2023 bottom
line guidance. The other headwinds are generic erosion of Gilenya in US and potentially to
Sandoz in the EU, and the standup investments, as discussed, related to the likely Sandoz spin-
off. Despite the headwinds, we continue to anticipate further margin expansion in 2023 and
beyond due to the expected sales growth and productivity progress.
Finally, on Slide 45. We thought it would be helpful to go into some detail regarding the currency
impacts expected, especially given the significant fluctuations of the last months. As you saw in
quarter four, currency had a negative 7% point impact on net sales and a negative 9% impact on
core operating. If late January rates prevail for the remainder of 2023, we expect the full-year
impact in 2023 of currencies to be much lower. On the top line, it would be zero to positive 1%,
and on the bottom line, slightly negative with minus 1%. As a reminder, we update this given the
volatility monthly on our website.
And with that, I hand back to Vas.
`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thanks, Harry. Moving to Slide 47. Just wanted to make a note that we continue to focus on
our goal to be one of the leaders in impact sustainability and our approach to ESG as well as just
delivering on our core purpose. 290 million patients reached with our Innovative Medicines and
our global health portfolio, 453 million patients reached with Sandoz, a broad pipeline acrossvarious technology areas, numerous new drug approvals and multiple recent innovation
highlights. Just to highlight that we think the greatest contribution we make to the world is based
on our ability to discover, develop, and ultimately scale and launch new medicines to people
across the planet.
Then moving to Slide 48. In closing, eight priorities that will really determine our path going
forward. We're transforming the company to a pure-play IM company, five core TAs, five core
technology platforms and our core geographic focus is a focus on the US; nine multibillion-dollar
potential brands; a real emphasis on improving our R&D productivity towards high-impact assets
and high-value assets; a focus on key DAs[ph] and building depth in those DAs; improving our
financials, as you've seen with the margin delivery and the ongoing efforts we have to continue to
improve the overall financial picture; shareholder-focused capital allocation as we've shown with
our dividend increase, share buybacks, and continued approach to how we dispose or move
forward with assets such as Sandoz to our shareholders and continuing to strengthen our
foundations with ESG and human capital.
So with that, we can open the line for questions. If the colleagues on the line could limit
themselves to one question, we'll try to make it through the list a couple of times.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) We will now go to our first question. And the first question comes from
the line of `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Thank you very much. I'm going to go with a big-picture question to start with, because I'm sure
others will dig into the detail. Vas, it's on drug pricing. The incoming chair for pharma in 2023, I'd
love your perspective on whether the industry sees any success in normalizing the 9 versus 13
exclusivity for small molecules versus biologics. And also your thoughts on EU pricing pressures.
There seem to be a lot of pressures building in a number of your core markets, in Germany and
France and others, and also some worrying legislation in front of the European Commission. I'd
very much love your thoughts given the Vas' exposure there.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Matthew. So first, our guidance already factors in the various headwinds we see in
pricing around the world. So that 4%, 40% and then also the guidance in 2023 already factors this
in. So that's an important, I think, caveat.
So to your first question on -- in the US, there's three core priorities that we have as an industry to
take forward now. One is to correct the distortion of the 9 versus 13 small molecule -- or NDA
versus BLA. Second is a focus on PBM reform. And the third is continuing to improve the 340B
program so that it can actually deliver on its intended purpose for patients in low-income settings
and who benefit from various programs from federally qualified healthcare clinics.
Now on your specific question on the 9 versus 13, I think we have very good arguments as to why
this creates an unintended long-term innovation distortion, which disadvantages small molecule
and related medicines for the Medicare population, indication expansions in cancer, medicines
that take longer to ramp in cardiovascular disease or in respiratory disease. So all things that
need to be considered. I think the key thing will be when, in the coming years, there's a legislativevehicle for us to be able to pursue that. But it's a top priority of the industry. And I think at least
my belief is our industry when we come together to really focus on a topic and have a very clear
compelling policy case and a relatively small pay for, from a congressional standpoint, that we can
make it happen, that's going to be our total focus as a sector in the US.
Now on the EU pricing pressures, it's a little bit of a mixed bag. Certainly, we are concerned by
some of the actions in the UK, actions -- proposed actions in France. Germany has had some
headwinds. But overall, the German environment, we'd say, is relatively positive and workable. But
I'd say, broadly speaking, I think we as a sector need to do a better job clarifying the policymakers
that in order to invest in innovation in Europe, we need a pricing environment that rewards
innovation, particularly when it improves outcomes for patients. And this can be seen as a place
to constantly cut costs, especially relative to the rest of the world. So that's going to be our focus
to try to educate. But for us, I think Germany remains most attractive market. And therefore, I
think from a financial outlook standpoint, we feel comfortable with the guidance that we've given.
Thank you, Matthew. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank Of America, Bank of America. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank Of America `
Great. Thanks for taking my questions. So it's on Pluvicto. So it's now annualizing over $700
million, which I think was pretty close to your peak guide for the vision-labeled indication. So is
that a steady-state number? Or can you see growth expanding from this quarter-on-quarter? So
have you hit your supply capacity constraints now until you get more supply coming online? And
could you just underestimated the vision population here, given it's penetrated so quickly?
And then on your capacity into next year, you said that the number of doses around 250,000.
Correct me if I'm wrong but that would equate to around 50,000 patients, which is over $8 billion
of revenue potential at US prices. So perhaps just give us a feel for what you think the top peak
numbers for this drug could be in the context of the 2 billion that you've been putting into the
slides for PSMAfore and PSMA+. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Graham. So first, I think from a demand standpoint, I would say our initial estimate of the
vision population have underestimated the potential of this population, and the demand would
suggest to us that there are a greater number of patients and providers interested in this
medicine. So we certainly have not fully penetrated the vision population in the United States. And
really, it's a question of us continuing to expand our capacity to meet what is a much larger
interested population than we initially expected. And so, we're working towards that.
As I mentioned, we're working with multiple sites to have online over the course of this year.
Ideally, and if all went according to plan by the middle of this year, but that's dependent on
regulatory action, and then additional sites towards the end of this year as well. So we would
expect if we can meet the demand that there will be continued growth from the vision population
in and of itself.
Now I think beyond that, with the PSMAfore, PSMA+, we certainly see this medicine becoming a
very significant medicine for the company, assuming the data reads out positively over the
coming readouts. That will take, of course -- the readouts have to come through, but we'repreparing from a capacity standpoint to have this be a very large medicine for Novartis. And you
see that -- I also mentioned we're preparing as well as to add additional facilities in Asia. We have
advanced already planning on those two additional facilities. So we'll be ready to make this
medicine around the world available to many prostate cancer patients as we can.
Q - `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank Of America `
And so just to be clear, have you reached capacity already or is there further capacity that you can
still fill with increased demand?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
We have further capacity versus Q4, but we certainly need to continue to work to further expand
the capacity given the size of the opportunity, the size of the demand that we're seeing. We have
some limited additional capacity versus Q4, but we need to expand further to fully meet the
demand for sure. So I think from how you model this, I think in the first half of this year, it should
be modest growth as we work to expand the facilities. And then assuming we get to facilities
online, we would hope a ramp up then in the second half as those -- that additional capacity
comes online. And then moving into next year, of course, we have the additional capacity,
additional geographies and then, hopefully as well, the PSMA+ population as well.
Q - `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank Of America `
Okay, thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Stephen Scala, Analyst, Cowen from Cowen. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Stephen Scala, Analyst, Cowen
Thank you very much. We noted that the Phase 2 data for your obesity agent, MBL949, is due in
May. I don't believe Novartis has stated the mechanism other than it's not an incretin. Can you
confirm that it targets anti-ActR3? And is it the same as or similar to the molecule you previously
out-licensed? And I'm also curious on the same topic, why you didn't highlight it on Slide 20? Are
you not excited about this target or are you not excited about obesity? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Steve. So it's -- I can say definitively, it's not related to BYM, the molecule that we
out-licensed. We are not disclosing the mechanism of action. You are correct that we do expect
the readout in quarter two. And the simple reason we didn't highlight on the slide is we view it as
a high-risk, high-reward program. Now they're all high risk, high reward, but I think particularly for
agents of obesity, the key is can we find a dose and schedule that leads to both profound weight
loss and a tolerability profile. And I don't know -- I've not seen the data, so I don't know. But I
mean, that's the key question, and that's why we didn't -- chose not to put it on the slide until we
have further data, which we'll have in the second quarter. And then, of course, we'll provide an
appropriate update at that time.Q - `Stephen Scala, Analyst, Cowen
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research, Wolfe Research. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Thank you. On Cosentyx, what's driving the higher Medicaid channel mix? And could that
somehow increase further? Or might it actually reverse out as Medicaid enrollment numbers
potentially shrink with the US declaring that the pandemic is over? And then an update on
formulary positioning in '23 in terms of lives covered and a preferred spot. And also, if you can
comment on whether there's any new access restrictions and what the rebating was like in '23
relative to prior periods?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Tim. All great questions. So first, on the Medicaid increase. First, it's important to
note with a brand like this, $3 billion of net sales, significantly more gross sales the actual
percentage variation here is not huge. Nonetheless, we don't have a great handle on why exactly
the Medicaid came up a bit more. But one of the drivers was certainly, we had certain special
higher discount agreements with certain Medicaid plans. Those have now expired. And so those
would no longer be in play for the coming years. And so I think overall, we expect to see the mix
goes up and down year-to-year. But overall, we expect to see the mix stabilize back to what
we've historically seen prior to this situation we had in 2022.
In terms of formulary, it's largely in line with what we had in 2022. We see no significant shifts or
changes in terms of formulary position, access. Overall -- given the overall scheme of things when
we look at gross, they're in line with 2022. So that's why we feel good in the US that on an annual
basis, we will be able to deliver sales that are in line with what we saw in 2023 -- with what we
saw in 2022, and then the growth would come from the new indications.
Again, I just want to highlight that for the first half of this year, because of the fact we took all of
that Medicaid charge in Q4, and when you lap the prior years, the base is not fully adjusted. So
you are going to see a lower relative Cosentyx sales in Q1 and Q2 because of the base effects of
taking all of that Medicaid rebate into quarter four. But I think the bigger picture on this brand is
our ability to deliver new indications, new formulations. That's really where we have to focus. And
then the continued expansion in Asia and China as well as in Europe. Thank you, Tim. Next
question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Societe Generale from Society Generale.
Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Societe Generale `Good afternoon. Thank you so much for taking my question. On Slide 30, on Leqvio, there is a
chart showing the sales that -- and the Entresto sales as well, the monthly sales. Do we have to
understand that the Leqvio should continue to trend with the same pace as Entresto? Or, as you
suggested last year, we should see an inflection later this year in the fact that we expand the
number of sites that could prescribe the product? So some color on that would be helpful. Thank
you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Florent. I think -- we just want to overall indicate that the launch is in line with other
major cardiovascular launches, where we've been able to generate very large medicines, and
you've seen how Entresto continues to perform. I don't exactly -- we continue to hope for the
inflection point certainly in the second half of the year. It's hard to predict exactly when it would
happen. There are a few things that give us confidence. We should see some acceleration in the
back half of this year. One is the free trial offer program that we had rolled out will expire, and we
hope that those patients will convert into paying patients in the second half.
Second, with that 7,000-plus physicians that I mentioned, we expect to get greater depth in
those physicians over time, which should also drive greater growth as well. We also see an
increasing comfort with buy-and-bill versus the alternative injection centers. And as that happens
as well, we generally see physician sites prescribing more of Leqvio because they can do it in-
house without having to refer a patient out. So all of those would be the positive tailwinds we
would see towards the second half of the year. I think broadly speaking, we feel comfortable with
where our consensus is on Leqvio for the full year 2023. And then our goal remains to make this
into a very significant multibillion-dollar medicine over the coming 5 to 10 years.
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies from Jefferies. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies `
Hi, thanks. I have a question on oncology. Just obviously, there was a lot of emphasis on
radioligand therapies, and that was highlighted some of the new and upcoming ones you have as
well that are coming through Phase 1/2. There are relatively few other sort of priorities in
oncology highlighted within the pipeline. And so I wonder if you could still say, first of all, if you just
sort of view on your KRAS and the opportunity there, given also what we've seen develop in that
market. But also ociperzumab, is that now discontinued or is it just delayed that you continue to
evaluate TIGIT? And sort of more broadly, is this still an area which you could see further business
development? Or do you think this arena obviously less focus from Novartis? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Peter. So I think on oncology, I mean, it remains a huge focus for the company. 40%
of our R&D budget is focused on developing the next wave of oncology medicines. Within solid
tumors, in addition to the radioligand therapies, where we have now a growing portfolio across
neuroendocrine prostate, we have a range of other indications we're taking Lutathera into. We
have the anti-Integra, the (inaudible). We recently are hopefully bringing in a folate as well. So we
have a broad portfolio within RLT where we see a significant opportunity.We continue to also pursue the TIGIT through the deal we have with BeiGene, and we have that
as an option deal. We also are assessing what other lines of therapy to take that digit into given
the competitive landscape, that's something we're actively evaluating. And then in terms of other
active programs that are in Phase 3, certainly the KRAS and the KRAS G12C are continuing. Our
overall perspective is a critical thing now is to demonstrate efficacy in a combination setting. We
think we've seen now from the sales performance of the mono G12C inhibitors. While important
for a certain group of patients that have the mutation, much more important is can you ultimately
demonstrate tolerability and efficacy of the G12C with a PD-1, with a (inaudible) with other agents.
And that's something that we're working through to see. And that would really, I think, give us
more confidence that this could be a very significant medicine.
Now earlier stage within the NIBR portfolio, we have a range of different assets that we're
pursuing. We have a few targeted protein degradation agents that are advancing now into Phase
1/2, a couple of novel targets in non-small cell lung cancer as well as other solid tumors. So that
whole space continues to progress. As you know, oncology has a high level of failure rate. So I
don't want to oversell it, but I think we're certainly working to continue to find the next wave of
solid tumors.
And then we active -- are active in the BD&L space. And I think if we could find attractive assets
within our core cancers: lung cancer, prostate cancer, the gastric GI cancers, et cetera, those are
certainly things we would actively look at. I would say in hematology now between scemblix,
iptacopan, ianilumab, we have some pretty -- building on the legacy, of course, of Gleevec,
Tasigna, and Promacta/Revolade, we have a pretty good portfolio in hematology. And then, of
course, with now YTV moving into the first-line setting in large B-cell lymphoma, a nice portfolio to
continue to keep -- maintain our strength in hematology over time. Thanks, Peter. Next question.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenhiem Securities from Guggenheim
Securities. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenhiem Securities `
Okay, great. Thanks for the question. So can you maybe just give us a sense of what the team is
doing to extend the IL-17 franchise beyond Cosentyx exclusivity in 2029? There's obviously a
number of high-value immunology assets out there in development, we're just interested to
know what Novartis is doing beyond that. And maybe if you could, would you mind commenting
on how you see the HS landscape evolving going forward, given some of the data that we've
seen for bimekizumab and then potential competitor MoonLake as well. Thanks so much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Seamus. So first on IL-17A and the Cosentyx portfolio overall, of course, I think we're
actively working on and looking at Cosentyx LOE[ph] 2029. We have additional patents that go
into the 2030s, which will, of course, actively prosecute as well. We have a range of oral anti
immunological agents we're pursuing in-house. So oral IL-17A and as well as other oral agents.
And of course, actively looking at external opportunities as well in that space, if we see
compelling data. So I think I think that's going to be really critical for us to look at. But of course,
we have time and something we'll work through over the coming years.
I also would say that in my between iinilumab, remibrutinib as well as other programs we have
now advancing through the pipeline, we're also prepared to pivot not to be -- not just focused onpsoriasis, PSA, and AS, but also try to move into -- really be a leader in areas like Sjogrens, SLE
and other immunological illnesses, as you mentioned, like HS.
For HS, our view is that our 52-week data is very compelling. We think this will really be a space
where a long-term data is what really matters. We think our 52-week data relative to the TMS are
very good. We're aware of other IL-17A is coming. I think what's important to note is this is a very,
very undertreated patient population. These patients generally have given up and generally are
not coming in for therapy. So the real opportunity here is to get these patients to know that there
are better therapies available, and that will create, I think, a large market opportunity, where
multiple players can be successful. Given that these agents are looking like they have better
efficacy and safety than the anti-TMS. (Technical Difficulty) anything to say about other
mechanisms at the moment. In-house are pursuing other mechanisms as well against HS to try to
make sure that we cover our bases. We have evaluation of our anti-CD40 ligand. We're
evaluating remibrutinib, our BTK inhibitor. So we have a range of efforts looking at HS, and of
course, we'll see which ones pan out in-house.
Next question, operator? I've been advised that really remind everyone to please limit yourself to
one question. Appreciate it. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi from Citi. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi `
Thank you. Questions on Pluvicto. Looking at your patient access, Vas, demand clearly materially
exceeds supply currently for the product in the US. Could you just outline your confidence of FDA
approval for the mid and end-year for the new facilities? Just given the recent track record of
Leqvio plus you have a new facility, what is the risk of that dragging on? And connected to that,
how should we think about the future competition from Point and Lantheus with their existing
isotope in prostate? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I think with respect to the files we're ready to file, the site and we're in discussions with
FDA to have filed the Millburn site. And the time we get the okay to file is the four-month review
clock for that additional facility.
Our Indianapolis facility with multiple large-scale automated lines, we plan to file in quarter three
as well to the NDA. And again, it would be an addition of additional sites. So we would expect a
four-month approval time. And so we're doing everything we can to make that a reality. And we
plan right now for those sites. Our base plan is for those sites to come online this summer and
then later on this year. And then we'd have adequate supply to fully meet the demand of the
vision population as well as the PSMAfore population.
Now I think in terms of the competition, it's important to note this is extremely difficult
manufacturing. This is just-in-time manufacturing that requires really logistics expertise. We
currently source the entire US market out of an Italian site and do it successfully. And we believe
we've built up substantial know-how and expertise with the relevant sites to give us a strong
competitive position.Now other players, of course, are going to come in and try to launch, the question will be, do they
have the same scale and expertise that Novartis does to be able to navigate that complexity and
really ensure that they can meet the demand? So that's kind of our outlook right now. We feel
good about -- by the middle of this year, we'll be in a very strong position to meet the supply. I
would also note for Leqvio, because I noted your comment on that product. I mean, we have a
large-scale line now that's up and running in Switzerland, which makes us the largest producer of
siRNAs in the world. So I think we're good on gene therapy, RLT, and sRNA manufacturing. We
feel very good with the approach we've taken. And I think we're in a very good place on all three
of them.
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs. Please
go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Hi. Thank you for taking. One big picture, one for you, Vas. With the proposed separation of
Sandoz, kind of Novartis will become a focused innovative medicines company. Once that
transaction is done, are you done with kind of the process of changing the shape and structure of
Novartis or do you think there is more kind of you want to do relative to the size and the shape of
the Innovative Medicines company that will be left at the end of the Sandoz transaction?
And just kind of linked with that, I know kind of (inaudible) has been hiring kind of the higher kind
of some people like Dr. Yang, et cetera. But just more broadly, how far along the process of
building that kind of growth and strategy functions set under Rony is kind of Novartis today?
When do you think that might be done? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Keyur. Broadly speaking, our strategy was to get to become a pure-play innovative
medicines company, design the company in the right way. We started that journey in a principled
way five years ago. Of course, there was a pandemic for 2.5 years in the middle of that, so it got
a little more complex. But now I think we have the right set-up post the Sandoz spin with a
geographic focus on the US and ex US. And from a commercial standpoint, really committed and
renewed leadership in R&D and then the strategy and growth function to really identify external
and internal opportunities that can drive the growth.
So I think post that time period and post seeing through the transformation program we
announced last year and the relevant restructuring, I think we'd be then in a position to really just
focus on execution. We need to execute on our launches, execute on our pipeline, execute on
our productivity, continue to generate that mid-single-digit sales growth and that attractive core
margin over time, and then that becomes the core of what we do day in and day out, continuing
to look at attractive external assets to add on over time.
Ronny's team is getting built out, I think off to a strong start. A much more integrated -- the most
integrated approach now that we've had that I'm aware of, at least in 20 years, is the R&D
portfolio management, it all falls under one roof now in terms of how we look at the R&D
portfolio, an integrated approach to taking commercial input into the earlier stages of research
much more focused on key TAs and being much more disciplined in saying no to projects that are
of strategy. So I think all of that's coming together, it's been four or five months for Ronny, it'sbeen two months for Fiona Marshall, but I feel really good that this is a great team that can
deliver that innovation horsepower we're going to need as a pure-play company.
Thanks. Next question.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Emily Field, Analyst, Barclays from Barclays. Please go ahead,
your line is open.
Q - `Emily Field, Analyst, Barclays `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. I just wanted to ask a question about iptacopan. This US filing in
the first half of this year include both PNH trials? And then -- because I know you mentioned that
you're running the SWITCH for the frontline patients as well. Just trying to get a sense of
commercialization strategy across the PNH spectrum. And then just I know you have BTD for this
asset, just how long of a regulatory review you might be expecting? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
So with iptacopan, yes, we'll be following both studies, both the refractory and frontline study as
part of the package, and that's aligned with FDA. We do have used a priority review voucher as
well for this asset to really ensure that it's approved in a rapid time frame. Even though we had
breakthrough therapy designation, we don't want to take any risks with respect to this particular
filing to make sure that it happens as fast as possible.
With respect to our overall strategy with iptacopan, when you look at this market, we believe that
it's 60% to 70% of patients who, on current anti-C5-based therapies, are not adequately
controlled, and those patients could be switched to iptacopan based on the data we presented
at ASH and assuming the final label supports it. And so that's a substantial opportunity for the
medicine.
We know that potentially up to 60% to 70% of diagnosed PNH patients are not on a therapy
today. And they come on, I think, in a few different categories. Some are subclinical or not quite
clinically severe enough. And the question is with a twice a year safe oral, is there an opportunity
to get more of those patients on therapy because it may be physicians or patients were holding
off wanting to be on -- in regular infusions. So could an oral therapy open up that market.
I think there's a set of patients also who have gone back to taking transfusions, having now failed
prior therapies. That's another opportunity. And then there's probably a set of patients as well
that are just in the watch and wait mode. So that will be an opportunity for the medicine as well.
So we think there's multiple places. It will take us time to drive this launch. So this will not be fast
given the strength of the incumbent position. And then also that this significant group of patients
not on therapy has to get mobilized.
And we believe over time with the compelling data that we have and the recognition that a twice-
a-day oral could be a really compelling option, we can build a very significant medicine on PNH,
then expand into C3, IgAN, AVOS, IC-MPGN, and then subsequent indications thereafter.
Next question, operator.
OperatorThank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Vosser, Analyst, JP Morgan from JPMorgan. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Richard Vosser, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. Just going back to Kesimpta and obviously, very strong. We're
going to see another launch for another CD20 this year and coming around now from TG
Therapeutics, obviously an IV, but lower price. How do you see that impacting Kesimpta this year?
And maybe also we're going to see subcutaneous data, how do you see that as well in the future
around the launch? Thanks very much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Richard. So the way we look at the MS market, the one, as I mentioned, you have
50% of patients that are not on B-cell therapies, 50% on B-cell therapy. So there's a substantial
market opportunity just to get more patients in the first-line, first-switch setting onto high-efficacy
B-cell therapy. So there's plenty of room for growth just for Kesimpta and getting some more of
those patients.
The second thing based on our understanding of the market is that there are sets of facilities and
health systems that prefer infused medicines, and there are those that prefer providing patients
subcu medicine. And we see those as very stable. So really, this market is a split market. You have
a market of physicians who want to give infused medicines and there is a large proportion of the
market who want to give patients the opportunity to have at-home subcu administration.
Within that subcu, we don't see any at-home administration relevant competition for the coming
years, and that's very much our focus area. Within the IV segment, there is now competition and I
think that competitive dynamic will be an important one for us to observe. And I think to your
point, Richard, will the opportunity of having subcu physician-administered medicines expand the
number of centers that might be interested in a physician-administered approach, we don't know.
Nonetheless, the market opportunity ahead of us, with the 50% of patients not on B-cell
therapies and the substantial number of physicians who prefer providing an at-home
administration, that's the opportunity for this medicine, and that will give us plenty of room to
grow over the coming period.
Thank you, Richard. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn from Redburn. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn `
Thank you for taking my question. Just going back to Leqvio. Vas, you briefly touched on buy-and-
bill. I just wonder if you could give us a little bit more detail on the progress you're making there. I
ask because, on one hand, there was a fairly negative article earlier in the month on like to
(inaudible). But on the other hand, we see in September and December last year, quite a
significant uptick in traffic to the Leqvio Access website. So I just wonder if you could give us the
latest picture there. Thanks so much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `Yeah. Thanks, Simon. Look, there's no question that buy-and-bill is a new approach that
cardiologists need to understand and get implemented to their office. That said, we know there
are many specialties that have successfully done that -- ophthalmology, oncology, rheumatology,
neurology. So this is something that can be done. Is it -- does it take time? Yes. Do you have to
work through many hurdles? Yes. Do you have to get all the staff to understand a new approach?
Yes, absolutely, but it can all be done.
And as I noted, now that we have over 7,000 physicians that have taken action on Leqvio, 1,800
facilities ordering Leqvio, a steady increase in conversion from facilities that were previously using
alternative injection centers to now implementing buy and bill in their facility for Leqvio. I think
we're getting to a place now where physicians are getting more and more comfortable with the
concept. And what we generally see is once a physician has one patient go through the process
and they understand that it is something that's manageable, then it becomes something
relatively straightforward for their office and then they take it on relatively quickly.
So we have to get up that curve, but we're seeing, I think, positive trends. And we'll just keep
working through it, keep also hopefully having clinics be able to educate one another about the
experience of how buy and bill ultimately works and get that further implemented. So I wouldn't
read too much. And you can always find probably a physician to tell you any process is onerous
and terrible. But I think broadly when we look at a large-scale data set, we see steady progress
on this front.
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Michael Leuchten, Analyst, UBS from UBS. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Michael Leuchten, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you. Question for Harry, please. Just going back to the Sandoz operating expenses into
2023. I mean that's the biggest delta that your consensus really looking at the composition of
numbers for this year. Harry, how much of these expenses are standup costs? And how much is
sort of prepping for manufacturing shift as well? This just seems a meaningful amount that is
coming into the P&L. Is that purely just separation costs or is that already including sort of longer-
term expenses that already hit 2023? Thank you.
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thank you, Michael. So overall, I would say, if we take out these standup and transitionary
costs, the (inaudible) Sandoz in '23 would be flat. So it's a low double-digit decline comes from
that. If you think about, right, Sandoz delivered $1.9 billion core operating in'22, so we talk about
roughly plus/minus $200 million of cost block. Out of that $200 million, about $70 million to $90
million will be real standup costs, corporate costs, and so on that Sandoz needs to operate as a
separate public company. And the other half, if you will, will go away over time, as the fully
transition into a public company. That would naturally go away as these transition costs are not
anymore needed after a couple of years.
Of course, also the corporate cost -- there will be corporate costs. But clearly, Sandoz has plans
to reach in the midterm, the mid-20s margin by then streamlining the overall operations, SG&A
structures as they are a stand-alone company. So I hope that gives you a bit more flavor on that
guidance for this year, which really should be a trough year. And then after the separation,relatively quickly come off that, including, of course, taking over transitional service costs, like for
IT over time, quite quickly, usually maximum two years on such services.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Harry. Thanks, Michael. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Emmanuel Papadakis, Analyst, Deutshe Bank from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Emmanuel Papadakis, Analyst, Deutshe Bank `
Thank you for taking the question. Perhaps I'll take one on Kisqali. You've reiterated the over $3
billion pre-sales potential for the adjuvant indication. So perhaps you could just help us
understand how important do you think a clinically meaningful benefit in both of the two key
subpopulations in the trial is intermediate risk and higher risk in terms of realizing that potential
(inaudible) positive? And how would you define clinically meaningful in terms of either absolute or
relative iDFS benefit in that population? And indeed, is that something you actually disclose with
the headline or have to wait until details are presented? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Emmanuel. So the trial right now is overall designed for an endpoint across both patient
populations. And so there -- in order to hit the primary endpoint, we need to hit across all
populations. Now the question would be would FDA parse the data and say that it was driven by
the high-risk population and then potentially take a different approach, we can't judge. But the
way we've designed and powered the study is across the entire group. And so from a
prespecified analysis on the primary endpoint, it would be for both the intermediate and the
high-risk, of course, with the relevant secondary endpoints.
I'd also note that we've aligned with FDA that key for us is to show no detriment in OS. As long as
we can demonstrate no detriment in OS at the time of that readout, that would be the case. So I
think you could expect a headline on, whenever it comes, on the iDFS. And then if relevant OS or
not relevant the OS, we would not say anything on the OS. And then we'd have to have the
discussion with the agency to determine how they would like us to cut the data.
From our competitor data, there was a threshold that was applied for a certain subpopulation Ki-
67 and then later adjusted. So these are all things that we'll have to determine as part of the
review process. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thanks. Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Yeah, thank you. `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Thanks for taking my question. On iptacopan,
first, could you help us understand, when you say the nine-month analysis could potentially
support US subpart H filing, how should we think about the sort of probability of moving forward
at that point versus, obviously, out of 2025 or so and slowing progression of IgAN before you can
approach the FDA with your package?And then sort of related to that, obviously, a much bigger population in IgAN versus PNH and
C3G, (inaudible), should we think about sort of sub-population of the 185,000 patients you
estimate with IgAN, which would be a target hill? Or would you sort of launch this as a completely
separate brand? I'm trying to think about what Novartis' broad ambitions might be to build out a
portfolio of primary care and rare renal assets given your commercial capabilities across the
platform.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Mark. So first on the endpoint for IgAN. We saw in the Phase 2 data, Phase 2b data,
I think a reduction in proteinuria across the very statistical analysis that we've done. And that's the
basis for us designing the Phase 3 study. So we feel good that if we hit the required slope of
reduction that we target that, that would allow us to file with the FDA. Though I imagine it will also
come down to the totality of the data. But certainly, our base case is that if we hit the primary
endpoint on proteinuria, that should give us the basis to file. And then, of course, we would look
at eGFR and other endpoints in 2025 that would be more meaningful after further follow-up.
Broadly speaking, for our Factor B (Technical Difficulty) so focus on PNH, C3G, ASOs, IC-MPGN,
coldlutent disease and the related spectrum of illnesses. When we're in a more common illness
like IgA nephropathy, our focus is on more severe patients to be able to maintain the ultrarare
pricing. We do have follow-on Factor B inhibitors that we plan to take forward in broader
indications. You'll know that we do have a program for iptacopan evaluated in geographic atrophy
and related retinal diseases. And if successful, we would actually use the backup compound for
those broad indications, and that's how we're thinking about splitting out across the whole Factor
B enterprise. Thank you. Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Parkes, Analyst, BNP Paribas, BNP Paribas. Please go
ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Richard Parkes, Analyst, BNP Paribas `
HI. Thank you very much for taking my question. It's just another one on Pluvicto. You've outlined
obviously, you'll have manufacturing capacity to allow you to address the majority of the
PSMAfore population by 2024. Could you talk about the other hurdles and limitations on your
ability to penetrate that population, including referral patents, proportion of patients care in the
community, and access to nuclear medicine facilities, just so that you can help us scope out the
opportunity? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Richard, what we've seen thus far is there's about 500 facilities we believe we would need
to be able to provide Pluvicto, at least in the US market, to reach the demand -- the potential
patient population across the three indications that we have. We're able to -- currently servicing a
little over 200 of them, and we expect that to expand over time.
I think what's going to be the next challenge because the demand, as we've noted throughout
the call, much higher than we expected, and I think folks on the call expected, frankly, is actually
having the centers have enough infusion chairs to be able to provide the therapy to enough
patients. So that's the next constraint beyond once we relieve our supply constraint later in the
middle of this year to then work with the centers to have a better estimate of what the number
of patients they think they will need to provide radioligand therapy to a day and ensure they haveadequate chair or bed capacity to be able to do that. Because I think that will be, as we get into
broader and broader patient populations, that will be the next constraint we'll have to then work
through. There seems to be a lot of enthusiasm in the urology and nuclear medicine community
to do that, so I expect it will happen. But that's something we're going to have to work through
over the coming quarters.
Next question. And this is the last question, I think, it's Steve. Steve?
Operator
Thank you. Just opening Steve's line. Stephen, your line is open.
Q - `Stephen Scala, Analyst, Cowen
Hi. I assume you're calling on Steve Scala. So I'm just wondering, what is your specific assumption
for the profile of Merck's oral PCSK9 for which data is coming very near term, in terms of both its
LDL lowering and its safety. I assume your view is very cautious, which supports your high
enthusiasm for Leqvio, but what sort of role do you think an oral PCSK9 ultimately could have in
this marketplace? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Stephen. I'm glad you asked that question. Our view -- and we had an oral PCSK9
program which we've deprioritized. We are pivoting cardiovascular research into -- in Novartis and
to infrequently administered siRNAs, ASOs, et cetera, to get to -- first, as you know, we have
PCSK9. We have combination programs, of course, we have Lp(a), follow-on programs with
various combinations. And the goal would be to say, can you get to combinations at six months or
long-acting at one year, with the belief that over the last 25 years, we've learned that compliance
to orals in this market is low. Statins are 30%, other therapeutics are in a similar range. And if we
really want to tackle cardiovascular disease scale, we need to get to infrequent administration.
So we have Leqvio as a starting point. We're going to work very hard to extend past, get the 9 to
13. But we're anyway going to have life cycle management working on long-acting Leqvio,
working on combinations with Leqvio. And our goal will be very much to have a combination
sRNAs that can cover the relevant mechanisms of action for cholesterol-lowering so that patients
won't need oral drugs anymore. Because we think that's where medicine is heading and we think
that's what sRNAs, long-acting ASOs, and similar technologies can deliver. So hence, we
deprioritized oral systematically on cardiovascular at Novartis and focus on these -- this next wave
of technologies and therapies.
Q - `Stephen Scala, Analyst, Cowen
Very interesting. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Steve. All right. Very good. Thank you all for joining, and we look forward to updating you
further at quarter one. Take care.
Operator
Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. Thanks for participating. You may now
disconnect.