Y 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning, and good afternoon, and welcome to the Novartis Q4 2023 Results Release
Conference Call and Live Webcast. Please note that during the presentation, all participants will
be in a listen-only mode, and the conference is being recorded. (Operator Instructions) A
recording of the conference call including the Q&A session will be available on our website shortly
after the call ends.
With that, I would like to hand over to Mr. `Samir Shah, Global Head of Investor Relations, Global Head of Investor Relations. Please
go ahead, sir.
`Samir Shah, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, and good morning and good afternoon, everybody. Thank you again for
listening to our full year results and Q4 results.
The information presented today contains forward-looking statements that involve known and
unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors. These may cause the actual results to be
materially different from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied
by such statements. For a description of some of these factors, please refer to the Company's
Form 20-F and its most recent quarterly results on Form 6-K that, respectively, were filed with and
furnished to the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
And with that, I'll hand across to Vas.
`Vasant (Vas) Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `Thank you, Samir, and thanks, everyone, for joining today's call. I know it's a busy day with many
companies reading out, but we hope to provide you some insights into our Q4 2023 results, and
also some perspectives on the outlook for Novartis in 2024 and beyond.
If we move to the first slide, Slide 4. As you saw in our earnings release this morning, we
delivered a strong full year performance with margin expansion and strong innovation
momentum with 10 positive Phase 3 readouts over the course of 2023. As a reminder, our full
year guidance at the start of the year was quite a bit lower than where we ended up and we had
multiple earnings upgrades over the course of the year, demonstrating, I think, the strong
business momentum we have at the Company. Q4 sales, up 10%. Core operating income was up
13%, and on the full year, we were up 10% on sales and core operating income up 18%, all in
constant currencies. And Harry will go through this in more detail in a few moments.
We also had the successful spin-off of Sandoz as a really value-creating event for Novartis and our
shareholders. We provided our updated 2024 guidance where we expect to grow mid-single-
digit and core operating expected to grow high-single-digit, and we've chosen to be prudent
with this guidance at this point in time. And then looking to our mid-term guidance, which I'll also
go through in more detail, we've extended our mid-term guidance of 5% constant currency
CAGR growth to 2023 to 2028, and continue to hold to our core operating income margin
guidance of 40%-plus by 2027.
So, moving to Slide 5. This year was a really critical year for the Company cause we completed
the -- because we completed the transformation of Novartis, and we believe really laying a
strong foundation for our future growth. Since 2014, we have spun-off both Alcon and Sandoz in
shareholder-friendly ways. We have exited our OTC stake also in a shareholder-friendly approach
and exiting -- creating a new OTC company with GSK. And also importantly exited our Roche
stake, completing a $15 billion share buyback, and then continuing $15 billion share buyback, which
is ongoing currently, and we expect to complete by mid-2025. That leaves us as a pure-play
innovative medicines Company with a margin of 36% on its way to the 40%-plus, strong free cash
flow, and a strong innovation engine, which we think positions us well for the long run.
So, moving to Slide 6. When you look at Q4, most importantly, with the underlying growth of our
key growth drivers which grew 40% overall on the quarter, and that growth rate we expect to
continue, that underlying growth is what gives us confidence that we can grow mid-single-digit in
the coming years and then continue that growth in 2028 and beyond in the mid-single-digit-plus
range. A combination of these growth drivers, as well as strong pipeline productivity, puts us I
think in a strong position to be a consistent grower over the next decade.
Now, moving to Slide 7. And I want to just walk through each of the brands to give you some
perspectives and then look forward to taking your questions. So, first, Entresto delivered 31%
growth, with sales reaching $6 billion, and we're well on track to reach our peak sales goal of $7
billion-plus. This growth was both in the US and ex-US geographies. You can see on our weekly
TRx, we continue to reach record highs. We had constant currency growth of 27% and 26% in US
and ex-US, and China and Japan contributed strongly with a strong performance with their
hypertension -- ongoing hypertension launches. So, going -- looking forward, we expect
continued growth for this brand. We maintain our guidance on for forecasting purposes that an
Entresto LoE would not occur until 2025, and we also maintain our guidance on EU regulatory
data protection to November 2026.
So, moving to Slide 8. Now, Cosentyx reached $5 billion in 2023, and we expect to see at least
mid-to-high single-digit growth in 2024 on our way to our guidance of $7 billion peak sales. Going
a little deeper into this performance, we saw 17% growth in the US and 26% outside the US. Thiswas, in part, in the US due to revenue deduction adjustments we had in the prior year, leading to
a lower base, but we are seeing very good momentum on our IV and hidradenitis launches in the
US, and in hidradenitis in Europe, which gives us confidence that Cosentyx can be a dynamic
grower over the coming years. We'll continue to keep you updated on how these launches
progress over the coming quarters, and then we also will keep you updated as well on the three
ongoing Phase 3 studies we have -- are progressing in Giant Cell Arteritis, PMR, and Rotator Cuff
Tendinopathy.
So, moving to Slide 9. Kesimpta sales in the full year doubled to $2.2 billion. We remain on track to
reach our $4 billion peak sales guidance. Strong growth in the US, but also now increasing growth
in Europe and in the ex-US markets. We currently see 85,000 patients treated with Kesimpta to
date. Our US growth is 48% in constant currencies, ex-US at 193%, and we have NBRx leadership
now in seven out of ten major markets outside of the United States. I think everyone knows well
the compelling profile we have in terms of efficacy and convenience, as well as the easy-to-use
Sensoready pen that patients can benefit from with Kesimpta. We have five years of efficacy,
safety, and tolerability. And we look forward to continuing to expand this brand, both in terms of
the growth of the B-cell class in MS, but also increasing our NBRx share within the B-cell class as a
key growth driver.
Moving to Slide 10. Now, Kisqali reached $2.1 billion in the metastatic breast cancer setting and we
maintain our $4 billion peak sales guidance in the metastatic breast cancer setting alone. You can
see this growth again was driven by both the US and our international business. Our rolling NBRx
share in the metastatic setting is now up to 46% and we see continued strong growth in the
metastatic setting. This is driven by the statistically significant OS we have now across three
pivotal studies, the NCCN Category 1 designation, and the median OS of five years we've
demonstrated across those three pivotal trials. We can confirm that we have filed in the EU, US,
and China, the adjuvant indication across intermediate and high-risk breast cancer, and we look
forward to keeping you up to speed as we progress towards hopefully those approvals and
launches over the course of this year.
Now moving to Slide 11. Pluvicto full year sales closed out near blockbuster status at $980 million.
Importantly, now we see unconstrained supply for this brand. We maintain our multi-billion dollar
peak sales guidance for the current indication, and I can say we see very strong demand signals
and growth dynamics in January, consistent with our expectation that as we clear the supply
constraints and some of the challenges we saw in quarter four, we would get back to strong
robust growth in quarter one 2024, and what we would expect is robust quarter-on-quarter
growth over the course of this year.
Some more details in terms of treatment sites, we have over 300 US sites now that are active
and regularly ordering. Fully unconstrained supply, where 99.9% now doses injected on the
planned day, with a capacity of 250,000 radioligand therapy doses expected in 2024, with the
approval now of our Indianapolis site. We have a network expansion ongoing to prepare for
launches in Asia with announced investments in both China and Japan. And as I already noted, we
expect robust quarter-on-quarter growth over the course of 2024. Our PSMAfore expected US
submission is second half 2024 and we'll keep you updated as we progress towards that. And we
also remain on track on our -- both our PSMAddition and PSMA localized oligometastatic disease
trials to move Pluvicto into earlier lines of therapy.
Now moving to Slide 12. Scemblix had a strong year and strong quarter, moving up now to $125
million in quarter four 2023. This is in the third-line setting where we have leading third-line
market share, NBRx share of 43%, TRx share of 22%. I think, as you all well know, there's high
unmet need in the third-line setting, and over 50% of hematologists really want improvements inquality of life and a better management of side effects, and Scemblix really delivers that. Now we
have four years of follow-up that really demonstrate its differentiated profile in terms of efficacy
as well as a very clear and strong safety profile. So, the global rollout in the third-line setting is
ongoing. We have approval in over 60 markets. We have access granted now in over 25 markets,
and very positive feedback from payers on the clinical benefit.
Now moving to Slide 13. We read out earlier this month the ASC4FIRST trial, which met both its
primary endpoints with clinically meaningful and statistically significant results in the front-line
setting for Scemblix. As a reminder, this study had Scemblix compared to investigator choice TKI.
We estimate 50% of the patients were on imatinib and 50% of the patients were on second-gen
TKIs, nilotinib, or dasatinib, or bosutinib. Both primary endpoints were met. We showed superior
major molecular response rates at week-48 versus standard of care, and we also had a very
favorable safety and tolerability profile with fewer AEs, treatment discontinuations, and no new
safety signals observed. So, we're very excited about this data. Importantly, MMR is a good
predictor, a reasonable predictor of important endpoints such as PFS, OS, and EFS. So, this data
will be presented at an upcoming medical congress. We're moving rapidly towards a submission
in the first half of 2024, and we look forward to sharing this full data set and really providing our
conviction that Scemblix can be a multi-billion dollar medicine for Novartis.
Now moving to Slide 14. Now, Leqvio continued its steady expansion in the US as well as across
regions. You can see here, we delivered $123 million on the quarter growth in both our
international and our US business. On the US side, we have 3500 facilities now ordering Leqvio,
which is a 13% growth versus quarter three. 55% of that business now is coming from in-office buy
and bill. And we expect to continue to drive growth on this brand by driving depth in our key
accounts as well as expanding the buy and bill acquisition channel. Ex-US, our rollout also
continues well with 29 countries with public reimbursement, 39 countries with private coverage,
and we see very positive, solid early signals in China in the self-pay market, which we would
expect to continue over the course of 2024 ahead of a proposed NRDL listing in 2025. In terms
of the outcomes trials, we remain on track for our secondary prevention outcome studies in
2026, and we also continue to enroll our primary prevention studies as well.
Now moving to Slide 15. Fabhalta now is launched in the United States and we see I think very
positive early launch signals, but we do expect a modest ramp for this brand given the dynamics
within the PNH market. As a reminder, we have very compelling data for this medicine, including
improvement in hemoglobin, transfusion avoidance, IVH, intravascular and extravascular
hemolysis control, and a very clean safety profile. Our populations in our label are both -- are
adults with PNH, both naive and switch patients, which was our target label for this medicine. And
with a -- as an oral therapy, we think we really provide a unique offering for patients with PNH.
There is a REMS requirement, but this is similar to other complemented inhibitors.
Right now, as we look at our launch, our focus very much is, coming out of ASH, getting patients
up on our patient support program, getting our REMS up and running. Our first patients have
already been initiated and what we're hearing is positive HCP sentiment, interest from patients
and peer groups, and our goal will be initially to focus on newly diagnosed patients, as well as
patients who are not currently under full control for their hemolysis with their existing therapies.
Over time, we would want to certainly expand this market. We estimate half of patients with PNH
are currently not on therapy, and with an oral agent, we have the possibility, we hope over time,
to get more patients on therapy to avoid any of the subsequent sequelae associated with PNH.
Now moving to Slide 16. As noted in 2023, we had 10 positive Phase 3 readouts with significant
sales potential. You see them listed here. A lot of this data will be presented over the course of
2024, so you'll have a better understanding of the potential of these medicines, whether it'smedicines like Remibrutinib. We have already seen the Lutathera NETTER-2 data, which I think is
really outstanding, and hopefully some of you saw that potential now for Lutathera on the front-
line setting. Of course, the data for Atrasentan and Iptacopan, and the Scemblix data which I've
already mentioned.
So, moving to Slide 17. I just want to say a word of some of the topline readouts we had in quarter
four. Iptacopan had another third Phase 3 readout with a positive -- positive Phase 3 readout with
clinically meaningful and statistically significant proteinuria reduction in patients with C3G
glomerulopathy. You see here on the left, the Phase 2 data which we previously disclosed. In
Phase 3, we had a study design versus placebo looking at month six before patients crossed
over to Iptacopan on both arms. We saw this really important proteinuria reduction and safety
profile consistent with what we've seen in previous data and we're currently engaged with the
regulatory agencies with a goal for submissions in 2024.
Now, moving to Slide 18. Over the course of the year, we had positive readouts both on
Iptacopan and our newly acquired Atrasentan in IgA nephropathy, clinically meaningful results
here as well. Both of these programs have been reviewed with the FDA and we're on track for
submissions of these medicines that would really allow us to have, I think, a robust portfolio of
medicines to bring to nephrologists in IgA nephropathy, and then in the future, C3G, as we
continue to try to build out a nephrology presence around the world. Zigakibart, our anti-APRIL
antibody also acquired from the Chinook acquisition, is also on track in its Phase 3 study.
So, moving to Slide 19. Now, we expect our innovation momentum to continue in 2024. This will
be a year of data readouts, full data readouts, and submissions, primarily for the Company. We
expect a few Phase 3 starts, but importantly as I mentioned, key data readouts and submissions.
We'll keep you posted on as we progress.
And when you look at Slide 20, this is where -- why we have confidence as well that we'll have a
steady stream of innovation to drive the Company's growth beyond 2028 with the number of
exciting, I think, assets we have '24 - '25 as well as the '26 - '28 time frame. This will create a
steady flow of replacement power and innovation, enabling us to drive that mid-single-digit
growth rate beyond.
Now moving to Slide 21. Over the course of the year, we also signed 15 strategic deals, exits as
well as acquisitions, totaling over $6 billion. I do want to emphasize, our core approach in M&A
remains as bolt-on acquisitions in the sub-$5 billion space. Deals such as Chinook, but also many
smaller deals you can see across the full landscape here. Very much focused on technologies like
xRNA, gene therapy, and RLT, as well as our key therapeutic areas like -- such as Chinook
amongst others. We also continue to invest in artificial intelligence on top of our collaborations
with Microsoft and Palantir. We've also signed agreement now with -- an agreement now with
Isomorphic Labs of Google's DeepMind, which really allows us I think to be partnered with some
of the most preeminent AI researchers in the world to speed up our drug discovery and drug
development.
Now moving to Slide 22. We did also today extend and update our mid-term guidance. You'll
remember, at R&D Day, we had noted '22 to '27, 5% CAGR. And today, given the momentum
we're seeing on our growth drivers and the strong pipeline performance we're seeing, we're
extending that 5% growth guidance to '23 to '28. Now, of course, up until '28, we do have some
Gx impact, which I'm sure we can discuss further in the Q&A. But the momentum we're seeing in
our in-market growth drivers across our base business, across each of the brands which I've
already discussed, as well as the positive data we've seen in Fabhalta, Scemblix, Remibrutinib,and Atrasentan, gives us confidence now that we can continue that 5% growth up to '28, and as
we've already guided, mid-single-digit beyond that.
So, moving to Slide 23. I want to close with just a word on ESG, which remains very much a part of
the Novartis strategy and Novartis approach. We focus on innovation and access to medicines,
human capital in terms of our work on DE&I and culture, as well as ensuring that we're amongst
the leaders in environmental sustainability and ethical standards. When you look at our
performance now, we're number one in Sustainalytics, in the leaders group in MSCI, and also
amongst the leaders in important other benchmarks such as access to medicines and CDP. We
plan to continue that, of course, in 2024.
And so with that, on Slide 24, I'll move -- hand it over to Harry.
`Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Thank you very much, Vas. Good morning, and good afternoon, everybody. I'm now going to
walk you through some of the financials for the fourth quarter and full year, as well as provide you
with our 2024 guidance. As always, my comments refer to growth rates in constant currencies
unless I would otherwise note that. Also throughout the presentation, I'm only going to talk about
continuing operations. And just as a reminder, that continuing operations include retained
business activities of Novartis comprising our innovative medicines business and the continued
corporate activities. Discontinued operations include Sandoz and selected portions of corporate
activities attributable to the Sandoz business, as well as certain expenses related to the Spin-off.
Next slide, please. This chart shows you the restated comparable numbers post the Sandoz spin-
off. I know history doesn't tell the future, but track record is important. And as you can see, since
2018, top-line sales growth has been 7% in average, bottom-line even 14% GAGR, and this has
resulted in a core margin increase of 990 basis points in constant currency to 36%. So, a very
clear path also from a margin standpoint to our 40% in 2027. This strong performance has
continued in '23 where we met or even slightly exceeded our upgraded full year guidance.
On the next slide, yes, just a little comparison here on the '23, shows a top-line growth of 10%.
We guided to grow basically high-single-digit last one, but we upgraded three times through the
year and we started with low-to-mid single-digit. It's really a testimony to the excellent business
momentum that even strengthened throughout the year. And then core operating income at 18%
and again here we could -- we were able to upgrade three times and could even slightly exceed
the guidance we gave in October of mid-to-high teens.
On Slide 27, a bit more detail about the 2023 performance, which I will go through by quarter and
full year. On the quarter, top-line growth was 10%, core operating income grew 13%. As
outlooked in October, quarter four of '22 was a very high-profit quarter to be compared to, given
that we were in the middle of our restructuring then and that's why we guided to full year to
where we were, in already assuming that quarter four bottom-line growth would be a little bit less
than the nine-month bottom-line growth, but still resulting in a margin improvement of 1
percentage point and core EPS at $1.53, and so a good quarter. For full year, top-line grew 10%
and for core operating income we delivered 18%, leading to a 2.4 percent point margin increase.
Core EPS was $6.47 and the full year cash flow was even more than $13 billion, another significant
growth also on the cash flow side, as outlooked, therefore we were over our guidance and a
strong full year result with also a strong quarter in absolutes, but of course, the comparable base
was a bit higher.
Now, Slide 28. So, we're continuing to create significant and sustainable shareholder value. As youinvesting in the business as well as returning capital to shareholders. In terms of investing in the
business, of course, R&D is the key focus, in addition to launch and prelaunch investments. And
from a business development and M&A -- business development M&A perspective, it is value-
creative bolt-ons in our core therapeutic areas. In terms of returning capital to our shareholders,
the focus has been on a consistent growing annual dividend in swiss francs, which has not been
rebased post the Alcon nor the Sandoz spin-off. And with regards to share buybacks, we
continue, of course, our most recent share buyback of up to $15 billion announced in July 2023,
with up to $12.7 billion to be executed still by the end of 2025.
Now, we got some questions as we paused share buyback for a few weeks in January as we had
to adjust our trading plan. Just to ensure everybody is clear, we will restart during the next days,
and it's our full intention to complete that share buyback as mentioned by the end of 2025.
Besides all of that, we have of course also created shareholder value through numerous strategic
actions like divesting the consumer, healthcare joint venture stake, spinning-off Alcon, and
divesting the Roche stake at CHF356 and of course, importantly and most recently, the
successful completion of the spin-off Sandoz on October 4th last year.
We go to the next slide, please. Now, talking about the successful spin-off of Sandoz, on the day
of the spin and subsequently, both Novartis as well as Sandoz share price and the implied market
capitalization have increased quite significantly. Since the day of the spin-off, October 4th, until
yesterday, just to have the exact numbers from last night's closing, Novartis' market cap has
increased by over 11% and Sandoz over 28%. So, in total, as a result of the spin-off and of course
subsequent market movements, a combined value of over $28 billion has been created for
shareholders continuing to hold Novartis and Sandoz share. Again, as a reminder, we are not
rebasing our dividend post the Sandoz spin.
Speaking of the dividend, let's go to the next page. Yes. We are pleased to propose the 27th
consecutive dividend increase to CHF3.30 per share; in US dollars, even $3.92, and this is based
on the CHF320 last year. So, an increase of 3% in Swiss francs and 12% in US dollars, with a
dividend yield reaching close to 4%. And it's fully in line with our policy of increasing our dividend
every year in Swiss francs per share without rebasing it post the Sandoz spin.
Now moving to 2024. Our full year guidance is for sales to grow mid-single-digit and core
operating income to grow high-single-digit. In terms of the drivers of core Op Inc for 2024,
pushes and pulls are similar to 2023 and we fully expect our positive business momentum to
continue. However, this prudent guidance assumes that there will be a higher generic impact in
2024 versus 2023. I'm sure we will discuss this later on in the Q&A. For forecasting purposes, we
assume no US Entresto generic entry in 2024. And to complete our full year 2024 guidance,
please note that we expect core net financial expenses to be around $0.6 billion to $0.7 billion,
and the core tax rate to be around 16% to 16.5%.
Now, on to my final slide, there we go. Currencies, yes, so we have outlined some details
regarding the currency impact and as you can see, currencies had a negative 2-point impact on
net sales in both quarter four and the full year, as well as negative 8-point impact on core
operating income for the quarter, for a negative 7 points for the full year, driven by the strong
Swiss franc. There was a special effect on core Op Inc in quarter four by about 2 points due to the
mid-December Argentina devaluation and then we had to catch-up basically to hyperflation
accounting instructions, IFRS guidelines, and the full effect in quarter four. Those 2 points
worsening due to the Argentina in quarter four. If late January rates prevail for 2024, we expect
the full year impact of currencies to be less than in '23 and on top-line, it would be a negative 1%;
and on the bottom-line, it would be a negative 3 percent point currency impact. And as areminder, we do update this every month on our website as it is hard to forecast from the
outside, but you get a monthly update on it.
And with that, I hand back to Vas.
`Vasant (Vas) Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thank you, Harry. So, in conclusion, if we go to Slide 34, we had a very strong 2023,
multiple guidance increases, double-digit growth for sales and core Op Inc, I think really reflecting
that our focused strategy as a pure play innovative medicines Company is the right one and really
delivering strong operational performance. We met or exceeded our strategic operational and
innovation targets, including the successful Sandoz spin-off, 10 positive Phase 3 readouts, all with
significant sales potential. And we're confident in -- for 2024 and in the mid-term, where we now
guide to 5% constant currency sales '23 to '28, and a 40%-plus margin in 2027, all building of
course, on the longer term goal to maintain that mid-single-digit sales growth '28 and beyond.
So, with that, we can open the line for questions. As the operator mentioned, we'll limit to one
question per analyst, and then we'll come back through the list again. Thank you very much.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We will now go to our first question. And your first question
comes from the line of `Matthew Weston, Analyst, UBS, UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you very much. It's Matt Weston from UBS. My one question is around the growth in SG&A
that we saw in 4Q and what it means for 2024 guidance. So, there was a significant step-up in
commercial spending. Vas, you mentioned in your opening remarks that you felt that 2024
guidance was prudent. Is the 4Q step-up bringing forward or front-loading launch spend given
the exciting opportunities you have in '24, or is that level a good indicator of the cost acceleration
we should expect for the full year? Any help gratefully received.
A - `Vasant (Vas) Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Matthew. I'll hand it over to Harry. Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Hello, Matthew. Good to have you around. Hey, I think, quarter four came exactly in as we
forecasted for the year and outlined our full year guidance in October. So, I think we have to keep
this a bit in perspective and not over-react to short-term consensus thinking, because in the end,
we increased our function cost in the full year like 3% in constant currencies, with a growth of 10%
on the top-line. I tried to explain, maybe it was not very successful, in October, that quarter four
of '22 was a very low spend quarter because we were in the middle of a big restructuring. Now,
quarter four spend is -- has a usual seasonality of higher spend levels versus the first three
quarters. In '22, that was a bit muted. We are back to that normal pattern. So, you should have no
worries about our cost to development for '24. Our guidance of continued margin improvement
is absolutely bulletproof because of our top-line growth as well as our productivity programs. And
everything in '23 came in as planned.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, UBS `Perfect.
A - `Vasant (Vas) Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, UBS `
Many thanks, indeed.
A - `Vasant (Vas) Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Matthew.
A - `Samir Shah, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi from Citi. Please go ahead.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi `
Hi. I'm not sure if Dave is on the call, but someone might like to take this question relating to your
cardiovascular outcome trials. I've previously asked about why not unblind the ORION-4,
particularly given the pressures from the IRA in the nine years prior to price negotiation. I'd ask
the same question about HORIZON. These are very high-risk secondary prevention patients. We
know that it's a highly atherogenic particle. And again, you've got the same issue for nine years.
So, is there any possibility of either of these trials being unblinded before the publicly stated
dates? And maybe you could also opine on whether the bipartisan efforts to try and reclassify
advanced therapies for 13 years rather than nine-year exclusivity is going to start to move? It's
obviously very relevant to you, given Leqvio, pelacarsen, and Pluvicto, etc. Many thanks.
A - `Vasant (Vas) Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thank you, Andrew. So, right now, there is no plans to adjust our thought process on waiting
for these studies to run to completion. I think, as Dave outlined in the R&D Day, we continue to
believe, by having a longer follow-up, we're more likely to deliver very differentiated
cardiovascular risk reduction in ORION-4. And I think with respect to HORIZON, our powering
calculations and the approach that we have taken both with very high-risk Lp(a) patients, as well
as the kind of medium-risk patients, requires us to follow these patients out through 2025.
That said, we're very cognizant of your points, and we do debate and discuss them, especially in
light of the IRA. I think a few things we're doing, first on the policy front, there is bipartisan
support for an amendment on I think the nine to 13 on so-called genetically-targeted therapies.
However, I think it will still be some time, and likely not during this year given it's an election year,
for that to really move forward. But we're hopeful that we can progress that over the coming
years to enable that to move to nine to 13, along with our broader policy goal as an industry to
move nine to 13 across all small molecules.
We also continue to invest in lifecycle management for our entire siRNA portfolio. We've struck at
least a few deals now that really target annual dosing for siRNAs most recently with a company
called Atlantic Therapeutics. And there we have multiple targets now that we're pursuing to try tomanage in the event that we need to, ahead of that nine-year time frame. So, those are the
approaches we're taking but we obviously take your feedback seriously and we'll continue to
evaluate accordingly.
A - `Samir Shah, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Societe Generale from Societe Generale.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Good Afternoon. Thank you very much for taking my question. A quick one on your mid-term
guidance. You have updated this guidance, but now starting from the higher base from 2023, I
was just wondering if there is anything new versus the last update as last year and if you see, let's
say, new drivers that would help to achieve this mid-term guidance. Thank you.
A - `Vasant (Vas) Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thank you, Florent. I think a few things. So first, in terms of the growth drivers and what we
overall saw in the quarter. In quarter four and on the full year, you see very dynamic growth for
Kesimpta, for Kisqali, I think strong growth for Lutathera, Scemblix. And we also saw the return of,
as I mentioned, strong demand signals for Pluvicto, all of which gave us confidence in those
brands' outlook towards our peak sales guidance.
In addition, we have now the approval of Iptacopan and the Iptacopan-positive and Fabhalta-
positive data across PNH, C3G, and IgAN, which gives us more conviction that this medicine will
be a multi-billion dollar medicine as well. So, that I think all was on the positive side from our in-
line brands.
And then importantly, with the Scemblix first-line data where we saw I think really we believe will
be potentially practice-changing data, this has an opportunity now as well to be a multi-billion
dollar medicine. So, taking all of that together, that growth momentum for our in-line brands and
strong pipeline performance gave us more conviction in that long-term guide.
I would also note, of course, Kisqali now is also filed for medium and high-risk women with early
breast cancer. So, I think all of it gives us positive signals and momentum to continue that 5%-plus
guidance up to '28.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Thank you very much.
A - `Samir Shah, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America, Bank of America. Please go
ahead.Q - `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America `
Great. Thanks for taking my question. So, it's on Pluvicto. So, the number in the quarter was a
drop-off quarter-on-quarter. I think you said in Q3 that you've actually seen about a 50% increase
in patient starts. But also there was an offsetting factor here of sicker patients not getting the sort
of the last two doses. So, just help us with the dynamics of why that increase in patients you saw
in Q3 didn't translate into a higher sales number in Q4. And then on sites, I think you said 300. So,
how many are you targeting for 2024, and given you are supply-unconstrained, is this actually
now the rate-limiting step to getting to the multi-billion number that you've talked about for the
vision indication? Thank you.
A - `Vasant (Vas) Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Graham. So, on Pluvicto in quarter four, we saw a steady rebuild, but I think we did
not see yet the full replenishment of the base of patients given that we still had supply
constraints into the August -- July-August timeline. And so over the course of quarter four, we
saw more patients getting on therapy, which then, of course, gives us the four to six doses on
those patients, which rebuilds that base. I would also say during the holiday period for -- we did
see less, as we were expecting in the Christmas period and Thanksgiving period, these patients
tend not to want to have the therapy given the radiation can lead to -- it does lead to a restriction
on being around children and other loved ones. So, I think those dynamics did play a role. But we
did see growth in new patient starts in Q4 versus Q3, but the growth was not, I think, as strong as
maybe what the external world predicted.
We had tried to guide in quarter three to the expectation that we would be to around a $1 billion,
which is exactly where we are at the $980 million mark, but perhaps we should have been more
clear on our outlook and expectation. All of that said, we, of course, can track this on a daily basis,
and we see strong growth in demand, strong overall dynamics, and we continue to expect to see
robust quarter-on-quarter growth for Pluvicto over the course of this year, getting us back
towards that multi-billion dollar outlook that we've guided to in the vision population.
Q - `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America `
And centers?
A - `Vasant (Vas) Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And centers, sorry, Graham. Yes. So, our goal is to get to 500-plus centers, and we're expanding
now rapidly. I think centers are probably one constraint, and then I think the other in terms of the
growth and so we expect to have -- add the -- add centers at a steady clip over the course of this
year. And then we also are encouraging physicians now that supply is unconstrained to treat
earlier. So, therefore, the average number of patients moves more towards six doses per
patient, which will certainly be our goal over the course of the year. I think both of those dynamics
will fuel growth for this brand over the course of 2024.
Thank you, Graham.
A - `Samir Shah, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Next question, operator?
OperatorThank you. Your next question comes from the line of `John Priestner, Analyst, J.P. Morgan from J.P. Morgan. Please go
ahead.
Q - `John Priestner, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Hi. Thanks very much for taking my question. So, you said that the 2024 guidance includes the
impact of generics, which we assume is for kind of Promacta and also Tasigna. So, what's the --
what are your thinking behind the actual timings of those generic entries? And also you also said
that the 2024 guidance could be somewhat prudent. So, what are some of the key kind of levers
that you could execute on to kind of exceed that guidance? Thank you.
A - `Vasant (Vas) Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, John. So, there is three generic entries we would expect over the course of the year,
but we are not in a position, I think, to provide specific guidance on when these entries would
happen, given the, I think, unpredictability, both, in terms of our own goals to defend our IP, as
well as supply for some of these parties. The three would be Promacta and Tasigna, as you
noted, as well as Sandostatin LAR, where there is no approved generic, but no product in the
market. We, of course, would provide updates when these would enter over the course of this
year. But I think, we -- this is our current forecast and we'll see, of course, how we -- how things
evolve.
Now in terms of our full-year performance, Harry, in terms of the prudent guidance?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. John, thank you very much. I mean, we will not say when, we assume, right, this is all for
financial forecast assumptions. Of course, we do appropriately defend our IP when possible. Of
course, on Sandostatin LAR, there is no IP anymore. It's more about the ability of the generic
producer to produce. It's a very difficult to produce product. On the other hand, we have basically
distributed these three potential entries for forecast purposes over the quarters. There's a bit of
a generic portfolio play if you will. And now if all of them will come a bit later, then we may have
an upside to our guidance. So, that's what we meant with that. And of course, overall, we do
assume that our key growth drivers continue to perform very well. But it's a bit difficult with these
three different generics to make assumptions and so, we do them in a prudent way. And there
could be changes to this if either one competitor cannot produce, or we have some upside on
the LoE and patent defense, if you will, on the other two.
Q - `John Priestner, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Very clear. Thank you.
A - `Samir Shah, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research, Wolfe Research. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research `Thank you. On Cosentyx, a question on pricing and market access dynamics in '24 just in the US,
with multi-source biosimilar Humira on the market now, albeit only for six to seven months, were
you seeing any access tightening in '24, such as more step edits given indication overlap? And if
not in '24, then do you think it might tighten in 2025? And then also on this topic, just the level of
US net price erosion in '24 relative to what it was last year?
A - `Vasant (Vas) Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Tim. In terms of Cosentyx, we actually feel pretty good about overall the access
environment for 2024. We've had modest gross to net shifts overall for the brand, and we have a
broader access in some of the major accounts versus what we've had in the past. We haven't
seen any, let's call it, increased impact from biosimilar adalimumab. We think this is mostly
because we are contracting within the IL-17A class, and given our track record in the class and
large position, that's enabling us to manage the overall access environment successfully. I have
not seen, to my knowledge, any increase in step edits either with respect to Cosentyx access.
Now, I think, looking forward, obviously always difficult to predict. I think some of the tailwinds we
have going for us is the new indications in hydroadinitis, which of course, at least for now, we're
only one of few medicines that have that indication, which gives us strength in terms of formulary
negotiations. Hopefully, some of the other indications come through as well. Separate from that
as well, with Cosentyx, we've launched in the IV setting as well, and that's also another, I think,
important growth driver for this medicine over the coming years. So, overall, I think pretty stable
position for Cosentyx, at least for 2024. And of course, as we understand better 2025 and
beyond, we'll keep everybody updated.
Next question? Thanks, Tim.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn Partners, Redburn. Please go ahead.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn Partners `
Thank you for taking my question. And it's another one on Cosentyx. I wonder if you could give us
your thoughts on the expectation of the uptake for Cosentyx in HS? I've had some clients
suggesting it's slower than expected given the quality of the profile and the positive of the
competition (technical difficulty) of it. How do you see the potential and the uptake there over the
course of the next year or so? Thanks so much.
A - `Vasant (Vas) Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Simon. I think it's early days, so I think -- I don't want to I think get too far ahead, but
so far we've heard positive feedback overall from clinicians. I mean, Cosentyx has an outstanding
long-term safety profile. I think that's been well established now over many, many years. Doesn't
have some of the safety topics that some of our competitors may have. And so I think that allows
us to have a very strong comfort level with dermatologists for treating these patients. And as
well, overall, the efficacy, I think, is solid and with the opportunity to give these patients a safe,
efficacious option. And as you know, the big challenge in HS is really getting patients to come in
to be treated given that it's been so long since there have been new medicines that have been
launched since the TNFs were indicated for this condition. So, I think solid early start, and we'll
certainly see how the quarters unfold. But I think the safety profile and the overall comfort level in
dermatologists gives us a very good position for this launch.Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn Partners `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Kerry Holford, Analyst, Berenberg from Berenberg. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Kerry Holford, Analyst, Berenberg `
Oh, thank you. A couple of questions for me, please. Firstly, Kisqali, when do you expect that drug
to become eligible for price negotiation under IRA? And given when we're moving towards, I
think, a patent expiry 2031, can you talk to the lifecycle management options available to you
here? When I look at the Novartis pipeline, I see few breast cancer-specific assets, but perhaps
I'm wrong, and any feedback you could give there, any areas of interest would be gratefully
received.
And then business development, clearly you've been somewhat busy over the last twelve
months. What's your appetite for deals moving into 2024, size, therapeutic category? Is RLT still
an area of focus, M&A, business development? Many thanks.
A - `Vasant (Vas) Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Kerry. So, first on Kisqali, as you know, it's not a precise science to predict IRA for these
patients. I would also notice in the early breast cancer population, these patients are younger and
tend not to be in the Medicare population. So, I'd say we really see this being another topic for
Kisqali towards the end of the decade, but importantly, it would only affect the portion of our
sales that are in the Medicare population. And we'll of course, as we learn more and understand
better how the program will unfold, we'll keep you all updated. But we think we have a very good
runway now for this medicine for the coming years, both in metastatic and assuming approval, in
the early breast cancer space.
In terms of lifecycle management in breast cancer, of course, the one opportunity is other CDK
targets which we are pursuing in-house, and that's something that we are looking at within our
research labs as well as potential for combinations. And that's another topic for us as well. We
also continue to advance early-stage programs with RLTs in breast cancer as well, not specifically
life cycle management of Kisqali, but give us the opportunity to bring forward radioligand
therapies in the breast cancer space, and that's an area of high focus for us at the moment. So, I
think a combination of novel targets in small molecules as well as radioligand therapies in the
breast cancer -- overall in the breast cancer space.
Now, in terms of business development, as I outlined in the slide, our strategy is very much to
focus on our four core therapeutic areas and our three key technology platforms. So, those
technology platforms are cell therapy/immune reset, cell and gene therapy/immune reset, RLT,
and RNA therapeutics, and I think that's well known. And in terms of size of deal, no change to our
overall approach of smaller than $5 billion bolt-on acquisitions, with the vast majority of those
deals being sub-$1 billion deals, and no change to our approach there from what we've previously
stated.
So, moving next.
OperatorThank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities from Guggenheim
Securities. Please go ahead.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities `
Thanks very much. So, just wanted to ask one particular question in terms of the sort of business
development strategy. I know, Vas, you've already talked about this, but wanted to get a little bit
more clarity on specifics around the sort of threshold that you've talked about publicly. Is that sort
of $5 billion and below threshold really still kind of the target range, or given the success that you
are seeing in some of the other areas of development, is there the opportunity to potentially go
larger in terms of the potential transactions? Just wanted to get a better sense of if you feel
there is more flexibility given the Phase 3 -- solid Phase 3 hit rate that you've had, or if you're kind
of sticking to your guns or to your knitting in the $5 billion and south range?
A - `Vasant (Vas) Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Seamus. So, really nothing, I think, to add beyond what I've already stated. We, of
course, look at the full range, as you would expect a Company of our size, a full range of
potential opportunities within business development. But what we consistently see is the
opportunities we have where there is the most significant opportunity for value creation, as well
as a differentiated view versus the market, is on the lower end of the range of deal values. And I
think that's why, when you look at the 15-plus deals that we did last year, vast majority are under
$1 billion or even under $500 million. We did Chinook at $3.1 billion and I think that's where we see
the best opportunities for us as a Company. I will never exclude that we would do anything if it
makes sense for our shareholders and makes sense for the long-term profile of Novartis. But our
focus is very much on that bolt-on sub-$5 billion, sub-$2 billion, $1 billion range programs. And
that's where I think we'll be.
So, moving to the next question. Thanks, Seamus.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Emily Field, Analyst, Barclays, Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `Emily Field, Analyst, Barclays `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. Just a question on Remibrutinib. How far along are you in the
recruitment of the MS trials, just given we've seen another partial clinical hold in the space? And
then, if you just remind us how your molecule is differentiated given we did see that Phase 3
failure after your R&D Day. Thank you.
A - `Vasant (Vas) Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Emily. So, you know on Remibrutinib, let me start with why we think our molecule is
differentiated. When you look at the structures and if you go back to some of our slides in R&D
Day, you'll see that our molecule has a different overall chemotype structure than some of the
other peers. We believe that the liver signals that have been seen thus far in this group of
medicines have to do with off-target toxicities related to the structure of the molecules.
So, we have a highly potent BTK inhibitor, a covalent BTK inhibitor that we think is unique and it's
at least so far in a clinical and preclinical work profile in terms of having any of those off-target
toxicities. So, we of course, already have read out two positive Phase 3 studies in CSU and plan
to file with the 52-week data in the second half of this year. We continue to pursue as well,safe profile and importantly at that dose range, 25 milligrams BID, we saw no liver signals in those
dermatology studies.
In terms of the MS trials, we continue to recruit on track. However, we don't expect a filing before
2026, if I'm not mistaken. And we did have a futility analysis looking at futility for non-inferiority to
our comparator and we passed that futility analysis. So, the program will continue, so we don't
see any safety signals. We've passed a futility analysis which we put in place given some of the
data that some of our peers have read out. And we'll continue to then to progress the study in
multiple sclerosis as well. We do believe Remibrutinib has the opportunity to be a significant
medicine across a range of indications, particularly as the safety profile continues to hold up
because of the structure of the medicine.
So, thanks, Emily.
A - `Samir Shah, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Next question, operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies from Jefferies. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. Just curious, I would come back to Fabhalta, Iptacopan. You sort
of had some more cautious commentary perhaps than you might expect for a new launch. I
wonder if you could just talk a little bit about, it does basically say, relates very specifically to the
PNH market and perhaps why are you not perhaps more confident that you potentially can't get
into some of those currently untreated patients sooner or does it reflect the REMS and the initial
program and perhaps impediments you're seeing getting this in front of doctors and through the
process than perhaps you had envisaged? And I guess how does that and the profile of the drug,
if at all, read into the potential rollout for the larger IgAN indication potentially in the future? Thank
you.
A - `Vasant (Vas) Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Peter. So, first on PNH. It's very much -- the uptake very much has to do with the
REMS, as well as some of the other elements that need to be placed, particularly vaccinations,
and so this takes time to put in place for this medicine, as well as our organization getting the
infrastructure fully up and running. We estimate 7000, 8000 patients with PNH in the United
States, roughly 3000 to 4000 of them being treated today. And so, in such an ultra-rare patient
population as well, you have a relatively high dispersion of physicians who are treating one or two
patients. It also takes time to reach all of these physicians.
It doesn't change our long-term belief that this is -- can become the medicine of choice for these
patients, given it's a twice a day safe oral medicine with high efficacy and I think a reasonable
safety profile overall. And that will just take time as we get physicians up to speed, either patients
in the position where they need to switch because they're uncontrolled over time, even
controlled patients, we would argue, would want to be switched, and then new starts as well and
then we do make efforts already to try to reach that half of the -- estimated half of the patient
population which is currently untreated. So, we just want to set reasonable expectations for the
first year, then we hope to ramp up thereafter.We do think that given our positioning in C3G and IgAN, C3G already also being an ultra-rare
disease. IgAN, we target refractory patients. Again, given that we're targeting a very select
patient population, we think we can absolutely manage the patient start process for those
patients and then ensure a very strong uptake for the medicine. And then if you look at the future
indications for Fabhalta, largely also in the ultra-rare space, which will then, I think as we build that
capability, we should be able to get patients on therapy sustainably over time.
Thanks, Peter.
A - `Samir Shah, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Parks, Analyst, BNP Paribas from BNP Paribas. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Richard Parks, Analyst, BNP Paribas `
Hi, thank you for taking my question. It's just following up on business development strategy. I
mean, it's been quite clear the last 18 months you're now very confident about growth through
upcoming LoEs for the business overall. But you still will have to absorb LoEs in specific
therapeutic categories in order to be thinking about Entresto. So, when you look at your
cardiovascular franchise, given that let those maybe been a bit slower, the cost and there is still
some clinical risks. Are you comfortable that you've got enough coming through (technical
difficulty) maintaining a healthy franchise and rather not to have any kind of negative leverage
post that, or is that an area where you would look to maybe be more active in terms of business
development to bring in later-stage products? Thank you.
A - `Vasant (Vas) Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Richard. We feel very confident with what we have in-house in cardiovascular
disease. When you look at it, we have Leqvio in secondary prevention and then moving to primary
prevention as well. We have Pelacarsen of the Lp(a) program. We have a program called XXB,
which we are currently moving forward in mid-stage studies in hypertension and heart failure, as
well as an oral version of XXB as well an NPR-1 agonist that we're also bringing forward. And as
I've noted, we have an extensive in-house siRNA effort targeting a range of lipid-lowering and
cardiovascular targets, as well as external collaborations that we've also now brought on board,
which we think allows us to cover most of the key targets which would be of interest for siRNA.
And our goal is, one, to move to new targets; two, to move to combinations; and three, also to
get to annual dosing, which we think is the right strategy in cardiovascular disease in the long run.
Of course, other companies are pursuing orals and fully understand that, but we believe that in
this space, given the compliance challenge over the long run, that's been demonstrated over
decades, having infrequently administered siRNAs on validated targets is the right strategy. So,
given all of that and the efforts that we have ongoing, we feel very comfortable with our internal
cardiovascular portfolio and pipeline.
A - `Samir Shah, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Next question, operator.Thank you. (Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from
Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Yes. Thanks for taking my question. On Kesimpta, as I -- hopefully, you can help us understand the
growth dynamics here and what NBRx leadership means, especially in light of the ex-US
acceleration. So when you think about B-cell, NBRx share, how does the ex-US share compare to
the US, where we get data from Roche? And then when I look at the NBRx leadership footnote, in
seven out of 10 markets, it just said data on file. So, could you help us understand, I guess, where
infusions are more of a barrier to treatment in some ex-US markets versus the US, where your
share stands relative to the alternative infused therapy in this space?
And then just a housekeeping. On Kisqali and the NATALEE filing, did you include no negative
patients in that filing? Thanks very much.
A - `Vasant (Vas) Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Mark. So, Kisqali, yes, no negative patients were included. On Kesimpta, so first on
the ex-US dynamics. I think first it's important to note, outside of the US, you don't have the same
structure as Part B for providing an infused medicine. And in many of these healthcare systems,
there's a preference to move patients out of the medical centers and medical homes and more
having at-home therapies. So, in those key markets, we really see a dynamic, I don't know the
specific shares offhand, but we see a dynamic where we are being a favored class of medicines
in some of the large ex-US markets. We have very strong performance in markets like Germany,
very strong performance in markets like Japan. And so, I think that's really just a reflection of
different dynamics in those markets where there's a preference for neurologists to provide
patients a medicine that's easy for at-home use. And we hope over time, as we now move
Kesimpta more broadly across Europe and Asia, we have the opportunity to drive significant
growth ex-US.
In the US, there is different dynamics. Right now, we estimate that the B-cell class share of NBRx is
in the mid-50% range, 55%, and over time, we expect that to continue to grow. Kesimpta's share
within the B-cell class is in the high 20%s, 27% to 30%, depending on when you look. And we right
now are growing with the B-cell class overall. But very much our goal over time is to grow our
share of the B-cell class, and that's something we're very much focused on. That will take, I think,
time for us to achieve, but that's going to be important if we want to get well beyond the $4
billion guidance we've already given. We think we can get to the $4 billion just by the march of the
B-cell class. But if we want to do better, we need to improve our B-cell class share in the US, and
that's something we're definitely focused on.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thank you.
A - `Samir Shah, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Steven Scara from TD Cowen. Please go
ahead.Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst `
Thank you very much. I'm curious, what happens with Entresto IRA price negotiation in 2026 when
generics can launch in 2025? It would seem that if there were an Entresto generic, then Entresto
would not be eligible for price negotiation. Is that how you see it? And has that come up in price
negotiations so far? If yes, then the best case it would seem for Novartis would be limited
generic competition, maybe even an authorized, which could turn out to be a plus for Entresto
revenue. Thank you.
A - `Vasant (Vas) Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Steve. So, it is a valid point, and our position would be if there is a generic that's
launched, that a medicine in our portfolio per the current guidance of the IRA, would not be
eligible at that point in time. So, that would be our view. But I think, as you know, there is many
things that are still unfolding with respect to the IRA negotiation. Obviously, we can't comment on
our approach to the various generic entrants and our approach on how to manage that.
I would say that, look, for Entresto, even beyond in the US, we guide to this 2025, mid-2025 LoE,
and a IRA. If we were to move, not have a generic enter in 2025, we would be IRA-eligible in early
2026. So, one way or another, we are going to have Entresto being impacted in this period of
time. What is important to note is, we guide to 5%-plus 2023 to 2028 growth, even with Entresto
coming out in the US, and also coming out in Europe, given the timeline of our RDP in Europe. So,
I think we feel confident we can grow well beyond the Entresto LoE or IRA, however, it ultimately
happens in that period.
A - `Samir Shah, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Matthew Weston, Analyst, UBS, UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you very much. Thanks for taking the follow-up. It's a follow-up on Pluvicto. Vas, I think at J.P.
Morgan and at the R&D Day, you highlighted PSMA-4 filing in 2024. Now it's the second half of
2024, so can you give us an update, has anything changed? And also, can you just give us an
update on your discussions with regulators? I know there's been a lot of discussion about the
modeled-control arm given the significant crossover. Can you give investors comfort that you're
still confident that it will be acceptable to FDA and regulators around the world?
A - `Vasant (Vas) Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Matthew. So, we don't have any updates, as the trial continues to accrue events. I
mean, based on our current estimates, we think a second half 2024 filing is the right timeline to
provide at this point in time. But of course, this will evolve as the events accrue. In terms of our
confidence level, nothing has changed. When you look at the overall data set that you saw last
year, you saw very impressive gains in rPFS, you saw impressive gains in ORR. You saw a high
quality of life improvement, a relatively clean safety profile, even versus ARPI comparator arm. So,
I think a positive safety profile overall.
So, we think we have a very compelling case. We think it's really a matter of getting to that higheras well as a tighter radius around the allcomers analysis as well for the OS. And so this will be, of
course, a topic of discussion with the FDA. But we think we can make a very clear and compelling
case that this medicine should be offered to patients in the pre-taxane setting. And then we also
are continuing, as I mentioned, to move forward rapidly on PSMA addition as well as Pluvicto in
the oligometastatic setting so we can cover all of our bases. I do think overall as an industry, we'll
learn more with some of the upcoming adcoms from other competitor medicines on how the
FDA is thinking about OS crossover and how to manage this. And I'm hopeful that overall patient
benefit is what ultimately rules out over some of the statistical pure -- pure statistical
considerations. Given that we are encouraged to utilize crossover in our studies to be patient-
friendly in an appropriate way, I think it's very important we start to be looking at the adjusted
analyses, otherwise, this puts overall the industry in a very challenging position.
A - `Samir Shah, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Next question. Operator.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America, Bank of America. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America `
Okay. Thanks for taking the follow-up. I just wanted to dig into some of the moving parts for the
guide on generics. You sort of made some sort of high-level comments there, but in terms of the
ability to manufacture, I assume that Sandostatin LAR, I think to have gotten approval December,
but is that a restriction, a legal one? So, is there any litigation around manufacturing, even if there
isn't around the approval, or is that a tech ops consideration there?
And then on Promacta, I believe there's no litigation outstanding. You have a salt pattern in 2026.
So, what are the moving parts for timing of a launch there? And is a 2025 or '26 launch on
Promacta even also still a possibility? Thank you.
A - `Vasant (Vas) Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Graham. On Sandostatin, we -- there is no litigation ongoing, I think, and I can't
comment on other companies' manufacturing capabilities. I think what we did observe in Europe
with the launch of generics is, there was limited supply available for those launches given the
complexity of the manufacturing, and we believe that's a complexity as well. That would still be
the case in the US. This is a very difficult medicine to consistently make and characterize and
release, but obviously, that's for the approved generic to ultimately determine.
So, we'll be monitoring to see how and when that product comes to market and in what volumes.
And in the meantime, as well, we very much are focused on our Lutathera front-line data, where
we, I think, presented really compelling data to make Lutathera the medicine -- front-line
medicine of choice. It's already on label. We're already promoting that to physicians, making sure
physicians understand the data set that we've now generated with the NETTER-2. That gives us
an opportunity as well to maintain our neuroendocrine tumor business.
With respect to Promacta, not much more I can add. We of course, continue to defend our IP, and
we'll do so and try to maintain the medicine's protection for as long as possible, but at this point
in time, I can't provide any further details or guidance on Promacta. For forecasting purposes,we're saying a generic entry in 2024, but as always, we defend our IP to the fullest extent
possible.
A - `Samir Shah, Global Head of Investor Relations `
Moving to the last question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your last question for today comes from the line of `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research, Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Thank you so much. Obesity, I think you've been asked this before, but quite possibly the biggest
therapeutic category, you guys have a big presence in cardiometabolic. How high of a priority is it
to enter this space? There are acquirable assets in clinical development, they fall into that sub-$5
billion range, why not move on one of them? Can't late interim products still capture revenues?
Or Novo are really just too far ahead to justify the cost of a competitive development program?
A - `Vasant (Vas) Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Tim. So, look, when we think about the obesity market, we very much look at it in the
lens of our presence in cardiovascular disease and wanting to ensure we have a presence that
enables future cardiovascular drugs we have in our pipeline to either be combinable or available
to patients with the full range of cardiovascular disease. So, it's certainly something we're
evaluating and looking at. Our current view is that, given the number of companies already
pursuing injectable and oral GLP, GIP-type of assets that we should be focused on, differentiated
assets that have novel targets or novel approaches, novel profiles, which is what we look at in
research, but, of course, we evaluate all the opportunities that are currently out there, given the
size of this market and the importance for cardiovascular health. So, obviously, if we find
something of interest, we'll pursue it. But at the moment, I can't really say anything specific about
anything we're looking at.
Perfect. Thanks, everyone, for joining. We look forward to keeping you updated over the course
of the year and wish everyone a great 2024.
Operator
Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now
disconnect.