Y 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning and good afternoon, and welcome to the Novartis Q4 2024 Results Release
Conference Call and Live Webcast. Please note that during the presentation, all participants will
be in a listen-only mode and the conference is recorded. (Operator Instructions) A recording of
the conference call, including the Q&A session, will be available on our website shortly after the
call ends.
With that, I would like to hand over to Ms. `Sloan Simpson, Head of Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations. Please go
ahead, madam.
`Sloan Simpson, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Sharon. Good morning and good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to our Q4 and
Full Year 2024 Earnings Call.
The information presented today contains forward-looking statements that involve known and
unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors. These may cause actual results to be materially
different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such
statements. For a description of some of these factors, please refer to the company's Form 20-F
and its most recent quarterly results on Form 6-K that respectively were filed with and furnished
to the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Before we get started, I just want to echo Sharon's comment for all of our analysts. Please limit
yourselves to one question at a time and we'll cycle through the queue as many times as we can.
And with that, I will hand across to Vas.`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Terrific. Thanks, Sloan, and thanks, everybody, for joining today's call to review our quarter four
2024 and full year results. So, moving to Slide 4, as you saw this morning, Novartis delivered one
of the strongest performances that we've had in our history in 2024. When you look at quarter
four, our sales grew 16% and core operating income grew 29% in constant currency. And on the
full year, we had 12% sales growth and 22% core operating income growth, with our margin
reaching 38.7%, well on our way to our goal of 40%-plus margin.
We also had important pipeline highlights in the quarter, including for Scemblix and Kisqali, which
we'll go through in more detail later on in the call. Overall, we met and exceeded our full year
guidance in 2024 and we're continued -- confident in continued growth in sales and core OpInc in
2025, as Harry will outline later in the call.
So, moving to Slide 5, our priority brands continued to drive robust growth in the quarter and I
think, importantly, that demonstrates we have the replacement power to consistently grow
through the end of the decade. Overall, this portfolio of brands grew 38% in constant currencies
and, excluding Entresto, grew 41%. So we feel very good about the momentum we have and this
is what gives us confidence in the 5%-plus sales guidance out to 2029 and the mid-single digit
growth we believe we can deliver in the long term.
Now, moving to Slide 6, Entresto achieved sales of $7.8 billion on the full year. That's up 31%. And
when you look at the left side, you can see, we had very good growth both in the United States
and in our international markets. The total prescriptions for Entresto on the weekly TRx in the US
continue to climb. We had plus 41% growth in the United States, with 9,000 NBRxs per week. Ex-
US continued to perform well and I think, importantly, we see very good performance in heart
failure, as well as hypertension in China and Japan.
Now, when we look at the outlook for Entresto, we've updated the markets that for forecasting
purposes, we assume Entresto LoE in mid-2025. As you likely have seen, our combination patent
is upheld and we currently believe we will be able to secure pediatric exclusivity, though, we'll
continue to monitor the situation closely, and that enables us to guide to a mid-2025 LoE.
Outside of the US, our RDP protection lasts till November 2026 with protection in Japan till 2030
and we continue to pursue additional options for further protection in these markets. I think when
you think about forecasting Entresto for the rest of the decade, it's important to note that the US
sales are about 50% of the global sales. But importantly, Europe contributes 20% and China and
Japan total -- in total, 15% of this brand.
So, moving to Slide 7, Cosentyx topped $6 billion of sales in the full year, growing 25%. This was
fueled by our new launches in HS, as well as the IV launch. When you look at the fourth quarter,
we had US sales up 36%, as mentioned, by the key launches. Outside of the United states, we
had 7% constant currency growth, driven mainly by volume in our core indications. Now, when you
look at how things are unfolding for the brand, we remain number one -- the number one IL-17 in
the US dynamic market, and we remain the leading originator biologic in both the EU and China.
Now, looking ahead, we plan to accelerate growth through the HS launch. With NBRx leadership,
we've already established with 60% NBRx share and continuing to secure reimbursement in our
key markets. Now, IV has started to see accelerated adoption in US. We have about 1,625
accounts ordering. We saw 22% quarter-on-quarter growth. But it's still early days and we're
working through now really accelerating the IV adoption. And over the course of the year, we
expect two phase 3 readouts in giant cell arteritis and polymyalgia rheumatica, which if positive
would provide further engines for growth for Cosentyx through the remainder of the decade.Now, moving to Slide 8, Kesimpta grew 49%, reaching $3.2 billion on the full year. It was outpacing
both the B-cell and the MS market. We're really pleased by the performance in the US and also
very solid performance outside of the United States. Growing 42% in the US, with TRx growth at
29%, we're outpacing the B-cell segment. We see our NBRx share in the high-20s in the B-cell
segment. Outside of the United states, we had 67% constant currency growth, which we're really
pleased with.
Overall, 70% of the new patients in the United States are first-line or first switch. 80% of the US
commercial lives have been -- have now first-line coverage. So, we're in a very good position
from that standpoint. And we're right now, the number one NBRx naive medicine and seven out
of the 10 ex-US markets. So I think the setup overall for Kesimpta looks really good. Very strong
performance US and ex-US, and that gives us confidence in reaching the peak sales guidance
that we've set out for this brand.
Now, moving to Slide 9, Kisqali grew 49% in the full year, reaching $3 billion in sales. And this is a
reflection both of the strong performance we're seeing in the metastatic setting and in the early
breast cancer setting. So, as you can see in the middle panel here, we've outlined the total brand
NBRx across the market, and you can see the significant increase we've seen in total brand NBRx
post the approval in early breast cancer and the positive NCCN guidelines.
The brand grew 65% in the US in quarter four. We have metastatic share at 50% now and TRx
share at 33% and climbing. In the eBC setting -- the early breast cancer setting, we've already
reached 52% NBRx share within three months of launch. And so, we were getting very positive
feedback from physicians and seeing solid uptake both in node-negative and node 1 patients
without risk factors, as well as the overlapping node 1 and node 2 plus patient populations.
I mentioned the Category 1 NCCN guidelines, which is really positive for the brand. And
importantly as well, we announced this morning that we've settled the compound patent litigation
with a generic manufacturer and that supports Kisqali US patent protection until at least Q1 2031.
Outside of the United States, we grew 34% in constant currency with a leading share -- NBRx
share at 42%. And the early breast cancer launch is ongoing now in Europe and other
geographies and that should provide a further driver of growth for Kisqali over the course of the
year -- of this year. So we guided to $8 billion-plus and I think the early signals are clearly
indicating that we're going to be able to get there and, hopefully, do better.
Now, moving to Slide 10, Pluvicto delivered full year sales of $1.4 billion, 42% in constant currencies
in the post-taxane setting. And most importantly, we spent a lot of our energy in quarter four
laying the foundation for the pre-taxane PSMAfore launch, which we expect in the first half.
Now, when you look at the quarter, we grew, as you can see, 28%. Overall, our performance was
absolutely in line with what we guided to in our quarter three conference call. US was up 12%. We
achieved 40% NBRx share within the VISION population. Pluvicto is now available in over 20
countries outside of the United States, and we're confident that we can now accelerate growth
with the PSMAfore launch in 2025. The final OS was read out in -- over the course of January with
an HR -- unadjusted hazard ratio of 0.91. You can see the confidence intervals here. The file has
been submitted to the FDA last year and the review is ongoing. And we -- so far, there is no
AdCom plan for this brand. So I think that's really a positive signal and we'll see now how quickly
we can get to launch.
We have over 590 sites opened for the brand. 350 sites are actively ordering. And every month,
every week, we're adding more sites, we're getting more sites to actively order. We're getting
further into community oncology, which will set us up not only for Pluvicto, but our broader RLTpipeline over time. And we expect the initial uptake for PSMAfore to come primarily from the
depth we'll get in these existing sites and then grow over time, certainly, as we try to reach
deeper into the oncology community practices.
We're also progressing on our efforts to expand Pluvicto further and -- as well as our broader RLT
expansion. The PSMA addition readout is on track for the second half of this year. We have
Pluvicto filings ongoing in China and Japan, and in both of those geographies as well, we've
announced manufacturing facilities to support the launch of Pluvicto and, of course, Lutathera.
And we've also now initiated planning for our Actinium-PSMA-617 phase 3 study, the first of two
actinium studies we're now planning to move into phase 3 on to have continued lifecycle
management in prostate cancer with radioligand therapies.
Now, moving to Slide 11. Leqvio showed a steady trajectory, delivered 114% constant currency full
year growth in the quarter, 83% growth versus prior year. We're really pleased that now in the US,
our growth is outpacing the overall advanced lipid-lowering market. We have over 3,000 health
systems ordering now Leqvio. That represents 68% of the overall market volume. We have depth
that's increasing and I think we're getting better and better traction with the overall buy and build
comfort levels within cardiology practices. We see demand growth in all relevant channels.
Outside of the United States, we've seen robust growth as well. Leqvio is now registered in over
100 countries. We see solid uptake in markets such as Germany and in China. Our out-of-pocket
growth really makes it one of the top-ranked markets we have outside of the United States. We
have an ongoing launch as well now in Japan. So looking ahead, we have a number of clinical-
stage readouts coming over the course of 2025, which will help, I think, round out the profile of
Leqvio as we await the outcomes, trials readouts, and secondary prevention in 2026 and 2027.
Now, moving to Slide 12. Scemblix grew to 68% for the full year with continued momentum in the
third-line setting and early progress that we're already seeing in the frontline setting. We're a
market leader now in the third-line CML setting with NBRx share of 49%. We're 3 times higher
than the nearest competitor, which I think shows how well-established now Scemblix is amongst
hematologists. Outside of the United States, our leadership is at 66% for NBRx and total patient
share in our key markets.
And when you look at the earlier-line launch, what was critical is that we have already received
NCCN Category 1 preferred recommendation in November, and then we also already see now
Scemblix is the fastest growing TKI by NBRx share across all lines of therapy, and we're the
market leader now in second-line NBRx with the share already at 29%. And that's just in the first
few months of launch. So, assuming we can really drive that continued trajectory, we should see
very strong uptake overall for Scemblix in the coming quarters.
So we're confident in the global first-line opportunity. We read out the 96-week data recently as
well, which reinforces superior efficacy, and I'll say more about that in a moment. And then we
also showed some very good data that showed on treatment discontinuation as well that
Scemblix provides a clear profile win over nilotinib.
Now, going to Slide 13, that ASC4FIRST 96-week data reinforces superior efficacy and safety.
When you look at the data set here at 96 weeks on the left-hand side of the chart you can see,
against all TKIs, we continued to show a significant improvement -- a statistically significant
improvement in major molecular response. Similarly, versus imatinib, a significant improvement in
major molecular response. And while we weren't powered, our point estimate difference against
second-gen TKIs continues to improve as well over time.Now, when you look at the safety profile, we maintained a very excellent safety profile that we
had at the earlier time point, whether it was grade 3 AEs, AEs leading to discontinuation or AEs
leading to dose interruption, an excellent profile for the brand. So, overall, we offer here a
medicine that has high efficacy, compelling safety, and we believe, over time, as there's more
and more experience, we'll become the preferred agent in first, second, and third line for CML
patients.
Now, moving to Slide 14. Now, turning to Fabhalta, as you're well -- Fabhalta is now launched in
two indications, in PNH and IgAN. And while it's early days, I think we see really solid, steady
performance for this brand. A 23% volume growth in PNH. Most of the source of business at the
moment is switch patients from the established therapies. We see over 90% of patients staying
on therapy after their -- continuing after their first refill. Very good commercial coverage level.
We're approved now in 40 countries and so, step-by-step as well, we're progressing the launch
in other geographies.
The early signs for the IgAN launch as well are very encouraging. We've seen strong access with
67% commercial coverage already to label. We're seeing a number of nephrologists -- a sizable
number of nephrologists completing REMS certification, and we also see a high interest in our
conversations with opinion leaders on the Fabhalta MOA. One other update we have as well for
Fabhalta is that the C3G filing was completed in quarter four. We received priority review. The
FDA has confirmed no AdCom for C3G, so we're now preparing for a launch in the first half of
2025.
So, moving to Slide 15. So, when you look across the full year, I think we delivered very good
innovation momentum across regulatory decisions, submissions, readouts, and phase 3 starts.
Obviously, the critical approvals were delivered upon, particularly the Kisqali early breast cancer,
Fabhalta approvals, the filings of Pluvicto, and the approval for Scemblix. So I think we really are
looking forward to maintaining and continuing that momentum in the year to come.
One important readout that we did have in quarter four, turning to Slide 16, was for the STEER
study for OAV101 IT. This is the intrathecal version of Zolgensma that is administered intrathecally
at roughly one-tenth the dose of what we see in the IV administration. This was tested in children
and young adults over two years of age. We're really pleased to see that we've met the primary
endpoint for an increase versus baseline for the Hammersmith score, HFMSE, which is the gold
standard. Not all of the therapies in the space have been tested against the Hammersmith score.
So, we chose the gold standard and we demonstrated that we met the primary endpoint of a
statistically significant improvement versus a sham or a placebo, as requested by FDA. A very
favorable safety profile, consistent with what we've seen in other settings.
We're looking forward to present the data at an upcoming medical congress. You can see the
study design over on the right. And our goal here will be to try to secure a broad indication across
the various age levels and looking forward then to advance this with global regulatory
submissions across our -- across the various geographies. A sizable number of patients have not
had the opportunity to benefit from Zolgensma in the first six months of life. And now, we're
really excited now to give those patients a very compelling one-time treatment option that can,
hopefully, stabilize and potentially improve their disease.
Now, moving to Slide 17. We also completed an exciting deal in our neuroscience pipeline. This is
for votoplam, PTC518. It's a potential first-in-class oral disease-modifying therapy for Huntington's
disease. We have a lot of expertise in oral splicing agents. We had a molecule called LMI070,
which ultimately did not progress because of peripheral neuropathy signals that we had duringthe development program. So this is a space we know well and we really believe PTC518 has a
very strong profile, as evidenced in the interim readout of their phase 2 study.
As you know, in Huntington's disease, a very fatal -- fatal neurodegenerative disease with really
no disease-modifying therapies at the moment. Prevalence is 37,000 in the US and 28,000 in the
EU. So we have an opportunity, hopefully, to make a big difference. We would expect the phase 2
readout for the study in the first half of 2025 and then moving to pivotal phase 3 studies
thereafter.
Now, moving to Slide 18. So our goal will be to continue our innovation momentum in 2025. We
outlined at Meet the Management we have a deep and broad pipeline across our four
therapeutic areas across our key platforms. And our goal now is to advance the next wave of
therapies, both in terms of approvals and submissions. You can see the list here, but also
readouts and study initiations, which will really fill up that mid-stage pipeline and then allow us to
maintain our growth momentum well into the 2030s and beyond.
So, moving to Slide 19 and to close, I just wanted to remind you of our confidence in our midterm
guidance, 5%-plus sales growth out to 2029 and a 40% core margin by 2027. We're very
comfortable that we can with, our replacement power, outpace the Gx impacts that we have to
2029. We have an exciting set of in-market growth drivers, many of which have protection well
into the 2030s. We have the pipeline probabilized and are -- hopefully, with positive clinical data
and approvals, that pipeline will become further unprobabilized in medicines like remibrutinib,
OAV, ianalumab, pelacarsen, and atrasentan can further drive the growth profile of the company.
So, an exciting year. We're really excited by our performance in 2024 and excited about
continuing delivering the strong results and strong innovation delivery into 2025.
So, with that, I'll hand it over to Harry.
`Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thank you, Vas. Good morning and good afternoon, everyone. I now talk you through our
financials for the fourth quarter and full year '24, which as Vas mentioned, has shown some of the
strongest performance in our history. As always, my comments refer to continuing operations and
growth rates in constant currencies, unless otherwise noted.
So starting on Slide 21, giving a bit of context. Now, our results in 2024, which is here on the far
right of each of the three charts, was really our first full year as a pure-play innovative medicines
company and we continue to show a strong track record of sales growth with margin expansion. If
you look back over the last five years, we have grown sales at a 7% CAGR and core operating
income at a 15% CAGR through consistent, strong commercial execution and overall significant
progress on operational productivity. This has resulted in core margin expansion of 1,100 basis
points in constant currencies, putting us on a clear path to achieve our midterm margin guidance
of 40%-plus by 2027. I think when you look at this track record, it becomes very clear that we have
lifted the company to a whole new level of sales, margin, and as we will discuss later, free cash
flow.
Moving to Slide 22. We guided to a low-double digit sales growth for full year 2024 and we
achieved 12%, so meeting our guidance. And for core operating income, we delivered 22%
growth exceeding, by one notch our guidance, reflecting strong momentum we have seen in our
priority brands, good also -- and launches, as well as cost discipline throughout the end of the
year, including some productivity gains.On Slide 23, you see a summary of our financial performance. In the quarter, sales were up 16%
and core operating income increased 29%. Core EPS was $1.98, up 33%. To note, in quarter four,
we benefited from some gross-to-net favorability, mainly in the US. This added about 3 percent
points of growth to quarter four from gross-to-net true-ups, based on invoices for prior quarters
in 2024. So the underlying growth in quarter four has been a very strong 13%, slightly better than
the 12% sales growth for the full year 2024. For the full year, core margin expanded 330 basis
points versus prior year in constant currencies to reach 38.7%. Core EPS was $7.81, up 24%. And
free cash flow grew 24% to $16.3 billion, a record high for Novartis.
Now, speaking of free cash flow, let's turn to the next slide. You can see, free cash flow
generation has really accelerated since we completed our transformation into a pure-play
pharma company end of 2023 and also finalized our transformation program -- transformation for
growth program, which we announced April '22. This has been a focus for us to, of course, ensure
that not only core operating income increases, but appropriately also, free cash flow. So, high
quality of core earnings and strong free cash flow generation. And in fact, we have generated
more cash than we did as combined businesses, be it with Sandoz or a few years back, even with
Alcon. This gives us also ample capacity, of course, to reinvest in the business, pursue bolt-on
deals and return attractively to our shareholders, while growing dividends and buybacks.
This brings me to my next slide. So we continue to execute in line with our shareholder-friendly
capital allocation strategy, which balances the priorities I mentioned. We invest over $9 billion in
R&D in 2024 and completed more than 30 bolt-on deals over the last two years to strengthen
our pipeline, particularly in the area of neuroscience, RLT, and renal. With respect to returning
capital to shareholders, we remain committed to consistently growing our dividend in Swiss francs
per share and completing our ongoing share buyback, which has about $5.4 billion still to be
executed in 2025.
Now, on to the next slide, please, to the dividend. So we are really pleased to propose the 28th
consecutive dividend increase to CHF3.50 per share, an increase of 6% in Swiss francs and
CHF0.20 after the prior few years of CHF0.10 per year. As you know, we did not rebase our
dividend for the spin-off of Sandoz, nor Alcon. So this represents really an attractive consistent
growth over time, in line with our commitment to our shareholders.
Moving to Slide 27. For full year 2025, we expect continued strong sales growth with margin
expansion, with sales growing mid-to-high single digit and core operating income growing high-
single to low-double digits. Embedded in our guidance is the financial planning assumption that
the Tasigna, Promacta, and Entresto US generics entry occurs in the middle of 2025. And I give
some more detail on expected half one versus half two dynamics on the next slide. To complete
our full year guidance, please note that we expect core net financial expenses to be around $1
billion and our core tax rate to be around 16% to 16.5%.
On Slide 28, we have shown illustratively how we expect half one and half two dynamics should
generics for Entresto, Tasigna and Promacta enter in the US in the mid of 2025, as per our
financial planning assumption. Overall, we expect continued strong volume growth from priority
brands in 2025. In half one, we expect sales to grow low-double digit, while we expect, of course,
a softer half two due to the impact of the three potential generic entries with low-to-mid single
digit sales growth. Likewise, we expect half one core OpInc to grow in the high-teens with a low-
to-mid single digit growth in half two.
And now, finally, we -- let's have a quick look at the currencies as they always move around. And if
late January rates were to prevail for the remainder of 2025, we would expect the full year
currency impact to be a negative 2% on sales and a negative 3 percentage points on coreoperating income. As a reminder, we always provide an estimated impact of exchange rates on
our results on a monthly basis on our website.
And with that, I hand back to Harry.
`Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Terrific. Thank you, Harry. So, coming to the final slide and, really, just in summary, continued
strong business momentum in quarter four, one of the best financial performances in the
company's history. Met and exceeded our full year guidance. We're advancing our pipeline,
including new approvals, but importantly, readouts for assets that will fuel our mid-to-long term
growth and, really, ensuring we advance the mid-stage pipeline. And then expect to continue
strong sales growth with margin expansion in 2025, as Harry outlined, and we remain on track to
deliver our midterm guidance of 5%-plus sales growth through 2029.
So, with that, Sharon, we can open the line for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We will now take the first question. And your first question
comes from the line of `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Bernstein from Bernstein. Please go ahead.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Bernstein `
Good afternoon. Thank you very much for taking my question. A quick one on the guidance, as
the guidance is a little bit better than expected on the topline, but also on the margin. And as
Entresto is a very profitable product and you will lose patent and you have generics from the mid
of this year, was just wondering if you could elaborate, Harry, what are the -- where we should
see some pressure and where you will have some growth that will offset the generic impact on
the P&L and on the topline. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Florent. Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, thank you, Florent. I mean, in the end, all starts with the topline, as we all know in the
pharma businesses. So having our mid-to-high single digit sales growth, given the strength of our
growth brands and launches, there's a good starting base. And also, our other products are quite
profitable. Now, of course, profitability does vary by the different brands, but overall, with the
mid-to-high single digit sales growth and our ongoing resource allocation and productivity
programs, we are very confident that with that, we will have also some moderate margin
increase.
So, from that standpoint -- and I laid out half one, we will be more, obviously, and if these
generics would enter half two, would be basically pretty much low-to-mid single digit, both on top
and bottom line. That's fine. But overall, very confident in that sales growth with these
assumptions, as well as this -- the underlying volume growth, when you look at it, right, 14% -- 15%
volume and then it depends a bit -- pricing was quite neutral last year, and then it depends simply
on generic assumptions there.But also, with a 5% -- very confident the 5% CAGR on the five years and then, of course, from
38.7% to 40%-plus, it's not that far, right, in 2027. But we have good ongoing productivity and
therefore -- especially on SG&A with good resource allocation, and the launches are mostly in
areas where we have already strong presence, we would expect SG&A to grow below sales
growth, as you have also seen in the prior two years.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Florent. Next question? (multiple speakers)
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn Atlantic from Redburn Atlantic. Please
go ahead.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn Atlantic `
Thank you for taking my question. And it's kind of a continuation from Florent's question. Just
mindful of the loss of exclusivity potentially for Entresto later in the year, historically, you've been
very, very good at managing gross margin through patent expiry. I just wonder -- Harry, I know you
don't guide on gross margin. If you could just give us any commentary around the resilience of
the gross margin in 2025 in light of that event? Thanks so much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Simon. So, as I mentioned on prior calls and IR roadshows and -- the further margin
improvement I expect to basically fully come from SG&A as we, with good resource allocation,
basically slightly grow SG&A, but significantly below sales growth. The gross margin comes a little
bit under pressure as we lose small molecules where we don't pay royalties, with either small
molecules where we pay some royalties or larger molecules. But all of that will be more than
offset by the SG&A efficiencies.
And then, of course, also our colleagues in manufacturing and supply chain continue to work on
very good productivity programs and have cost reduction programs on each of our products in a
very impressive way; of course, never compromising quality or supply. Very high 99.5%-plus
supply -- customer service levels. And with that, a little bit pressure on the gross margin because
of increasing royalties, but by far compensated from SG&A efficiencies.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn Atlantic `
Great. Thanks so much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Simon. Next question?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Matthew Weston, Analyst, UBS from UBS. Please go
ahead. Hello, Matthew, are you on mute? Due to no response, I'll move to the next question. OneYour next question comes from the line of `Richard Parkes, Analyst, BNP Paribas from BNP Paribas. Please go ahead.
Q - `Richard Parkes, Analyst, BNP Paribas `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. I think I'll take one on the Huntington's program. Obviously,
huge unmet medical need, terrible disease. But there have been some other failures in that area
in the past. So I'm just wondering what makes you more confident in the approach, what you've
learned from those past experiences, and to what degree do you think the PIVOT-HD trial will
derisk the probability of success, given it's a slowly progressing disease and the study is relatively
short, or will we still be seeing it as a high-risk program? That would be really helpful. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Richard. And I think as you're aware, the goal here is to take down mutant
Huntington, but at a level where you're not taking it so low that you have some of the -- you have
adverse consequences from reducing Huntington's too much. I mean, generally speaking, the
feeling in the field is you want to reduce mutant Huntington protein by 30% to 50%. And then
alongside that biomarker, you want to see clinical signs of improvement.
So I think at their interim results, PTC has shown the relevant mHTT lowering. They've seen some
signals of clinical efficacy and a very good safety profile without some of the peripheral
neuropathies that we saw in our own program. So I think all of that taken together makes the
program look like it's headed in the right direction. I think the big question, of course, is does
reducing mutant Huntington at that level lead to the large enough or important enough clinical
benefit that would lead to, most importantly, helping patients, but also regulatory approval.
I think we'll see how the phase 2b study reads out. Obviously, if it's a very compelling result, it
might enable us to take it forward for a filing, and if not, we would then need to go to a full
pivotal study and then really answer the question, does reducing mutant Huntington at that level
lead to the clinical benefits that one would hope? So it's been -- I think PTC has developed the
product in all the right ways. They've had good dialogue with the regulators. So we're hopeful
that we see a good result on the phase 2b study and then we'll take over and run those phase 3
studies and, hopefully, we can bring an important first disease-modifying therapy to these
patients who badly need it.
Q - `Richard Parkes, Analyst, BNP Paribas `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Richard. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Emily Field, Analyst, Barclays from Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `Emily Field, Analyst, Barclays `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. The first one is just a clarification question from the first
question that was asked by Florent. If you could just confirm the contribution of favorable gross-
to-net adjustments to sales in Q4 '24?And then I just wanted to ask a question about Pluvicto. I mean, I know the guidance had been not
to expect significant sales growth until the additional indication of PSMAfore was added. But was
there any particular driver between the sequential decline in the US quarter-over-quarter and
would you expect any of the DTC and promotional efforts that you've been putting in place to
have an impact on sales ahead of the PSMAfore approval? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Emily. So, back on the guidance, Harry.
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So I think your question was, how is the gross to net in quarter four impacting the guidance?
If I -- so let me try and then you can tell me if it was sufficient. So we had a growth of 16% in
quarter four, as you have seen, in constant currency. About 3 points of that was due to true-ups
of gross to net for prior quarters of 2024, so underlying 13%. The full year sales by brand in 2024
is basically undistorted. The underlying growth for '24 is 12%, but -- as you see in the report. So if
you want to have a basis, it's best to take the full year 2024 sales, and these are undistorted
overall.
Now, of course, that has lifted the overall 2024 sales and we have, of course, computed that, if
you will, into our 2025 gross-to-net calculations, right? And a key element of this is, really,
Medicaid utilization is continuously reducing to pre-pandemic levels. Now, we do not assume that
it gets lower and lower. We basically assume that in 2025, we see what we have seen as the
latest for 2024, right, which is a reasonable assumption. So we never take risky assumptions on
gross to net. It's obviously a big, big pot of money, right, like $16 billion to $20 billion of sales, as
we have like 50% of our US list prices be gross to net. But from that standpoint, it has lifted this
more favorable close to net situation for 2024 our sales level. And from that, we expect to grow
mid-to-high single digit. I hope that clarifies your question.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And then Emily...
Q - `Emily Field, Analyst, Barclays `
(multiple speakers) Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
On Pluvicto, when you look at it, in Q4, it was really in line with what we had expected in Q3. We
had the benefit of some one-time adjustments in France and Germany. But then when you overall
look at where we had guided for Q4, it's roughly exact -- almost exactly with where we had
expected.
Now, I think looking ahead, we are hopeful to see further progress in the VISION population, but I
think that will be not a rapid increase. I think we've already gotten to 40% NBRx share, and now,
we'll need to get to steady gains by expanding further and further the number of treating sites
for the VISION population. But it is possible certainly that the DTC will start to have an impact that
we kicked off in quarter three of last year. Usually takes six months for DTC to have an impact. So,
it would be around February, March of this year, we might see some impact on the VISION
population. But really, our organization's focus is on the PSMAfore launch.I think now that we have really compelling rPFS data, we have very compelling data on distant
mets, we have now the OS unadjusted for crossover at 0.91. I think everything now is a good
setup to go into a population that's 3 times larger. Really ensure the sites that are already using
Pluvicto now fully maximize their capacity to get as many patients to benefit from the therapy as
possible and also accelerate our efforts to get even more sites ready in the community.
We've launched a number of initiatives. We're launching a few more over the course of the
quarter to really simplify and, hopefully, get clinicians very comfortable even in the community
oncology setting, providing radiopharmaceuticals or radioligand therapy. That's where I think
we're going to see the next uplift for the brand.
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Matthew Weston, Analyst, UBS, UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you. I don't know what happened earlier. It's a question for Harry, and it's again about
guidance, Harry, but particularly about the impact of Medicare Part D reform on what you've
assumed within your growth. So, one of the questions we've had a lot this morning from investors
is, how can you be so confident, given that you have a very large oral oncology portfolio, which is
assumed to be used largely in a Medicare Part D population? So, what have you assumed in your
outlook are the puts and takes around that portfolio from that new reform?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Matthew. I'll actually take that one. Overall, we expect a modest headwind from the
Part D reforms and we fully factored that into our guidance. The two brands where we see the
biggest impact of the reforms primarily paying into the to cover in the catastrophic phase are for
Cosentyx and Kisqali. But overall, when we look at it, we factored in the expected modeled
headwinds from that. We look at the potential volume uplifts, which we don't really put a lot of
stake in yet, because we'd really like to see how that ultimately unfolds over the course of this
year, and we see a modest headwind, which we think we can manage fully, and that's
incorporated into our guidance.
I think we'll see. I think in the midterm, the policy should lead to volume uplifts, more patients
staying on therapy, which is why the industry wanted a $2,000 out-of-pocket cap, and that would
ultimately, of course, improve patient compliance, staying on their medicines, and ultimately
impact -- positively impact our sales in the coming years. In this first year, I think it's hard to put
much credence on that. But beyond that, we feel very comfortable with the modeling that we've
did. We think we've taken appropriately conservative assumptions.
Q - `Matthew Weston, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator? Thanks, Matthew.
OperatorThank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Vosser, Analyst, J.P. Morgan from J.P. Morgan. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Richard Vosser, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. Question on Kisqali. Looking at the NBRx share in metastatic, it
stayed at sort of 50% for a number of quarters and maybe a couple of years now. So I'm just
wondering what it takes to change that. You have a superior product. Does the sort of halo effect
from adjuvant allow you to get more accounts onboard? Just can we see that displacement of
Ibrance? Just your thoughts. Thanks very much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Richard. I think the Kisqali shares really started to gain in the first part of last year
after we had the early breast cancer readout. And it led to a lot more confidence overall in the
brand, as well as the NCCN guidelines further supporting the use of Kisqali. I think now we are
hopeful that with the early breast cancer readout and then the opportunity to have a single
medicine for all patients within a clinic that we can drive the overall share -- NBRx share higher
than 52%.
We do have a cap probably somewhere around 75%, 80% just because of some of the payer
dynamics and some of the contraindications for Kisqali. But of course, our goal is to get from that
52% as high as we can to that 75% over the coming years. Of course, we have plenty of time now
to do that, and I think we should see steady gains over time on that one. But the biggest focus
for us right now is maximizing the opportunity in the node 0 and node 1 patients without risk
factors, where Kisqali is uniquely labeled and our competitors are not. And our ability to get those
patients diagnosed and then, ultimately, on therapy, it's such a sizable population and the size of
the -- obviously, the public health benefit we can deliver, that's the core focus for us overall. And
then with that, of course, we should see metastatic gains as well.
Q - `Richard Vosser, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Cool. Thanks.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America, Bank of America. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Graham Parry, Analyst, Bank of America `
Great. Thanks for taking my question. It's just on Entresto, just wanting to get perhaps a little bit
more detail on the dynamics that are factored into the guidance for 2025. So, what sales
progression are you looking at worldwide and in the US? And in the US, do you see a benefit in
the first half of the year from donut hole discount removal? And to what extent does that offset
some of the generic decline you should get in the second half of the year?
And on generics, how confident you can hold off Entresto generics until 16th of July? The court
filing seems to suggest that MSN is trying every which way to launch at the moment and there's
only one appeal court stay in place blocking them from doing that. And are you confident theyhaven't shipped any products at all in that narrow window, where there wasn't actually a stay in
place a couple of weeks ago? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Graham. On the overall dynamics, Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Overall, we would expect continued good growth of Entresto until, from a forecast
assumption standpoint, middle of the year. Of course, our colleagues in the legal and IP
department will do everything to appropriately defend further patents. But that's for now the
financial forecast assumption. And so, we would see growth on that. And yes, you are right,
there's some favorability from the Medicare Part D design on Entresto, as it is not a very high-
priced specialty product.
So, very positive dynamics expected until LoE would happen in the US. And then, of course, what
-- actually, when we look at the multi-year outlook and forecast, Entresto is one of the products
that's really under-forecasted versus our model from the consensus due to the fact that Europe
at least end of '26, Japan 2030, and then we have a large tail-end product -- almost [ph] a large -
- even small molecules in emerging markets. So also there quite a lot of, let's say, remainder of
sales because of Japan should be a blockbuster and then emerging markets once even end of
'26, Europe would see generic entries.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Harry. And of course, we're pursuing all options in Europe and Japan to ensure we
maximize the exclusivity for Entresto in those geographies. And there's certainly options that
might materialize.
Now, I think on the US dynamic, to our knowledge and our best understanding, there were no
products shipped into the channel in those few hours. The stay is in place. MSN has requested a
reconsideration of the circuit court's stay. And of course, we'll monitor that situation. But we
believe it's very clear that the spirit of the law very much is that we did our pediatric exclusivity
studies and those pediatric -- that pediatric six-month extension on the combination patent, which
has been upheld, should be respected. And so, that's our very clear position. We of course
continue to litigate out the amorphous complex patent, as well as the lawsuit that we have that
the FDA should not have approved products with a carve-out on the dosing regimen on the label.
So, those court cases also continue to go on over the course of these months, and we'll see how
it unfolds. Our best estimate at the moment is to give you that forecasting guidance of middle of
the year. And if anything changes, either we or I think, IPD, will let you know -- probably IPD sooner
than us, but we do the best we can.
So, thank you very much, Graham. Next question?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Etzer Darout, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets from BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Etzer Darout, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets `Great. Thanks for taking the question. Had a couple of inbound this morning. Just wondering if
you had any maybe additional commentary you could provide on the pushout of the HORIZON
phase 3 and maybe what could be driving that -- the event sort of rate dynamic relative to your
initial event rate assumptions? Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Etzer. So, this is an event-driven study. We've been modeling the event rates. I think
I've also heard a few questions. There's been no interim analysis. So, not -- no interim analysis
drove this. This is just event rate modeling on the blinded event rates that we saw. And we
expect now to reach the final number of events, which is, I think, always preferable for a
cardiovascular study that we need to ensure is adequately powered in the first part of next year.
We don't have a good unnecessarily [ph] guess. I mean, in general, I would say, cardiovascular
outcome studies have been trending to lower event rates under time -- over time. It's important
to note that in these studies, we very rigorously ensure that all patients are at their appropriate
treatment levels for LDL-lowering to ensure that we can isolate the impact, as FDA asks us, of the
Lp(a)-lowering therapy. So quite -- it could be the background rate. It could be the drug is working.
That's always our hope. But we can't be sure of that as well.
So, we'll see over the course of -- we'll see next year, at the end, how the study reads out. But
we remain very confident that the drug is doing what it's supposed to do. Mechanism of action is
clear. When we look at the profile of the patients that we enrolled, this is the high-risk patient
population we wanted to enroll, high levels of Lp(a), then with the lowering that we are seeing --
that we expect to see that that should lead to the cardiovascular risk reduction that we hope for.
That's the best guidance I can give you at this point in time.
Q - `Etzer Darout, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets `
Great. Thank you. I appreciate the color.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `James Quigley, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Q - `James Quigley, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Great. Thank you for taking the question. Going on [ph] the guidance, unfortunately. Harry, would
you be able to sort of split the guidance out between volumes, generic impact, and pricing?
Presumably, pricing is close to zero or slightly negative. But it would be super helpful if you could
give us an idea of how that breaks down.
And then secondly, on the slide where you break out the half one versus half two, obviously, the
second half takes a hit because of generics. Where would that land if you didn't have a generic
impact and is low-to-mid single digits a sort of sensible exit rate for the second half as your
guidance out to the end of 2029? Appreciate that you don't guide on the individual years, but just
some color would be useful.A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, James. Harry?
A - `Harry Kirsch, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Okay, so let's give it a try. So, overall, we expect continued, if not slightly increased, volume
growth due to our launches and continued very good execution from a volume standpoint, right?
Pricing probably will be a little bit more pressure. Usually, we have, on a year, like 1 percent point
to 2 percent points negative. Last year, in '24, we had flat. But there's a little bit of gross-to-net
pressure, was due to Medicare Part D redesign, but nothing dramatic there. And the key impact
will be an increased generic according to these forecast assumptions.
Now, for the US, we have taken simply analogs for small molecules in the different categories,
cardiovascular as well as onco, and that's what you can model yourself. Now, if these three would
not happen, I would expect the first half to look like the second half. Unfortunately, there is not an
unreasonable assumption it will happen, right? So that's why we carefully have modeled this.
Q - `James Quigley, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, James. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities from Guggenheim
Securities. Please go ahead.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities `
Great. Thanks for the question. So, my question is on ianalumab. You guys have Sjogren's data
coming this year, to my understanding, as well as some additional phase 2 and 3 data sets.
Where are you most excited about the opportunity for ianalumab? It would strike me that
Sjogren's is the highest unmet medical need, where even just a positive study would gain
substantial utilization. Just trying to get a better understanding of how you're thinking about the
market opportunity in Sjogren's and then more broadly for ianalumab. Thanks so much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Seamus. We are very excited about ianalumab's potential, both in hematology and
in immunology. So, in immunology, clearly, the Sjogren's will be the first key foundational readout.
We're studying this in the roughly 40% of patients who have systemic manifestations of Sjogren's
disease. In the phase 2b study, we demonstrated for the first time significant improvements in
the SSDDI [ph], which is focused on the systemic manifestations, including improvements in areas
such as fatigue and other physician-assessed parameters.
And so, if we can get a positive readout, we'll try to get as broad a label as we can. And we're
also assessing should we also study the medicine over time in those patients, the remaining 60%
of patients, a subset of them, who primarily have symptom manifestations without the systemic
manifestation. So I think there's a significant opportunity in HS.Then of course, following up on that, we have the systemic lupus and lupus nephritis studies as
well running, and as well, as you note, the phase 2b in hidradenitis. Alongside that, I think while
there is reasonable standards of care in idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura, ITP. This has -- this
medicine also has the potential with its mechanism to be an improvement in second-line and first-
line ITP. And that, we also have a readout in 2025 as well. And so, that would, obviously, enable us
to start the process in hematology. We have worked through ensuring we have different dose
levels as well, so we can manage the different indications in immunology and hematology from a
price standpoint.
So, taken together, I mean, you have six phase 3 studies across the board already running for
ianalumab, multiple phase 2s. So, assuming they go our way, this could be a very significant
medicine, probably underappreciated overall.
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Naresh Chouhan, Analyst, Intron Health from Intron Health. Please
go ahead.
Q - `Naresh Chouhan, Analyst, Intron Health `
Hi, there. Thanks for taking my question. Just one on OAV, please. So consensus is currently
modeling very little, if anything at all, for OAV101. Can you help us think through the bolus
opportunity and the speed of ramp-up? We think it could be a blockbuster by 2027. Is that
unreasonable? How do you think about the speed of ramp-up? Thanks.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I think -- so, Naresh, I think it's obviously early days from our standpoint. But certainly with -- I
can use the analog of what we saw with Zolgensma. And certainly, in that case, we did see a very
fast ramp and then to the steady state. And then we stayed at that steady state. I think it was two
years, three years until we got to the steady state. And that's generally what we would expect, I
think, in the case of gene therapies. And so, we'll -- I think we'll see with OAV the dynamics,
obviously, a little bit different, because many of these patients will need to be switch patients.
But I think when you look at the competitive set that we're going up against, you have a
competitor that requires quarterly intrathecal administrations into the spinal cord, which is quite
challenging for patients over time. And also, patients often have malformations and deformities
that happen in the spine as a result of the repeated injections. And then the other competitor
medicine was not tested with the standard of care Hammersmith score, which is the gold
standard, which is what we used.
And I think -- our hope is by going to the physician and patient population, saying, look, you have
a one-time gene therapy using the gold standard Hammersmith score, demonstrating statistical
significant improvement using that score with a very expected safety profile. That could be very
compelling for a large number of patients. That's the approach we're going to take in rolling the
medicine out. And I'm hopeful that it will surprise people as well, because I think there is the
opportunity. As we guided, this could be overall a $3 billion-plus medicine over time. And that's
very much the goal. And I think also, of course, with gene therapies, we have the opportunity to
have medicines that are -- don't -- at least our current understanding, be difficult to face real
generic erosion. So these become medicines that kind of stay in the long run in our portfolio.So, thanks, Naresh. Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Eric Le Berrigaud, Analyst, Stifel from Stifel. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Eric Le Berrigaud, Analyst, Stifel `
Yes. Hello, do you hear me?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Go ahead, Eric.
Q - `Eric Le Berrigaud, Analyst, Stifel `
Yes, hi. Again on guidance, but this time on the midterm guidance and trying to put the '25
guidance in the context of midterm guidance. Since you implemented this midterm guidance, you
systematically beat and raise. '23 was much higher, '24 was much higher. And then we thought
that maybe the transition with the significant LoEs in '25, '26 would be the reason for the midterm
guidance to be lower than what you achieved. But now in '25, you're guiding for mid-to-high
single digit, which is again higher than the midterm guidance. And so, if we think that '26 will very
much look like '25 because it's a 50-50, mid '25, mid '26 impact, and then '27, '28 should see
some rebound with no significant LoE, it becomes hard to understand why the midterm guidance
is not more, let's say, higher -- or let's say, to articulate things. So maybe something is missing.
But could you put that in some context or it's just the global policy of underpromise and
overdeliver. Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
No, certainly not a global policy. We do our best to give you the midpoint estimate of where we
think things will go. And then, of course, if we do better -- and over the last two years, I think our
performance -- operating performance has been outstanding, actually two-plus-years now. And I
think that's part of the reason you've seen the consistent beats and raises. I think, certainly, over
the coming years, we'll see. I mean, we'll -- of course, we'll update over time. I mean, the 2026,
we have the full year impact, of course, of these generic entries and then we'll clear them and
then accelerate growth from there.
So I don't think we're in a position at this moment to change our midterm guidance. But obviously,
if we consistently perform at a higher level than the 5% midterm guidance, we'd have to
reconsider. But I think right now, our focus is delivering 2025 per plan, getting these launches up
on the trajectory, closing the current gap that consensus has to our view, which I think is roughly 2
points '24 to '29. So I think, Eric, you're there, but some of your colleagues are not. And so, I think
that getting that gap closed by showing confidence in Kisqali, in Leqvio, in Pluvicto, in Scemblix, in
Fabhalta, with the remibrutinib launch, with some of the pipeline delivery, continuing delivering on
Cosentyx, and then, of course, we'll reconsider the midterm outlook as appropriate.
Next question, operator?
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Parkes, Analyst, BNP Paribas from
BNP Paribas. Please go ahead.Q - `Richard Parkes, Analyst, BNP Paribas `
Hi, thanks for taking my follow-up. It's just on Cosentyx, the competitive environment. We've now
had Bimzelx on the market for a year or so. I believe they've had some recent formulary wins and,
obviously, launching in the HS indication. So just wondering how that competitive environment is
playing out and what you anticipate in your guidance. And maybe if you could quantify the
opportunity for Cosentyx in the new indications that you outlined, GCA and PMR?
And then finally, I'd like to thank you for the Lp(a) test at your Meet Management Day, because,
given it was -- mine was borderline, I've now started on a statin. So, I appreciate the opportunity.
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
That's great to hear, Richard. I'm glad we could help. On Cosentyx, we had 25% growth this year.
So I think that shows the robust growth profile of the brand. In terms of the competitor entries,
when you look at our formulary position, it's as we expect. We've had to give the appropriate
level of adjustments on our rebates, but we've maintained very good formulary position. We see
very good performance in Asian markets, such as China, as well as continued good performance
in Europe.
In HS, specifically, we think our profile of having very good flare resolution, where we showed very
compelling data on flare, on pain, I think on itch, so on some of these, I think this really gives us a
very compelling data set. And given the long history of safety with Cosentyx, we think a very
competitive profile to, hopefully, maintain that 60%-plus NBRx share that we have. We believe in
HS, Cosentyx could be over $1 billion medicine globally.
Now, for GCA and PMR, our current estimates are $500 million-plus for each one of these. I think
the question, of course, we'll have to see. I think, originally, for HS, we thought this would be
$500 million to $750 million and we delivered that almost in the first year. So I think we're learning
as we go, as we get into these new indications. And as we have a better sense from launching --
of course, positive data and then launching, we can, of course, update over time.
Q - `Richard Parkes, Analyst, BNP Paribas `
Thank you.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And then I think -- are there more questions, operator?
Operator
We have one more, sir. And your next question comes from `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Bernstein from Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Bernstein `
Good afternoon again. Thank you for taking my follow-up question. This time not on guidance,
but on the pipeline for US. As pelacarsen is now expected in 2026 and it was supposed to be the
big phase 3 readout, now, on the list of the products that will read out this year, notably the
phase 3, please could you share with us which is or which are the most meaningful one, please?
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `Yeah, absolutely, Florent. So I think there's a couple of things I'd say. First, ianalumab is a key
readout and I think we've already highlighted that, I mean, with both Sjogren's and second-line
ITP. Both of these will be, I think, really important for the profile and opportunity in ianalumab and
also, hopefully, give a read-through of what we might be able to do in lupus -- in lupus nephritis,
in frontline ITP, amongst others. In addition, we're going to have the readout of Pluvicto in
hormone-sensitive prostate cancer, which will further create a patient population that's as large
as the VISION -- sorry, as the PSMAfore population. And I think that would be another leg to build
Pluvicto out to that guidance that we've given of $6 billion-plus over time.
In addition, you're going to have, I think, importantly, the remibrutinib food allergy phase 2b
readout, which will then enable us to move rapidly for the next third indication, we hope, for
remibrutinib on top of CSU and CINDU. I would say, for remibrutinib, we expect to file soon. And
then we do currently intend to use a priority review voucher. And we do believe that remibrutinib
in CSU is going to be bigger than the markets expect and I think the opportunity here in the US
and around the world to have an oral medicine that can address such a symptomatic disease
within two weeks of therapy is something we're quite excited about. So we're very much focused
on that launch as well.
And,then of course, on Slide 33, you see a long list of other things. But I think those would be the
big ones that I would highlight that would really move the needle for this year.
Q - `Florent Cespedes, Analyst, Bernstein `
Thank you very much.
A - `Vasant Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer `
And I think that's it. So, thank you all very much for joining. Look forward to seeing you in various
settings over the course of the coming quarter and then again at the Q1 earnings call. Have a
great day.
Operator
Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now
disconnect.