Management’s Discussion and Analysis reflects the results of continuing operations, unless otherwise noted. 35 Table of Contents Executive Overview Our Business We are a leading global technology and mobility company serving the automotive sector. We design and manufacture vehicle components and provide electrical, electronic and active safety technology solutions to the global automotive markets, creating the software and hardware foundation for vehicle features and functionality. We enable and deliver end-to-end smart mobility solutions, active safety and autonomous driving technologies and provide enhanced user experience and connected services. Our Advanced Safety and User Experience segment is focused on providing the necessary software and advanced computing platforms, and our Signal and Power Solutions segment is focused on providing the requisite networking architecture required to support the integrated systems in today's complex vehicles. Together, our businesses develop the ‘brain’ and the ‘nervous system’ of increasingly complex vehicles, providing integration of the vehicle into its operating environment. We are one of the largest vehicle component manufacturers, and our customers include all 25 of the largest automotive original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) in the world. Business Strategy We believe the Company is well-positioned for growth from increasing global vehicle production volumes, increased demand for our Safe, Green and Connected products which are being added to vehicle content, and new business wins with existing and new customers. We are focused on accelerating the commercialization of active safety, autonomous driving, enhanced user experiences and connected services, providing the software, advanced computing platforms and networking architecture required to do so. We have successfully created a competitive cost structure while investing in research and development to grow our product offerings, which are aligned with the high-growth industry mega-trends, and re-aligned our manufacturing footprint into an efficient, low-cost regional service model, allowing us to increase our profit margins. Our achievements in 2017 included the following: • Continuing to strategically position the Company's product portfolio in high-growth spaces to meet consumer preferences for products and advanced technologies that address the industry mega-trends of Safe, Green and Connected by completing the spin-off of our Powertrain Systems segment in order to focus on developing and commercializing new mobility and connectivity solutions. In recognition of the evolution of our business along with the rapidly changing nature of today's vehicles, we became Aptiv PLC in order to reflect our knowledge, adaptiveness and drive to provide advanced solutions for our customers; • Further enhancing our leading automated driving capabilities and accelerating the commercialization of these technologies by acquiring leading software developer nuTonomy, Inc., and through investments in Innoviz Technologies and LeddarTech, Inc., two leading developers of Light Detection and Ranging (“LIDAR”) technology; • Entering into agreements to develop fully-autonomous vehicles and associated infrastructure for mobility providers and smart cities, including the city of Boston; • Generating gross business bookings of $19.3 billion, based upon expected volumes and pricing; • Generating $1.1 billion of cash from continuing operations and net income of $1.4 billion ; and • Maximizing our operational flexibility and profitability at all points in the normal automotive business cycle, by having approximately 97% of our hourly workforce based in best cost countries and approximately 14% of our hourly workforce composed of temporary employees. Our strategy is to build on these accomplishments and continue to develop and manufacture innovative market-relevant products for a diverse base of customers around the globe and leverage our lean and flexible cost structure to achieve strong and disciplined earnings growth and returns on invested capital. Through our culture of innovation and world class engineering capabilities we intend to employ our rigorous, forward-looking product development process to deliver new technologies that provide solutions to our customers. We are committed to creating value for our shareholders. We repurchased $383 million of ordinary shares in 2017 . We also continued to return cash to our shareholders, paying cash dividends totaling $310 million in 2017 . Our key strategic priorities include: Commercializing the high-tech evolution of the automotive industry . The automotive industry is increasingly evolving towards the implementation of software-dependent components and solutions. In particular, the industry is focused on the development of advanced driver assistance technologies, with the goal of developing and introducing a commercially-viable, fully automated driving experience. We expect automated driving technologies will provide strong societal benefit as well as the opportunity for long term growth for our product offerings in this space. We are continuing to invest in the automated driving space, and have continued to develop market-leading automated driving platform solutions such as automated driving software, key active safety sensing technologies and our Multi-Domain Controller, which fuses information from sensing systems as well as mapping and navigation data to make driving decisions. 36 Table of Contents We believe we are well-aligned with industry technology trends that will result in sustainable future growth in this space, and have partnered with leaders in their respective fields to advance the pace of development and commercialization of these emerging technologies. We have entered into a collaborative arrangement with Mobileye N.V. to develop the Centralized Sensing Localization and Planning ("CSLP") system, a complete turn-key fully autonomous driving platform for our OEM customers and mobility partners, with the goal of being production ready in 2019. We also entered into a collaborative arrangement with Intel Corporation and the BMW Group to develop and deploy automated driving technology. Additionally, in 2017 we acquired nuTonomy, Inc. in order to further accelerate the commercialization of automated driving solutions. The acquisition of nuTonomy is the latest in a series of investments we have made to expand our position in the new mobility space, including the prior period acquisitions of automated driving software developer Ottomatika and data service companies Control-Tec and Movimento. There has also been increasing societal demand for mobility on demand ("MoD") services, such as car- and ride-sharing, and an increasing number of traditional automotive companies have made investments in the MoD space. We believe the increasing societal demand for MoD services will accelerate the development of autonomous driving technologies, strongly benefiting the MoD space. We have entered into agreements with the Singapore Land Transport Authority and with the city of Boston to develop fully-autonomous vehicles and associated infrastructure as part of automated MoD pilots. As a result of our substantial investments and strategic partnerships, we believe we are well-aligned with industry technology trends that will result in sustainable future growth in these evolving areas. We are focused on enabling and delivering end-to-end smart mobility solutions, accelerating the commercialization of active safety and autonomous driving technologies and providing enhanced user experience and connected services. Our Advanced Safety and User Experience segment is focused on providing the necessary software and advanced computing platforms, and our Signal and Power Solutions segment is focused on providing the requisite networking architecture required to support the integrated systems in today's complex vehicles. Together, our businesses develop the ‘brain’ and the ‘nervous system’ of increasingly complex vehicles, providing integration of the vehicle into its operating environment. However, there are many risks associated with these evolving areas, including the high development costs of active safety and autonomous driving technologies, the uncertain timing of customer and consumer adoption of these technologies, increased competition from entrants outside the traditional automotive industry and new and emerging regulations, such as the recently released federal guidance for automated driving systems published by the U.S. Department of Transportation. While we believe we are well-positioned in these markets, the high development cost of active safety and autonomous driving technologies may result in a higher risk of exposure to the success of new or disruptive technologies different than those being developed by us. Leveraging our engineering and technological capabilities . We seek to leverage our strong product portfolio tied to the industry’s key mega-trends with our global footprint to increase our revenues, as well as committing to substantial annual investment in research and development to maintain and enhance our leadership in new mobility solutions across each of our product lines. Targeting the right business with the right customers . We intend to be strategic in our pursuit of new business and customers in order to achieve disciplined, above-market growth. We conduct in-depth analysis of market share and product trends by region in order to prioritize research, development and engineering spend for the customers that we believe will be successful. Collaboration with customers in our 14 major technical centers around the world helps us develop innovative product solutions designed to meet their needs. As more OEMs design vehicles for global platforms, where the same vehicle architecture is shared among different regions, we are well suited to provide global design and engineering support while manufacturing these products for a specific regional market. Capitalizing on our scale, global footprint and established position in emerging markets . We intend to generate sustained growth by capitalizing on the breadth and scale of our operating capabilities. Our global footprint provides us important proximity to our customers’ manufacturing facilities and allows us to serve them in every region in which they operate. We anticipate that we will continue to build upon our extensive geographic reach to capitalize on growing automotive markets, particularly in China. In addition, our presence in best cost countries positions us to realize incremental margin improvements as the global balance of automotive production shifts towards emerging markets. Leveraging our lean and flexible cost structure to deliver profitability and cash flow . We recognize the importance of maintaining a lean and flexible cost structure in order to deliver stable earnings and cash flow in a cyclical industry. Our focus is on maximizing and optimizing manufacturing output to meet increasing production requirements with minimal additions to our fixed-cost base. Additionally, we are continuing to use a meaningful amount of temporary workers to ensure we have the appropriate operational flexibility to scale our operations so that we can maintain our profitability as industry production levels increase or contract. Advancing and maintaining an efficient capital structure. We actively manage our capital structure in order to maintain an investment grade credit rating and healthy capital ratios to support our business and maximize shareholder value. We will 37 Table of Contents continue to make adjustments to our capital structure in light of changes in economic conditions or as opportunities arise to provide us with additional financial flexibility to invest in our business and execute our strategic objectives going forward. Pursuing selected acquisitions and strategic investments . During 2017 we continued to complete selected acquisitions and strategic investments in order to continue to enhance our product offerings and competitive position in growing market segments, particularly within the new mobility space. We intend to continue to pursue selected transactions that leverage our technology capabilities and enhance and expand our commercialization of new mobility solutions, product offerings, customer base, geographic penetration and scale to complement our current businesses. Trends, Uncertainties and Opportunities Economic conditions . Our business is directly related to automotive sales and automotive vehicle production by our customers. Automotive sales depend on a number of factors, including global and regional economic conditions. Although global automotive vehicle production increased 3% from 2016 to 2017 , the levels of vehicle production were uneven from a regional perspective. Compared to 2016, vehicle production in 2017 increased by 4% in Europe, 3% in China and 21% in South America. However, after several years of increases, consumer demand for vehicles in North America receded, resulting in a 4% decrease in North American production in 2017 as compared to the increased volumes experienced in 2016. Economic volatility or weakness in North America, Europe, China or South America, could result in a significant reduction in automotive sales and production by our customers, which would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. There is also potential that geopolitical factors could adversely impact the U.S. and other economies, and specifically the automotive sector. In particular, changes to international trade agreements such as the North American Free Trade Agreement or other political pressures could affect the operations of our OEM customers, resulting in reduced automotive production in certain regions or shifts in the mix of production to higher cost regions. Increases in interest rates could also negatively impact automotive production as a result of increased consumer borrowing costs or reduced credit availability. Additionally, economic weakness may result in shifts in the mix of future automotive sales (from vehicles with more content such as luxury vehicles, trucks and sport utility vehicles toward smaller passenger cars). While our diversified customer and geographic revenue base, along with our flexible cost structure, have well positioned us to withstand the impact of industry downturns and benefit from industry upturns, shifts in the mix of global automotive production to higher cost regions or to vehicles with less content could adversely impact our profitability. There have also been periods of increased market volatility and currency exchange rate fluctuations, both globally and most specifically within the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) and Europe, as a result of the U.K. referendum held on June 23, 2016 in which voters approved an exit from the European Union (“E.U.”), commonly referred to as “Brexit.” As a result of the referendum, the British government formally initiated the process for withdrawal in March 2017. The terms of any withdrawal are subject to a negotiation period that could last at least two years from the initiation date. Nevertheless, the proposed withdrawal has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the U.K. and the E.U. These developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, may adversely affect European and worldwide economic and market conditions, significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets and could contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets, including increased volatility in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. Although we are actively monitoring the ongoing potential impacts of Brexit and will seek to minimize its impact on our business, any of these effects of Brexit, among others, could adversely affect our business, business opportunities, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Approximately 1% of our annual net sales are generated in the U.K., and less than 1% are denominated in British pounds. Key growth markets . There have been periods of increased market volatility and moderations in the level of economic growth in China, which resulted in periods of lower automotive production growth rates in China than those previously experienced. Despite these recent moderations in the level of economic growth in China, rising income levels in China and other key growth markets are expected to result in stronger growth rates in these markets over the long term. Our strong global presence, and presence in these markets, has positioned us to experience above-market growth rates over the long term. We continue to expand our established presence in key growth markets, positioning us to benefit from the expected long term growth opportunities in these regions. We are capitalizing on our long-standing relationships with the global OEMs and further enhancing our positions with the key growth market OEMs to continue expanding our worldwide leadership. We continue to build upon our extensive geographic reach to capitalize on fast-growing automotive markets. We believe that our presence in best cost countries positions us to realize incremental margin improvements as the global balance of automotive production shifts towards the key growth markets. We have a strong local presence in China, including a major manufacturing base and well-established customer relationships. Each of our business segments have operations and sales in China. Our business in China remains sensitive to economic and market conditions that impact automotive sales volumes in China, and may be affected if the pace of growth slows as the Chinese market matures or if there are reductions in vehicle demand in China. However, we continue to believe there is long term growth potential in this market based on increasing long term automotive and vehicle content demand. 38 Table of Contents Market driven products . Our product offerings satisfy the OEMs’ needs to meet increasingly stringent government regulations and meet consumer preferences for products that address the mega-trends of Safe, Green and Connected, leading to increased content per vehicle, greater profitability and higher margins. With these offerings, we believe we are well-positioned to benefit from the growing demand for vehicle content and technology related to safety, electrification, high speed data, connectivity to the global information network and automated driving technologies. We are benefiting from the substantial increase in vehicle content, software and electrification that requires a complex and reliable electrical architecture and systems to operate, such as automated advanced driver assistance technologies, electrical vehicle monitoring, active safety systems, lane departure warning systems, integrated vehicle cockpit displays, navigation systems and technologies that enable connected infotainment in vehicles. Our ability to design a reliable electrical architecture that optimizes power distribution and/or consumption is key to satisfying the OEMs’ needs to reduce emissions while continuing to meet consumer demand for increased vehicle content and technology. We have developed a 48-volt mild hybrid vehicle electrical architecture solution, which maximizes the use of 48-volt electrification to minimize the demand on the engine, improving performance while lowering CO 2 emissions by more than 10%. Global capabilities . Many OEMs are continuing to adopt global vehicle platforms to increase standardization, reduce per unit cost and increase capital efficiency and profitability. As a result, OEMs are selecting suppliers that have the capability to manufacture products on a worldwide basis, as well as the flexibility to adapt to regional variations. Suppliers with global scale and strong design, engineering and manufacturing capabilities, are best positioned to benefit from this trend. Our global footprint enables us to serve the global OEMs on a worldwide basis as we gain market share with the emerging market OEMs. This regional model principally services the North American market out of Mexico, the South American market out of Brazil, the European market out of Eastern Europe and North Africa and the Asia Pacific market out of China, and we have continued to rotate our manufacturing footprint to best cost locations within these regions. Our global operations are subject to certain risks inherent in doing business abroad, including unexpected changes in laws, regulations, trade or monetary or tax fiscal policy, including tariffs, quotas, customs and other import or export restrictions and other trade barriers. Existing free trade laws and regulations, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, provide certain beneficial duties and tariffs for qualifying imports and exports, subject to compliance with the applicable classification and other requirements. Changes in laws or policies governing the terms of foreign trade, and in particular increased trade restrictions, tariffs or taxes on imports from countries where we manufacture products, such as China and Mexico, could have a material adverse affect on our business and financial results. Product development . The automotive component supply industry is highly competitive, both domestically and internationally, and is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changes in customer needs. Our ability to anticipate changes in technology and regulatory standards and to successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced products on a timely and cost competitive basis will be a significant factor in our ability to remain competitive. To compete effectively in the automotive supply industry, we must be able to develop and launch new products to meet our customers’ demands in a timely manner. Our innovative technologies and robust global engineering and development capabilities have well positioned us to meet the increasingly stringent vehicle manufacturer demands and consumer preferences for high-technology content in automobiles. OEMs are increasingly looking to their suppliers to simplify vehicle design and assembly processes to reduce costs and weight. As a result, suppliers that sell vehicle components directly to manufacturers (Tier I suppliers) have assumed many of the design, engineering, research and development and assembly functions traditionally performed by vehicle manufacturers. Suppliers that can provide fully-engineered solutions, systems and pre-assembled combinations of component parts are positioned to leverage the trend toward system sourcing. Engineering, design & development . Our history and culture of innovation have enabled us to develop significant intellectual property and design and development expertise to provide advanced technology solutions that meet the demands of our customers. We have a team of approximately 16,000 scientists, engineers and technicians focused on developing leading product solutions for our key markets, located at 14 major technical centers in China, Germany, India, Mexico, Poland, Singapore and the United States. We invest approximately $1,086 million (which includes approximately $204 million co-investment by customers and government agencies) annually in research and development, including engineering, to maintain our portfolio of innovative products, and owned/held approximately 6,300 patents and protective rights as of December 31, 2017 . We also encourage “open innovation” and collaborate extensively with peers in the industry, government agencies and academic institutions. For example, we have entered into a collaborative arrangement with Mobileye to jointly develop a complete turn-key fully autonomous driving platform for our OEM customers, with the goal of being production ready for 2019. Our technology competencies are recognized by both customers and government agencies, who have co-invested approximately $204 million annually in new product development, accelerating the pace of innovation and reducing the risk associated with successful commercialization of technological breakthroughs. In the past, suppliers often incurred the initial cost of engineering, designing and developing automotive component parts, and recovered their investments over time by including a cost recovery component in the price of each part based on expected 39 Table of Contents volumes. Recently, we and many other suppliers have negotiated for cost recovery payments independent of volumes. This trend reduces our economic risk. Pricing . Cost-cutting initiatives adopted by our customers result in increased downward pressure on pricing. Our customer supply agreements generally require step-downs in component pricing over the periods of production and OEMs have historically possessed significant leverage over their outside suppliers because the automotive component supply industry is fragmented and serves a limited number of automotive OEMs. Our profitability depends in part on our ability to generate sufficient production cost savings in the future to offset price reductions. We are focused on maintaining a low fixed cost structure that provides us flexibility to remain profitable at all points of the traditional vehicle industry production cycle. As a result, approximately 97% of our hourly workforce is located in best cost countries. Furthermore, we have substantial operational flexibility by leveraging a large workforce of temporary workers, which represented approximately 14% of the hourly workforce as of December 31, 2017 . However, we will continue to adjust our cost structure and optimize our manufacturing footprint in response to changes in the global and regional automotive markets and in order to increase investment in advanced technologies and engineering, as evidenced by our on-going restructuring programs focused on the continued rotation of our manufacturing footprint to best cost locations in Europe and on reducing our global overhead costs. As we continue to operate in a cyclical industry that is impacted by movements in the global and regional economies, we continually evaluate opportunities to further refine our cost structure. Assuming constant product mix and pricing, based on our 2017 results, we estimate that our EBITDA breakeven level would be reached if we experienced a 45% downturn to current product volumes. We have a strong balance sheet with gross debt of approximately $4.1 billion and substantial available liquidity of approximately $3.9 billion of cash and cash equivalents and available financing under our Revolving Credit Facility and committed European accounts receivable factoring facility (as defined below in Liquidity and Capital Resources) as of December 31, 2017 , and no significant U.S. defined benefit or workforce postretirement health care benefits and employer-paid postretirement basic life insurance benefits (“OPEB”) liabilities. We intend to maintain strong financial discipline targeting industry-leading earnings growth, cash flow generation and return on invested capital and to maintain sufficient liquidity to sustain our financial flexibility throughout the industry cycle. OEM product recalls . The number of vehicles recalled globally by OEMs has increased above historical levels. These recalls can either be initiated by the OEMs or influenced by regulatory agencies. Although there are differing rules and regulations across countries governing recalls for safety issues, the overall transition towards global vehicle platforms may also contribute to increased recalls outside of the U.S., as automotive components are increasingly standardized across regions. Given the sensitivity to safety issues in the automotive industry, including increased focus from regulators and consumers, we anticipate the number of automotive recalls may remain above historical levels in the near future. Although we engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, it is possible that we may be adversely affected in the future if the pace of these recalls continues. For example, in September 2016, one of our OEM customers initiated a recall of approximately 3.64 million vehicles in the United States to enhance the airbag deployment system. The Company supplied sensors and related control modules for the airbags in the affected vehicles. Although Aptiv believes it supplied these components in compliance with the customer's product specifications and validation criteria, we assisted with our customer's efforts surrounding its recall, and during the first quarter of 2017, reached an agreement with our customer to share costs associated with the recall. Accordingly, during the year ended December 31, 2017 we recognized an incremental $43 million charge in addition to our previously recorded reserve estimate related to this matter. Efficient use of capital . The global vehicle components industry is generally capital intensive and a portion of a supplier’s capital equipment is frequently utilized for specific customer programs. Lead times for procurement of capital equipment are long and typically exceed start of production by one to two years. Substantial advantages exist for suppliers that can leverage their prior investments in capital equipment or amortize the investment over higher volume global customer programs. Industry consolidation . Consolidation among worldwide suppliers is expected to continue as suppliers seek to achieve operating synergies and value stream efficiencies, acquire complementary technologies and build stronger customer relationships as OEMs continue to expand globally. Additionally, new entrants from outside the traditional automotive industry may seek to gain access to certain vehicle component markets, as evidenced by the acquisition of Harman International Industries, Incorporated by Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. and the acquisition of Mobileye N.V. by Intel Corporation. We believe companies with strong balance sheets and financial discipline are in the best position to take advantage of the industry consolidation trend. Our History and Structure On August 19, 2009, Delphi Automotive LLP, a limited liability partnership organized under the laws of England and Wales, was formed for the purpose of acquiring certain assets and subsidiaries of Old Delphi (“the Acquisition”), which, along 40 Table of Contents with certain of its U.S. subsidiaries, had filed voluntary petitions for bankruptcy in October 2005. On October 6, 2009, Delphi Automotive LLP acquired the major portion of the business of Old Delphi and issued membership interests to a group of investors consisting of certain lenders to Old Delphi, General Motors Company ("GM") and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (the “PBGC”). On March 31, 2011, all of the outstanding Class A and Class C membership interests held by GM and the PBGC were redeemed, respectively, for approximately $4.4 billion. On May 19, 2011, Delphi Automotive PLC was formed as a Jersey public limited company, and had nominal assets, no liabilities and had conducted no operations prior to its initial public offering. On November 22, 2011, in conjunction with the completion of its initial public offering by the selling shareholders, all of the outstanding equity of Delphi Automotive LLP was exchanged for ordinary shares by its equity holders in Delphi Automotive PLC. As a result, Delphi Automotive LLP became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Delphi Automotive PLC. On December 4, 2017 , the Company completed the Separation of its former Powertrain Systems segment by means of a spin-off to its shareholders. Following the Separation, the remaining company changed its name to Aptiv PLC and NYSE symbol to "APTV." The new independent public company formed for the Powertrain Systems business was named Delphi Technologies PLC and trades on the NYSE under the symbol "DLPH." Consolidated Results of Operations Our total net sales during the year ended December 31, 2017 were $12.9 billion , an increase of 5% compared to 2016 . This compares to total global OEM production increases of 3% in 2017 . The increase in our total net sales is primarily attributable to continued increased volumes in the Europe and Asia Pacific regions, partially offset by volume decreases of 4% in the North America region. Our overall lean cost structure enabled us to achieve above-market sales growth in each region and maintain strong levels of operating income, while continuing to strategically invest in the future. The increase in our total net sales of 13% during the year ended December 31, 2016 as compared to 2015 was primarily attributable to continued increased volumes in the North America, Europe and Asia Pacific regions, as well as incremental sales as a result of our acquisition of HellermannTyton in December 2015. Partially offsetting these increased volumes were reduced sales in our smallest region, South America, due to continued economic weakness resulting in continued reductions in OEM production schedules in the region. Aptiv typically experiences fluctuations in revenue due to changes in OEM production schedules, vehicle sales mix and the net of new and lost business (which we refer to collectively as volume), increased prices attributable to escalation clauses in our supply contracts for recovery of increased commodity costs (which we refer to as commodity pass-through), fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates (which we refer to as FX), contractual reductions of the sales price to the OEM (which we refer to as contractual price reductions) and engineering changes. Changes in sales mix can have either favorable or unfavorable impacts on revenue. Such changes can be the result of shifts in regional growth, shifts in OEM sales demand, as well as shifts in consumer demand related to vehicle segment purchases and content penetration. For instance, a shift in sales demand favoring a particular OEM’s vehicle model for which we do not have a supply contract may negatively impact our revenue. A shift in regional sales demand toward certain markets could favorably impact the sales of those of our customers that have a large market share in those regions, which in turn would be expected to have a favorable impact on our revenue. We typically experience (as described below) fluctuations in operating income due to: • Volume, net of contractual price reductions—changes in volume offset by contractual price reductions (which typically range from 1% to 3% of net sales) and changes in mix; • Operational performance—changes to costs for materials and commodities or manufacturing variances; and • Other—including restructuring costs and any remaining variances not included in Volume, net of contractual price reductions or Operational performance. The automotive component supply industry is traditionally subject to inflationary pressures with respect to raw materials and labor which may place operational and profitability burdens on the entire supply chain. We will continue to work with our customers and suppliers to mitigate the impact of these inflationary pressures in the future. In addition, we expect commodity cost volatility, particularly related to copper and petroleum-based resin products, to have a continual impact on future earnings and/or operating cash flows. As such, we continually seek to mitigate both inflationary pressures and our material-related cost exposures using a number of approaches, including combining purchase requirements with customers and/or other suppliers, using alternate suppliers or product designs, negotiating cost reductions and/or commodity cost contract escalation clauses into our vehicle manufacturer supply contracts and hedging. 41 Table of Contents 2017 versus 2016 The results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 Favorable/ (unfavorable) (dollars in millions) Net sales $ 12,884 $ 12,274 $ 610 Cost of sales 10,270 9,527 (743 ) Gross margin 2,614 20.3% 2,747 22.4% (133 ) Selling, general and administrative 952 924 (28 ) Amortization 117 117 — Restructuring 129 167 38 Operating income 1,416 1,539 (123 ) Interest expense (140 ) (155 ) 15 Other expense, net (21 ) (384 ) 363 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity income 1,255 1,000 255 Income tax expense (223 ) (167 ) (56 ) Income from continuing operations before equity income 1,032 833 199 Equity income, net of tax 31 35 (4 ) Income from continuing operations 1,063 868 195 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 365 458 (93 ) Net income 1,428 1,326 102 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest 73 69 4 Net income attributable to Aptiv $ 1,355 $ 1,257 $ 98 Total Net Sales Below is a summary of our total net sales for the years ended December 31, 2017 versus December 31, 2016 . Year Ended December 31, Variance Due To: 2017 2016 Favorable/ (unfavorable) Volume, net of contractual price reductions FX Commodity pass- through Other Total (in millions) (in millions) Total net sales $ 12,884 $ 12,274 $ 610 $ 717 $ 59 $ 104 $ (270 ) $ 610 Total net sales for the year ended December 31, 2017 increased 5% compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 . We experienced volume growth of 8% for the period, primarily as a result of increased sales in Europe and Asia Pacific, and favorable currency impacts, primarily related to the Euro, which was partially offset by decreases due to contractual price reductions. Net sales also decreased by a net $270 million as a result of acquisitions and divestitures, reflected in Other above, primarily due to the divestiture of our Mechatronics business in the fourth quarter of 2016, partially offset by the acquisition of Movimento in 2017. Refer to Note 20. Acquisitions and Divestitures to the audited consolidated financial statements included herein for further information regarding acquisitions and divestitures. Cost of Sales Cost of sales is primarily comprised of material, labor, manufacturing overhead, freight, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, product engineering, design and development expenses, depreciation and amortization, warranty costs and other operating expenses. Gross margin is revenue less cost of sales and gross margin percentage is gross margin as a percentage of net sales. Cost of sales increased $743 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 , as summarized below. The Company's material cost of sales was approximately 50% of net sales in both the years ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 . 42 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, Variance Due To: 2017 2016 Favorable/ (unfavorable) Volume (a) FX Operational performance Other Total (dollars in millions) (in millions) Cost of sales $ 10,270 $ 9,527 $ (743 ) $ (758 ) $ 7 $ 191 $ (183 ) $ (743 ) Gross margin $ 2,614 $ 2,747 $ (133 ) $ (41 ) $ 66 $ 191 $ (349 ) $ (133 ) Percentage of net sales 20.3 % 22.4 % (a) Presented net of contractual price reductions for gross margin variance. The increase in cost of sales reflects increased volumes, partially offset by improved operational performance and the impacts from currency exchange. The increase in cost of sales is also attributable to the following items in Other above: • The absence of the $141 million pre-tax gain on the divestiture of the Mechatronics business recorded during the year ended December 31, 2016, as further described in Note 20. Acquisitions and Divestitures; • $30 million of increased warranty costs, primarily due to the accrual of $43 million during the year ended December 31, 2017 as a result of an agreement reached with one of our customers for a specific warranty matter, as further described in Note 9. Warranty Obligations; • $57 million of increased depreciation and amortization, primarily as a result of a higher fixed asset base; and • Increased commodity costs of $104 million; partially offset by • Net decreased costs of $174 million resulting from the operations of the businesses acquired and divested, primarily as a result of the divestiture of our Mechatronics business in the fourth quarter of 2016, partially offset by the acquisition of Movimento in 2017, as further described in Note 20. Acquisitions and Divestitures. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 Favorable/ (unfavorable) (dollars in millions) Selling, general and administrative expense $ 952 $ 924 $ (28 ) Percentage of net sales 7.4 % 7.5 % Selling, general and administrative expense (“SG&A”) includes administrative expenses, information technology costs and incentive compensation related costs, and decreased as percentage of sales for the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to 2016 . The decrease as a percentage of sales was primarily due to the impact of cost reduction initiatives, including our continuing rotation to best cost manufacturing locations in Europe and initiatives focused on reducing global overhead costs. Amortization Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 Favorable/ (unfavorable) (in millions) Amortization $ 117 $ 117 $ — Amortization expense reflects the non-cash charge related to definite-lived intangible assets. The consistency in amortization during the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to 2016 reflects the continued amortization of our definite-lived intangible assets, which resulted primarily from our acquisitions, over their estimated useful lives. In 2018, we expect to incur non-cash amortization charges of approximately $117 million . 43 Table of Contents Restructuring Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 Favorable/ (unfavorable) (dollars in millions) Restructuring $ 129 $ 167 $ 38 Percentage of net sales 1.0 % 1.4 % Restructuring charges recorded during 2017 were primarily related to programs focused on the continued rotation of our manufacturing footprint to best cost locations in Europe and to reduce global overhead costs, including realignment of the Company's organizational structure due to changes in roles and workforce resulting from the spin-off of the Powertrain Systems segment. The Company recorded employee-related and other restructuring charges related to these programs totaling approximately $129 million during the year ended December 31, 2017 , of which $89 million was recognized for programs focused on the continued rotation of our manufacturing footprint to best cost locations in Europe. The charges recorded during the year ended December 31, 2017 included the recognition of approximately $36 million of employee-related and other costs related to the initiation of a program to close a Western European Advanced Safety and User Experience manufacturing site, pursuant to the Company's on-going European footprint rotation strategy. Cash payments for this restructuring action are expected to be principally completed by 2019 . We expect to make cash payments of approximately $90 million in 2018 pursuant to these implemented restructuring programs. Restructuring charges recorded during 2016 were primarily attributable to our restructuring programs which focused on the continued rotation of our manufacturing footprint to best cost locations in Europe and on reducing global overhead costs. The Company recorded employee-related and other restructuring charges related to these programs totaling approximately $167 million during the year ended December 31, 2016. These charges include $91 million for programs implemented to reduce global overhead costs, as well as $39 million for programs focused on the continued rotation of our manufacturing footprint to best cost locations in Europe. We expect to continue to incur additional restructuring expense in 2018, primarily related to programs focused on the continued rotation of our manufacturing footprint to best cost locations in Europe and to reduce global overhead costs, including realignment of the Company's organizational structure due to changes in roles and workforce resulting from the spin-off of the Powertrain Systems segment. Additionally, as we continue to operate in a cyclical industry that is impacted by movements in the global and regional economies, we continually evaluate opportunities to further adjust our cost structure and optimize our manufacturing footprint. The Company plans to implement additional restructuring activities in the future, if necessary, in order to align manufacturing capacity and other costs with prevailing regional automotive production levels and locations, to improve the efficiency and utilization of other locations and in order to increase investment in advanced technologies and engineering. Such future restructuring actions are dependent on market conditions, customer actions and other factors. Refer to Note 10. Restructuring to the audited consolidated financial statements included herein for additional information. Interest Expense Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 Favorable/ (unfavorable) (in millions) Interest expense $ 140 $ 155 $ 15 The decrease in interest expense compared to the prior year period primarily reflects the redemption of $800 million of 5.00% senior unsecured notes, partially offset by the issuance of €500 million of 1.60% Euro-denominated senior unsecured notes and $300 million of 4.40% senior unsecured notes, in September 2016. Refer to Note 11. Debt to the audited consolidated financial statements included herein for additional information. 44 Table of Contents Other Income, Net Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 Favorable/ (unfavorable) (in millions) Other expense, net $ (21 ) $ (384 ) $ 363 As further discussed in Note 13. Commitments and Contingencies to the audited consolidated financial statements included herein, during the year ended December 31, 2017 , Aptiv recorded an incremental reserve of $10 million as a result of a ruling in the Unsecured Creditors litigation related to pre-judgment interest, which was in addition to the Company's previously recorded reserve of $300 million for this matter. During the three months ended June 30, 2017, Aptiv and the plaintiffs entered into an agreement to settle this matter for $310 million, which Aptiv paid in July 2017. The Company also recorded $32 million during the year ended December 31, 2017 related to the components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit cost other than service costs, partially offset by $7 million of interest income. During the year ended December 31, 2016 , Aptiv recorded a reserve of $300 million as a result of a summary judgment ruling in the Unsecured Creditors litigation. Also during the year ended December 31, 2016 , Aptiv redeemed for cash the entire $800 million aggregate principal amount of 5.00% senior unsecured notes due 2023, which resulted in a loss on extinguishment of debt of approximately $70 million . The Company also recorded $18 million during the year ended December 31, 2016 related to the components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit cost other than service costs. Refer to Note 19. Other income, net and Note 11. Debt to the audited consolidated financial statements included herein for additional information. Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 Favorable/ (unfavorable) (in millions) Income tax expense $ 223 $ 167 $ (56 ) The Company’s tax rate is affected by the fact that its parent entity is a U.K. resident taxpayer, the tax rates in the U.K. and other jurisdictions in which the Company operates, the relative amount of income earned by jurisdiction and the relative amount of losses or income for which no tax benefit or expense was recognized due to a valuation allowance. The effective tax rate was 18% and 17% for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. The effective tax rate in the year ended December 31, 2017 was impacted by increased tax expense of approximately $50 million due to the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Legislation") in the United States on December 22, 2017, partially offset by favorable geographic income mix as compared to 2016, primarily due to changes in the underlying business operations. The Tax Legislation significantly revises the U.S. corporate income tax by, among other things, lowering corporate income tax rates and imposing a one-time repatriation tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. This impact was primarily the result of increased tax expense due to the one-time deemed repatriation tax and a reduction of our foreign tax credit, partially offset by the favorable impact of the reduced tax rate on the Company’s net deferred tax liabilities. Pursuant to the guidance within SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (“SAB 118”), as of December 31, 2017, the Company recognized the provisional effects of the enactment of the Tax Legislation for which measurement could be reasonably estimated. Although the Company continues to analyze certain aspects of the Tax Legislation and refine its assessment, the ultimate impact of the Tax Legislation may differ from these estimates due to its continued analysis or further regulatory guidance that may be issued as a result of the Tax Legislation. Pursuant to SAB 118, adjustments to the provisional amounts recorded by the Company as of December 31, 2017 that are identified within a subsequent measurement period of up to one year from the enactment date will be included as an adjustment to tax expense from continuing operations in the period the amounts are determined. The effective tax rate in the year ended December 31, 2016 was impacted by favorable geographic income mix in 2016 as compared to 2015, primarily due to changes in the underlying operations of the business, as well as $17 million for releases of valuation allowances as a result of the Company's determination that it was more likely than not that certain deferred tax assets would be realized. These benefits were offset by $76 million of reserve adjustments recorded for uncertain tax positions, which included reserves for ongoing audits in foreign jurisdictions, as well as for changes in estimates based on relevant new or additional evidence obtained related to certain of the Company's tax positions, including tax authority administrative pronouncements and court decisions. These reserve adjustments resulted in foreign tax credit benefits of approximately $18 45 Table of Contents million . Additionally, following a change in U.S. tax regulation during 2016, the Company recorded a tax credit benefit of approximately $16 million during the year ended December 31, 2016. Equity Income Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 Favorable/ (unfavorable) (in millions) Equity income, net of tax $ 31 $ 35 $ (4 ) Equity income, net of tax reflects the Company's interest in the results of ongoing operations of entities accounted for as equity-method investments. Equity income decreased during the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 , attributable to the performance of our joint ventures as compared to the prior period. Income from Discontinued Operations Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 Favorable/ (unfavorable) (in millions) Income from discontinued operations, net of tax $ 365 $ 458 $ (93 ) Income from discontinued operations, net of tax reflects the results of the Company's previously reported Powertrain Systems and Thermal Systems segments, which have been reclassified to discontinued operations as a result of the spin-off of the Powertrain Systems segment in December 2017 and the agreement for the sale of the Thermal Systems business during the first quarter of 2015. Income from discontinued operations, net of tax for the year ended December 31, 2017 decreased as compared to the year ended December 31, 2016, primarily due to the after-tax gain of $104 million recognized from the sale of the Company's interest in its SDAAC joint venture on March 31, 2016. This decrease was partially offset by increased sales and gross margin improvement resulting from successful cost reduction and footprint rotation initiatives at Powertrain Systems. The year ended December 31, 2017 also includes $118 million of separation costs recorded related to the spin-off. Refer to Note 25. Discontinued Operations to the audited consolidated financial statements included herein for additional information. Results of Operations by Segment We operate our core business along the following operating segments, which are grouped on the basis of similar product, market and operating factors: • Signal and Power Solutions, which includes complete electrical architecture and component products. • Advanced Safety and User Experience, which includes component and systems integration expertise in infotainment and connectivity, body controls and security systems, displays, passive and active safety electronics, autonomous driving software and technologies, as well as advanced development of software. • Eliminations and Other, which includes i) the elimination of inter-segment transactions, and ii) certain other expenses and income of a non-operating or strategic nature. As described in Note 25. Discontinued Operations to the audited consolidated financial statements contained herein, the Company's previously reported Powertrain Systems and Thermal Systems segments have been classified as discontinued operations, which required retrospective application to balance sheet, statement of operations and certain cash flow financial information for all periods presented. Discontinued operations also includes the Company's thermal original equipment service business, the results of which were previously reported within the Powertrain Systems segment. Certain operations, primarily related to contract manufacturing services previously included within the Thermal Systems segment but which were not included in the scope of the divestiture, and certain original equipment service businesses that was previously included within the Powertrain Systems segment but which was not included in the spin-off, are reported in continuing operations and have been reclassified within the Advanced Safety and User Experience and Signal and Power Solutions segments for all periods 46 Table of Contents presented. Amounts for shared general and administrative operating expenses that were allocated to the Powertrain Systems and Thermal Systems segments in prior periods have been re-allocated to the Company's reportable operating segments. Our management utilizes segment Adjusted Operating Income as the key performance measure of segment income or loss and for planning and forecasting purposes, as management believes this measure is most reflective of the operational profitability or loss of our operating segments. Segment Adjusted Operating Income should not be considered a substitute for results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered an alternative to net income attributable to Aptiv, which is the most directly comparable financial measure to Adjusted Operating Income that is prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Segment Adjusted Operating Income, as determined and measured by Aptiv, should also not be compared to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. The reconciliation of Adjusted Operating Income to Operating Income includes, as applicable, restructuring, other acquisition and portfolio project costs (which includes costs incurred to integrate acquired businesses and to plan and execute product portfolio transformation actions, including business and product acquisitions and divestitures), asset impairments, gains (losses) on business divestitures and deferred compensation related to acquisitions. The reconciliation of Adjusted Operating Income to net income attributable to Aptiv for the year s ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Signal and Power Solutions Advanced Safety and User Experience Eliminations and Other Total (in millions) For the Year Ended December 31, 2017: Adjusted operating income $ 1,302 $ 292 $ — $ 1,594 Restructuring (67 ) (62 ) — (129 ) Other acquisition and portfolio project costs (21 ) (7 ) — (28 ) Asset impairments (8 ) (1 ) — (9 ) Deferred compensation related to nuTonomy acquisition — (12 ) — (12 ) Operating income $ 1,206 $ 210 $ — 1,416 Interest expense (140 ) Other expense, net (21 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity income 1,255 Income tax expense (223 ) Equity income, net of tax 31 Income from continuing operations 1,063 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 365 Net income 1,428 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest 73 Net income attributable to Aptiv $ 1,355 47 Table of Contents Signal and Power Solutions Advanced Safety and User Experience Eliminations and Other Total (in millions) For the Year Ended December 31, 2016: Adjusted operating income $ 1,272 $ 351 $ — $ 1,623 Restructuring (125 ) (42 ) — (167 ) Other acquisition and portfolio project costs (48 ) (9 ) — (57 ) Asset impairments — (1 ) — (1 ) Gain (loss) on business divestitures, net — 141 — 141 Operating income $ 1,099 $ 440 $ — 1,539 Interest expense (155 ) Other expense, net (384 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity income 1,000 Income tax expense (167 ) Equity income, net of tax 35 Income from continuing operations 868 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 458 Net income 1,326 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest 69 Net income attributable to Aptiv $ 1,257 Net sales, gross margin as a percentage of net sales and Adjusted Operating Income by segment for the year s ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Net Sales by Segment Year Ended December 31, Variance Due To: 2017 2016 Favorable/ (unfavorable) Volume, net of contractual price reductions FX Commodity Pass-through Other Total (in millions) (in millions) Signal and Power Solutions $ 9,507 $ 9,319 $ 188 $ 38 $ 47 $ 104 $ (1 ) $ 188 Advanced Safety and User Experience 3,446 3,024 422 679 18 — (275 ) 422 Eliminations and Other (69 ) (69 ) — — (6 ) — 6 — Total $ 12,884 $ 12,274 $ 610 $ 717 $ 59 $ 104 $ (270 ) $ 610 Gross Margin Percentage by Segment Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 Signal and Power Solutions 22.2 % 22.1 % Advanced Safety and User Experience (1) 14.7 % 22.8 % Eliminations and Other — % — % Total 20.3 % 22.4 % (1) Includes a pre-tax gain of $141 million recognized on the divestiture of the Company's Mechatronics business during the year ended December 31, 2016. 48 Table of Contents Adjusted Operating Income by Segment Year Ended December 31, Variance Due To: 2017 2016 Favorable/ (unfavorable) Volume, net of contractual price reductions Operational performance Other Total (in millions) (in millions) Signal and Power Solutions $ 1,302 $ 1,272 $ 30 $ (145 ) $ 154 $ 21 $ 30 Advanced Safety and User Experience 292 351 (59 ) 85 37 (181 ) (59 ) Eliminations and Other — — — — — — — Total $ 1,594 $ 1,623 $ (29 ) $ (60 ) $ 191 $ (160 ) $ (29 ) As noted in the table above, Adjusted Operating Income for the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 was impacted by volume and contractual price reductions, including product mix, and operational performance improvements, as well as the following items included in Other in the table above: • $49 million of increased depreciation and amortization, not including the impact of asset impairments, primarily as a result of a higher fixed asset base; • Increased SG&A expenses of $28 million recorded during the year ended December 31, 2017 , primarily attributable to increased information technology costs; • $30 million of increased warranty costs, primarily due to the accrual of $43 million during the year ended December 31, 2017 within the Advanced Safety and User Experience segment as a result of an agreement reached with one of our customers for a specific warranty matter, as further described in Note 6. Warranty Obligations; and • Net reductions of $95 million resulting from the operations of the businesses acquired and divested, primarily resulting from the divestiture of our Mechatronics business in the fourth quarter of 2016 and the acquisitions of Movimento and nuTonomy in 2017. • These decreases in Adjusted Operating Income were partially offset by favorable foreign currency impacts of $55 million, primarily related to the Euro. 49 Table of Contents Consolidated Results of Operations 2016 versus 2015 The results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 Favorable/ (unfavorable) (dollars in millions) Net sales $ 12,274 $ 10,864 $ 1,410 Cost of sales 9,527 8,691 (836 ) Gross margin 2,747 22.4% 2,173 20.0% 574 Selling, general and administrative 924 803 (121 ) Amortization 117 70 (47 ) Restructuring 167 65 (102 ) Operating income 1,539 1,235 304 Interest expense (155 ) (124 ) (31 ) Other expense, net (384 ) (114 ) (270 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity income 1,000 997 3 Income tax expense (167 ) (161 ) (6 ) Income from continuing operations before equity income 833 836 (3 ) Equity income, net of tax 35 16 19 Income from continuing operations 868 852 16 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 458 683 (225 ) Net income 1,326 1,535 (209 ) Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest 69 85 (16 ) Net income attributable to Aptiv $ 1,257 $ 1,450 $ (193 ) Total Net Sales Below is a summary of Aptiv’s total net sales for the year ended December 31, 2016 versus December 31, 2015 . Year Ended December 31, Variance Due To: 2016 2015 Favorable/ (unfavorable) Volume, net of contractual price reductions FX Commodity pass-through Other Total (in millions) (in millions) Total net sales $ 12,274 $ 10,864 $ 1,410 $ 992 $ (159 ) $ (127 ) $ 704 $ 1,410 Total net sales for the year ended December 31, 2016 increased 13% compared to the year ended December 31, 2015. We experienced volume growth of 11% for the period, primarily as a result of increased sales in North America, Europe and Asia Pacific, which was partially offset by decreases due to unfavorable currency impacts, primarily related to the Chinese Yuan Renminbi, and contractual price reductions. Net sales also increased by a net $704 million as a result of acquisitions and divestitures, reflected in Other above, primarily resulting from the net sales of HellermannTyton for the year ended December 31, 2016, partially offset by a reduction in sales resulting from the divestiture of our Reception Systems business in the third quarter of 2015. Refer to Note 20. Acquisitions and Divestitures to the audited consolidated financial statements included herein for further information regarding acquisitions and divestitures. Cost of Sales Cost of sales is primarily comprised of material, labor, manufacturing overhead, freight, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, product engineering, design and development expenses, depreciation and amortization, warranty costs and other operating expenses. Gross margin is revenue less cost of sales and gross margin percentage is gross margin as a percentage of net sales. 50 Table of Contents Cost of sales increased $836 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 , as summarized below. The Company's material cost of sales was approximately 50% of net sales in both the year ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 . Year Ended December 31, Variance Due To: 2016 2015 Favorable/ (unfavorable) Volume (a) FX Operational performance Other Total (dollars in millions) (in millions) Cost of sales $ 9,527 $ 8,691 $ (836 ) $ (885 ) $ 168 $ 155 $ (274 ) $ (836 ) Gross margin $ 2,747 $ 2,173 $ 574 $ 107 $ 9 $ 155 $ 303 $ 574 Percentage of net sales 22.4 % 20.0 % (a) Presented net of contractual price reductions for gross margin variance. The increase in cost of sales reflects increased volumes, partially offset by improved operational performance and the impacts from currency exchange. The increase in cost of sales is also attributable to the following items in Other above: • Net increased costs of $419 million resulting from the operations of the businesses acquired and divested, primarily HellermannTyton, as further described in Note 20. Acquisitions and Divestitures; partially offset by • The $141 million pre-tax gain on the divestiture of the Mechatronics business recorded during the year ended December 31, 2016, as further described in Note 20. Acquisitions and Divestitures. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 Favorable/ (unfavorable) (dollars in millions) Selling, general and administrative expense $ 924 $ 803 $ (121 ) Percentage of net sales 7.5 % 7.4 % Selling, general and administrative expense (“SG&A”) includes administrative expenses, information technology costs and incentive compensation related costs. The increase in SG&A for the year ended December 31, 2016 as compared to 2015 is primarily due to the acquisition of HellermannTyton in December 2015. Amortization Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 Favorable/ (unfavorable) (in millions) Amortization $ 117 $ 70 $ (47 ) Amortization expense reflects the non-cash charge related to definite-lived intangible assets. The increase in amortization during the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to 2015 resulted primarily from the acquisition of HellermannTyton in December 2015. Refer to Note 20. Acquisitions and Divestitures to the audited consolidated financial statements included herein for further detail of our business acquisitions completed in 2016 and 2015, including details of the intangible assets recorded in each transaction. 51 Table of Contents Restructuring Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 Favorable/ (unfavorable) (dollars in millions) Restructuring $ 167 $ 65 $ (102 ) Percentage of net sales 1.4 % 0.6 % Restructuring charges recorded during 2016 were primarily attributable to our restructuring programs which focused on the continued rotation of our manufacturing footprint to best cost locations in Europe and on reducing global overhead costs. The Company recorded employee-related and other restructuring charges related to these programs totaling approximately $167 million during the year ended December 31, 2016. These charges included $91 million for programs implemented to reduce global overhead costs, as well as $39 million for programs focused on the continued rotation of our manufacturing footprint to best cost locations in Europe. During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded employee-related and other restructuring charges totaling approximately $65 million , primarily related to on-going restructuring programs focused on aligning manufacturing capacity with the levels of automotive production in Europe and South America, and the continued rotation of our manufacturing footprint to low cost locations within these regions. Refer to Note 10. Restructuring to the audited consolidated financial statements included herein for additional information. Interest Expense Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 Favorable/ (unfavorable) (in millions) Interest expense $ 155 $ 124 $ (31 ) The increase in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2016 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 reflects the issuance of $650 million of 3.15% senior unsecured notes and $650 million of 4.25% senior unsecured notes in the fourth quarter of 2015, which issuances were conducted principally to finance a portion of the cost to acquire HellermannTyton. Partially offsetting this increase, in September 2016, Aptiv issued €500 million of 1.60% Euro-denominated senior unsecured notes and $300 million of 4.40% senior unsecured notes, the combined net proceeds from which were used to redeem $800 million of 5.00% senior unsecured notes due 2023. Refer to Note 11. Debt to the audited consolidated financial statements included herein for additional information. Other Income, Net Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 Favorable/ (unfavorable) (in millions) Other (expense) income, net $ (384 ) $ (114 ) $ (270 ) As further discussed in Note 13. Commitments and Contingencies to the audited consolidated financial statements included herein, during the year ended December 31, 2016, Aptiv recorded a reserve of $300 million as a result of a summary judgment ruling in the Unsecured Creditors litigation. Also during the year ended December 31, 2016, Aptiv redeemed for cash the entire $800 million aggregate principal amount of 5.00% senior unsecured notes due 2023, which resulted in a loss on extinguishment of debt of approximately $70 million. The Company also recorded $18 million during the year ended December 31, 2016 related to the components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit cost other than service costs. Partially offsetting these expenses, Aptiv recorded $8 million for certain fees earned pursuant to the transition services agreement in connection with the sale of the Company's wholly owned Thermal Systems business, and $1 million of interest income. 52 Table of Contents During the year ended December 31, 2015, Aptiv redeemed for cash the entire aggregate principal amount outstanding of the 6.125% senior unsecured notes due 2021 and cancelled the Senior Bridge Credit Agreement, resulting in losses on extinguishment of debt of approximately $52 million and $6 million, respectively. Aptiv also incurred approximately $23 million in transaction costs related to the acquisition of HellermannTyton and, as further discussed in Note 17. Derivatives and Hedging Activities, recorded a loss of $15 million on option contracts entered into in order to hedge portions of the currency risk associated with the acquisition of HellermannTyton. The Company also recorded $26 million during the year ended December 31, 2015 related to the components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit cost other than service costs. Partially offsetting these expenses, Aptiv recorded $8 million for certain fees earned pursuant to the transition services agreement in connection with the sale of the Company's wholly owned Thermal Systems business, and $5 million of interest income. Refer to Note 19. Other income, net and Note 11. Debt to the audited consolidated financial statements included herein for additional information. Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 Favorable/ (unfavorable) (in millions) Income tax expense $ 167 $ 161 $ (6 ) The Company’s tax rate is affected by the fact that its parent entity is a U.K. resident taxpayer, the tax rates in the U.K. and other jurisdictions in which the Company operates, the relative amount of income earned by jurisdiction and the relative amount of losses or income for which no tax benefit or expense was recognized due to a valuation allowance. The effective tax rate was 17% and 16% for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The effective tax rate in the year ended December 31, 2016 was impacted by favorable geographic income mix in 2016 as compared to 2015, primarily due to changes in the underlying operations of the business, as well as $17 million for releases of valuation allowances as a result of the Company's determination that it was more likely than not that certain deferred tax assets would be realized. These benefits were offset by $76 million of reserve adjustments recorded for uncertain tax positions, which included reserves for ongoing audits in foreign jurisdictions, as well as for changes in estimates based on relevant new or additional evidence obtained related to certain of the Company's tax positions, including tax authority administrative pronouncements and court decisions. These reserve adjustments resulted in foreign tax credit benefits of approximately $18 million. Additionally, following a change in U.S. tax regulation during 2016, the Company recorded a tax credit benefit of approximately $16 million during the year ended December 31, 2016. The effective tax rate in the year ended December 31, 2015 was impacted by increased tax expense of $15 million resulting from changes in judgment related to deferred tax asset valuation allowances, as well as the enactment of the U.K. Finance (No. 2) Act 2015 (the “U.K. 2015 Finance Act”) on November 18, 2015, which provides for a reduction of the corporate income tax rate from 20% to 19% effective April 1, 2017, with a further reduction to 18% effective April 1, 2020. The income tax accounting effect, including any retroactive effect, of a tax law change is accounted for in the period of enactment, which in this case was the fourth quarter of 2015. As a result, the effective tax rate was impacted by an increased tax expense of approximately $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 due to the resulting impact on the net deferred tax asset balances. Equity Income Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 Favorable/ (unfavorable) (in millions) Equity income, net of tax $ 35 $ 16 $ 19 Equity income, net of tax reflects Aptiv’s interest in the results of ongoing operations of entities accounted for as equity-method investments. Equity income increased during the year ended December 31, 2016 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2015, primarily due to improved performance of our North American joint venture as compared to the prior period. 53 Table of Contents Income from Discontinued Operations Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 Favorable/ (unfavorable) (in millions) Income from discontinued operations, net of tax $ 458 $ 683 $ (225 ) Income from discontinued operations, net of tax reflects the results of the Company's previously reported Powertrain Systems and Thermal Systems segments, which have been reclassified to discontinued operations as a result of the spin-off of the Powertrain Systems segment in December 2017 and the agreement for the sale of the Thermal Systems business during the first quarter of 2015. As further described in Note 25. Discontinued Operations to the audited consolidated financial statements included herein, Aptiv completed the divestitures of the wholly owned Thermal Systems business on June 30, 2015, of its 50 percent interest in KDAC on September 24, 2015 and of its 50 percent interest in SDAAC on March 31, 2016. Income from discontinued operations, net of tax decreased during the year ended December 31, 2016 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2015. Income from discontinued operations, net of tax for the year ended December 31, 2016 included the after-tax gain of $104 million recognized from the sale of the Company's interest in its SDAAC joint venture on March 31, 2016. Income from discontinued operations, net of tax for the year ended December 31, 2016 also included increased restructuring expense of $46 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2015, primarily related to the closure of a Powertrain Systems European manufacturing site. Income from discontinued operations, net of tax for the year ended December 31, 2015 included the recognition of a net after-tax gain of $271 million on the sale of the Company's wholly owned Thermal Systems business, partially offset by the net loss of $41 million on the divestiture of the Company's interest in KDAC during 2015, which included the recognition of an after-tax impairment loss on this interest of $88 million recorded within income from discontinued operations prior to the sale. Refer to Note 25. Discontinued Operations to the audited consolidated financial statements included herein for additional information. Results of Operations by Segment As described in Note 25. Discontinued Operations to the audited consolidated financial statements contained herein, the Company's previously reported Powertrain Systems and Thermal Systems segments have been classified as discontinued operations, which required retrospective application to balance sheet, statement of operations and certain cash flow financial information for all periods presented. Discontinued operations also includes the Company's thermal original equipment service business, the results of which were previously reported within the Powertrain Systems segment. Certain operations, primarily related to contract manufacturing services previously included within the Thermal Systems segment but which were not included in the scope of the divestiture, and the original equipment service business that was previously included within the Powertrain Systems segment but which was not included in the spin-off, are reported in continuing operations and have been reclassified within the Advanced Safety and User Experience and Signal and Power Solutions segments for all periods presented. Amounts for shared general and administrative operating expenses that were allocated to the Powertrain Systems and Thermal Systems segments in prior periods have been re-allocated to the Company's reportable operating segments. The reconciliation of Adjusted Operating Income to Operating Income includes, as applicable, restructuring, other acquisition and portfolio project costs (which includes costs incurred to integrate acquired businesses and to plan and execute product portfolio transformation actions, including business and product acquisitions and divestitures), asset impairments and gains (losses) on business divestitures. The reconciliations of Adjusted Operating Income to net income attributable to Aptiv for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: 54 Table of Contents Signal and Power Solutions Advanced Safety and User Experience Eliminations and Other Total (in millions) For the Year Ended December 31, 2016: Adjusted operating income $ 1,272 $ 351 $ — $ 1,623 Restructuring (125 ) (42 ) — (167 ) Other acquisition and portfolio project costs (48 ) (9 ) — (57 ) Asset impairments — (1 ) — (1 ) Gain (loss) on business divestitures, net — 141 — 141 Operating income $ 1,099 $ 440 $ — 1,539 Interest expense (155 ) Other expense, net (384 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity income 1,000 Income tax expense (167 ) Equity income, net of tax 35 Income from continuing operations 868 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 458 Net income 1,326 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest 69 Net income attributable to Aptiv $ 1,257 Signal and Power Solutions Advanced Safety and User Experience Eliminations and Other Total (in millions) For the Year Ended December 31, 2015: Adjusted operating income $ 1,013 $ 347 $ — $ 1,360 Restructuring (39 ) (26 ) — (65 ) Other acquisition and portfolio project costs (32 ) (13 ) — (45 ) Asset impairments (4 ) (3 ) — (7 ) Gain (loss) on business divestitures, net (14 ) 6 — (8 ) Operating income $ 924 $ 311 $ — 1,235 Interest expense (124 ) Other expense, net (114 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity income 997 Income tax expense (161 ) Equity income, net of tax 16 Income from continuing operations 852 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 683 Net income 1,535 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest 85 Net income attributable to Aptiv $ 1,450 55 Table of Contents Net sales, gross margin as a percentage of net sales and Adjusted Operating Income by segment for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Net Sales by Segment Year Ended December 31, Variance Due To: 2016 2015 Favorable/ (unfavorable) Volume, net of contractual price reductions FX Commodity Pass-through Other Total (in millions) (in millions) Signal and Power Solutions $ 9,319 $ 8,183 $ 1,136 $ 628 $ (137 ) $ (127 ) $ 772 $ 1,136 Advanced Safety and User Experience 3,024 2,756 268 364 (26 ) — (70 ) 268 Eliminations and Other (69 ) (75 ) 6 — 4 — 2 6 Total $ 12,274 $ 10,864 $ 1,410 $ 992 $ (159 ) $ (127 ) $ 704 $ 1,410 Gross Margin Percentage by Segment Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 Signal and Power Solutions 22.1 % 19.7 % Advanced Safety and User Experience (1) 22.8 % 20.2 % Eliminations and Other — % — % Total 22.4 % 20.0 % (1) Includes a pre-tax gain of $141 million recognized on the divestiture of the Company's Mechatronics business during the year ended December 31, 2016. Adjusted Operating Income by Segment Year Ended December 31, Variance Due To: 2016 2015 Favorable/ (unfavorable) Volume, net of contractual price reductions Operational performance Other Total (in millions) (in millions) Signal and Power Solutions $ 1,272 $ 1,013 $ 259 $ 116 $ 66 $ 77 $ 259 Advanced Safety and User Experience 351 347 4 (19 ) 89 (66 ) 4 Eliminations and Other — — — — — — — Total $ 1,623 $ 1,360 $ 263 $ 97 $ 155 $ 11 $ 263 As noted in the table above, Adjusted Operating Income for the year ended December 31, 2016 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 was impacted by volume and contractual price reductions, including product mix, and operational performance improvements, as well as the following items included in Other in the table above: • Net increased adjusted operating income of $95 million resulting from the operations of the businesses acquired and divested, primarily resulting from the operations of HellermannTyton, partially offset by a reduction resulting from the divestiture of our Reception Systems business in 2015; partially offset by • $61 million of increased depreciation and amortization, not including depreciation and amortization of businesses acquired and divested; and • Increased warranty costs of $30 million, which includes increased reserves for expected future claims on products sold and our estimated obligations for warranty matters based on information received from, and discussions with, our customers. 56 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview of Capital Structure Our liquidity requirements are primarily to fund our business operations, including capital expenditures and working capital requirements, as well as to fund debt service requirements, operational restructuring activities and dividends on share capital. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations, our existing cash balance, and as necessary, borrowings under available credit facilities and issuance of long-term debt. To the extent we generate discretionary cash flow we may consider using this additional cash flow for optional prepayments of existing indebtedness, strategic acquisitions or investments, additional share repurchases, and/or general corporate purposes. We will also continually explore ways to enhance our capital structure. As of December 31, 2017 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $1.6 billion and net debt (defined as outstanding debt less cash and cash equivalents) of $2.6 billion . We also have access to additional liquidity pursuant to the terms of the $2.0 billion Revolving Credit Facility and the €300 million committed European accounts receivable factoring facility. The following table summarizes our available liquidity, which includes cash, cash equivalents and funds available under our significant committed credit facilities, as of December 31, 2017 . The amounts disclosed as available under the Company’s significant committed credit facilities are available without violating our existing debt covenants, which are described below. December 31, 2017 (in millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,596 Revolving Credit Facility, unutilized portion (1) 1,993 Committed European accounts receivable factoring facility, unutilized portion (2) 360 Total available liquidity $ 3,949 (1) Availability reduced by $7 million in letters of credit issued under the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2017 . (2) Based on December 31, 2017 foreign currency rates, subject to the availability of eligible accounts receivable. We expect existing cash, available liquidity and cash flows from operations to continue to be sufficient to fund our global operating activities, including restructuring payments, any mandatory payments required under the Credit Agreement as described below, dividends on ordinary shares and capital expenditures. In addition, we expect to continue to repurchase outstanding ordinary shares pursuant to our authorized ordinary share repurchase program, as further described below. We also continue to expect to be able to move funds between different countries to manage our global liquidity needs without material adverse tax implications, subject to current monetary policies and to the terms of the Credit Agreement. While a substantial portion of our operating income is generated by our non-U.S. subsidiaries, and as of December 31, 2017 , the Company's cash and cash equivalents held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries totaled $1.5 billion, we utilize a combination of strategies, including dividends, cash pooling arrangements, intercompany loan repayments and other distributions and advances to provide the funds necessary to meet our global liquidity needs. There are no significant restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to Aptiv. If additional non-U.S. cash was needed for our U.S. operations, we may be required to accrue and pay withholding if we were to distribute such funds from non-U.S. subsidiaries to the U.S.; however, based on our current liquidity needs and strategies, we do not anticipate a need to accrue and pay such additional amounts. Based on these factors, we believe we possess sufficient liquidity to fund our global operations and capital investments in 2018 and beyond. Spin-Off of Powertrain Systems Segment into Delphi Technologies On December 4, 2017 , the Company completed the Separation of its former Powertrain Systems segment by distributing to Aptiv shareholders on a pro rata basis all of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares of Delphi Technologies, a public limited company formed to hold the spun-off business. To effect the Separation, the Company distributed to its shareholders one ordinary share of Delphi Technologies for every three Aptiv ordinary shares outstanding as of November 22, 2017 , the record date for the distribution. On December 4, 2017 , pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement, the Company transferred to Delphi Technologies the assets and liabilities that comprised Delphi Technologies’ business. In connection with the Separation, the Company received a dividend of approximately $1,148 million from Delphi Technologies. The Company intends to use the proceeds received from the dividend to fund growth initiatives, including increased investment in advanced technologies and engineering, and for general corporate purposes. The requirements for presenting Delphi Technologies as a discontinued 57 Table of Contents operation were met when the Separation was completed. Accordingly, the accompanying consolidated financial statements reflect this business as a discontinued operation for all periods presented. Refer to Note 25. Discontinued Operations to the audited consolidated financial statements contained herein for further disclosure related to the Company's discontinued operations. In connection with the Separation, Aptiv and Delphi Technologies entered into various agreements to effect the Separation and to provide a framework for their relationship following the Separation, which included a Separation and Distribution Agreement, a Transition Services Agreement, a Tax Matters Agreement, an Employee Matters Agreement and Contract Manufacturing Services Arrangements. The transition services primarily involve Aptiv providing certain services to Delphi Technologies related to information technology and human resource infrastructure for terms of up to 24 months following the Separation. Amounts billed to Delphi Technologies pursuant to the Transition Services Agreement were not significant during the year ended December 31, 2017, and are anticipated to be approximately $80 million in 2018. In addition, Aptiv is also party to various commercial agreements with Delphi Technologies entities. In connection with the Separation, the Company received $180 million in cash from Delphi Technologies pursuant to the Tax Matters Agreement. As a result of the Separation, the Company incurred approximately $118 million in separation costs during the year ended December 31, 2017 , which are included within earnings from discontinued operations, net of income taxes in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Operations. These costs primarily related to professional fees associated with planning the Separation, as well as Separation activities within finance, tax, legal and information system functions and certain investment banking fees incurred upon the Separation. Indebtedness Related to the Delphi Technologies Separation As described above, the Company received a dividend of approximately $1,148 million from Delphi Technologies in connection with the Separation. Delphi Technologies financed this dividend through the issuance of approximately $1.55 billion of debt, consisting of a senior secured five-year $750 million term loan facility that was issued upon the Separation and $800 million aggregate principal amount of 5.00% senior unsecured notes due 2025 that were issued in September 2017 (collectively, the "Delphi Technologies Debt"). In connection with the Separation, the Delphi Technologies Debt was transferred to Delphi Technologies and is no longer reflected in the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Share Repurchases In April 2016, the Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program of up to $1.5 billion of ordinary shares, which commenced in September 2016 following the completion of the Company's $1.5 billion January 2015 share repurchase program. This share repurchase program provides for share purchases in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, depending on share price, market conditions and other factors, as determined by the Company. A summary of the ordinary shares repurchased during the years ended December 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 2015 Total number of shares repurchased 4,667,193 9,481,946 14,581,705 Average price paid per share $ 82.00 $ 66.93 $ 79.48 Total (in millions) $ 383 $ 635 $ 1,159 As of December 31, 2017 , approximately $989 million of share repurchases remained available under the April 2016 share repurchase program. All repurchased shares were retired, and are reflected as a reduction of ordinary share capital for the par value of the shares, with the excess applied as reductions to additional paid-in capital and retained earnings. 58 Table of Contents Dividends to Holders of Ordinary Shares The Company has declared and paid cash dividends per ordinary share during the periods presented as follows: Dividend Amount Per Share (in millions) 2017: Fourth quarter $ 0.29 $ 77 Third quarter 0.29 77 Second quarter 0.29 78 First quarter 0.29 78 Total $ 1.16 $ 310 2016: Fourth quarter $ 0.29 $ 79 Third quarter 0.29 79 Second quarter 0.29 79 First quarter 0.29 80 Total $ 1.16 $ 317 Following the Separation, in December 2017, the Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.22 per ordinary share, payable on February 14, 2018 to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 5, 2018. Dividends from Equity Investments During the years ended December 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , Aptiv received dividends of $15 million , $17 million and $17 million , respectively, from its equity method investments. The dividends were recognized as a reduction to the investment and represented a return on investment included in cash flows from operating activities from continuing operations. Acquisitions nuTonomy —On November 21, 2017 , Aptiv acquired 100% of the equity interests of nuTonomy, Inc. ("nuTonomy"), a leading provider of autonomous driving software and technology, for total consideration of up to $454 million . Of the total consideration, $284 million of purchase price was paid at closing, subject to certain post-closing adjustments, and $109 million of the purchase price will vest to certain selling shareholders in annual installments over a three -year period from the acquisition date, subject to such shareholders' compliance with certain employment conditions. Of the $109 million , approximately $7 million is payable after one year and approximately $51 million is payable after each of the second and third years following the acquisition date. These remaining installments will be recorded as a component of selling, general and administrative expense ratably over the respective installment period. As further described in Note 20. Acquisitions and Divestitures to the audited consolidated financial statements contained herein, the acquisition was accounted for as a business combination, with the operating results of nuTonomy included within the Company's Advanced Safety and User Experience segment from the date of acquisition. The Company acquired nuTonomy utilizing cash on hand. Movimento —On January 3, 2017 , Aptiv acquired 100% of the equity interests of Movimento Group ("Movimento"), a leading provider of Over-the-Air software and data management for the automotive sector, for a purchase price of $40 million at closing and an additional cash payment of up to $10 million contingent upon the achievement of certain performance metrics over a future 2 -year period. As further described in Note 20. Acquisitions and Divestitures to the audited consolidated financial statements contained herein, the acquisition was accounted for as a business combination, with the operating results of Movimento included within the Company's Advanced Safety and User Experience segment from the date of acquisition. The Company acquired Movimento utilizing cash on hand. PureDepth —On March 23, 2016, Aptiv acquired 100% of the equity interests of PureDepth, Inc. ("PureDepth"), a leading provider of 3D display technology, for approximately $15 million. As further described in Note 20. Acquisitions and Divestitures to the audited consolidated financial statements contained herein, the acquisition was accounted for as a business combination, with the operating results of PureDepth included within the Company's Advanced Safety and User Experience segment from the date of acquisition. The Company acquired PureDepth utilizing cash on hand. HellermannTyton —On December 18, 2015 , pursuant to the terms of a recommended offer made on July 30, 2015, Aptiv completed the acquisition of 100% of the issued ordinary share capital of HellermannTyton Group PLC ("HellermannTyton") a public limited company based in the United Kingdom, and a leading global manufacturer of high-performance and innovative cable management solutions. The acquisition of HellermannTyton expanded Aptiv’s product portfolio within the connected 59 Table of Contents vehicle solutions market and will help capitalize on the connected car megatrend. The acquisition also further strengthens Aptiv’s leading position in the electrical architecture market, while providing a platform to grow in HellermannTyton’s adjacent industrial end markets, including aerospace, defense, alternative energy and mass transit. Aptiv paid 480 pence per HellermannTyton share, or approximately $1.5 billion in the aggregate, net of cash acquired. HellermannTyton had 2014 sales of approximately €600 million (approximately 6% of which were to Aptiv and will be eliminated on a consolidated basis). Approximately $242 million of HellermannTyton outstanding debt to third-party creditors was assumed and subsequently paid off. Upon completing the acquisition, Aptiv incurred transaction related expenses totaling approximately $23 million , which were recorded within other income (expense), net in the statement of operations in the fourth quarter of 2015. The results of operations of HellermannTyton are reported within the Signal and Power Solutions segment from the date of acquisition. Aptiv financed the cash payment required to close the acquisition of HellermannTyton primarily with the net proceeds received from the offering of $1.3 billion of 2015 Senior Notes, as further described below, with the remainder of the purchase price funded with cash on hand that was received from the sale of the Company's Thermal Systems business, as further described below. Prior to the transaction closing, in connection with the offer to acquire HellermannTyton in July 2015, £540 million ( $844 million using July 30, 2015 foreign currency rates) was placed on deposit for purposes of satisfying a portion of the consideration required to effect the acquisition. Prior to the issuance of the 2015 Senior Notes, in connection with the offer to acquire HellermannTyton, on July 30, 2015, Aptiv PLC and certain of its subsidiaries, certain financial institutions from time to time party thereto, as lenders and Barclays Bank PLC, as administrative agent, entered into a Senior Bridge Credit Agreement (the "Senior Bridge Credit Agreement"), pursuant to which the lenders thereunder agreed to provide a £550 million bridge term loan facility. The Senior Bridge Credit Agreement was automatically terminated on November 19, 2015 in connection with the issuance of the 2015 Senior Notes, and unamortized issuance costs of $6 million associated with the agreement were written-off to other income (expense), net during the year ended December 31, 2015. The Company did not draw on the Senior Bridge Credit Agreement. Control-Tec —On November 30, 2015 , Aptiv acquired Control-Tec, LLC ("Control-Tec"), a leading provider of telematics and cloud-hosted data analytics solutions, for a purchase price of $104 million at closing, with an additional cash payment of up to $40 million due upon the achievement of certain financial performance metrics over a future 3 -year period. As further described in Note 18. Fair Value of Financial Instruments to the audited consolidated financial statements contained herein, based on the results of the acquired business, Aptiv paid $20 million of contingent consideration in 2017 pursuant to the terms of the acquisition agreement. As further described in Note 20. Acquisitions and Divestitures to the audited consolidated financial statements contained herein, the acquisition was accounted for as a business combination, with the operating results of Control-Tec included within the Company's Advanced Safety and User Experience segment from the date of acquisition. The Company acquired Control-Tec utilizing cash on hand. Ottomatika —On July 23, 2015 , Aptiv acquired Ottomatika, Inc. ("Ottomatika"), an automated vehicle system software developer. The Company paid $16 million at closing, with additional cash payments totaling $11 million deferred over a period of 3 years and additional contingent consideration of up to $5 million due upon the achievement of certain product development milestones over a 3 -year period. As further described in Note 20. Acquisitions and Divestitures to the audited consolidated financial statements contained herein, the acquisition was accounted for as a business combination, with the operating results of Ottomatika included within the Company's Advanced Safety and User Experience segment from the date of acquisition. The Company acquired Ottomatika utilizing cash on hand. Technology Investments —During the third quarter of 2017, the Company's Advanced Safety and User Experience segment made investments in two leading developers of Light Detection and Ranging (“LIDAR”) technology, a $15 million investment in Innoviz Technologies and a $10 million investment in LeddarTech, Inc. During the second quarter of 2017, the Company's Signal and Power Solutions segment made a $10 million investment in Valens Semiconductor Ltd., a leading provider of signal processing technology for high frequency data transmission of connected car content. During the first quarter of 2017, the Company's Advanced Safety and User Experience segment made a $15 million investment in Otonomo Technologies Ltd., the developer of a connected car data marketplace. As further described in Note 20. Acquisitions and Divestitures, these investments are accounted for under the cost method. Divestitures Powertrain Systems Spin-Off —As described above, on December 4, 2017, the Company completed the spin-off of its former Powertrain Systems segment into a new publicly traded company, Delphi Technologies PLC. In connection with the Separation, the Company received a dividend of approximately $1,148 million from Delphi Technologies in connection with the Separation. The Company intends to use the proceeds received from the dividend to fund growth initiatives, including increased investment in advanced technologies and engineering. The requirements for presenting Delphi Technologies as a discontinued operation were met when the Separation was completed. Accordingly, the accompanying consolidated financial 60 Table of Contents statements reflect this business as a discontinued operation for all periods presented. Refer to Note 25. Discontinued Operations to the audited consolidated financial statements contained herein for further disclosure related to the Company's discontinued operations. Mechatronics —On December 30, 2016, Aptiv completed the sale of its Mechatronics business, which was previously reported within the Company's Advanced Safety and User Experience segment, for net cash proceeds of approximately $197 million . The net sales of this business in 2016 prior to divestiture were approximately $290 million for the year ended December, 31 2016. Aptiv recognized a pre-tax gain on the divestiture of $141 million within cost of sales in the fourth quarter of 2016. Thermal Systems —On June 30, 2015 the Company closed the sale of its wholly owned Thermal Systems business to MAHLE GmbH ("MAHLE"). The Company received net cash proceeds of approximately $660 million and recognized an after-tax gain on the divestiture of $271 million in 2015. Post-closing adjustments of $3 million , primarily related to the settlement of contingent liabilities, were recorded as a reduction to the gain on the divestiture during the year ended December 31, 2016. Proceeds received from the sale were used to fund growth initiatives, including acquisitions, as well as share repurchases. On September 24, 2015, the Company closed the sale of its 50 percent interest in its Korea Delphi Automotive Systems Corporation ("KDAC") joint venture, which was accounted for under the equity method and was principally reported as part of the Thermal Systems segment, to the joint venture partner. The Company received cash proceeds of $70 million and recognized a gain on the divestiture of $47 million, net of tax expense, within income from income from discontinued operations during the three months ended September 30, 2015. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded a net loss of $41 million on the KDAC divestiture within income from discontinued operations, which includes the $88 million impairment loss recorded in the first quarter of 2015. On March 31, 2016, Aptiv closed the sale of its 50 percent interest in its Shanghai Delphi Automotive Air Conditioning ("SDAAC") joint venture to one of the Company's joint venture partners, Shanghai Aerospace Automobile Electromechanical Co., Ltd ("SAAE"). The Company received cash proceeds of $62 million , net of tax, transaction costs and $29 million of cash divested, and recognized an after-tax gain on the divestiture of $104 million within income from discontinued operations during the year ended December 31, 2016. The financial results of SDAAC, which were consolidated by Aptiv, were historically reported as part of the Thermal Systems segment. Accordingly, the Thermal Systems business has been classified as discontinued operations. Refer to Note 25. Discontinued Operations to the audited consolidated financial statements contained herein for further disclosure related to the Company's discontinued operations. The disposal of the Thermal Systems business did not have a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources, and we have not had significant continuing involvement with the divested Thermal Systems business following the closing of the transactions. Reception Systems —On July 31, 2015, Aptiv completed the sale of its Reception Systems business, which was previously reported within the Advanced Safety and User Experience segment, and received net cash proceeds of approximately $25 million . The net sales of this business were approximately $55 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015. Aptiv recognized a pre-tax gain on the divestiture of $39 million within cost of sales in the third quarter of 2015. Argentina Businesses —On April 21, 2015, Aptiv completed the exit of its Electrical Wiring business located in Argentina, which was previously reported within the Signal and Power Solutions segment. Aptiv recognized a loss on the divestiture of this business of $14 million within cost of sales in the second quarter of 2015, which included a cash payment by Aptiv to the buyer of $7 million . On December 10, 2015, Aptiv completed the exit of its Electronics business located in Argentina, which was previously reported within the Advanced Safety and User Experience segment. The net sales of this business in 2015 prior to the divestiture were approximately $34 million . Aptiv recognized a loss on the divestiture of this business of $33 million within cost of sales in the fourth quarter of 2015, which included a cash payment by Aptiv to the buyer of $7 million . Credit Agreement Aptiv PLC and its wholly-owned subsidiary Delphi Corporation entered into a credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement") with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent (the "Administrative Agent"), under which it maintains senior secured credit facilities currently consisting of a term loan (the “Tranche A Term Loan”) and a revolving credit facility of $2.0 billion (the “Revolving Credit Facility”). The Credit Agreement was entered into in March 2011 and has been subsequently amended and restated on several occasions, most recently on August 17, 2016. The 2016 amendment extended the maturity of the Revolving Credit Facility and the Tranche A Term Loan from 2018 to 2021, increased the capacity of the Revolving Credit Facility from $1.5 billion to $2.0 billion and permitted Aptiv PLC to act as a borrower on the Revolving Credit Facility. A loss on debt extinguishment of $3 million was recorded within other income (expense), net in the consolidated statement of operations during the year ended December 31, 2016 in conjunction with the 2016 amendment. 61 Table of Contents The Tranche A Term Loan and the Revolving Credit Facility mature on August 17, 2021. Aptiv is obligated to make quarterly principal payments, beginning December 31, 2017, throughout the term of the Tranche A Term Loan according to the amortization schedule in the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement also contains an accordion feature that permits Aptiv to increase, from time to time, the aggregate borrowing capacity under the Credit Agreement by up to an additional $1 billion (or a greater amount based upon a formula set forth in the Credit Agreement) upon Aptiv's request, the agreement of the lenders participating in the increase, and the approval of the Administrative Agent and existing lenders. As of December 31, 2017 , there were no amounts drawn on the Revolving Credit Facility and approximately $7 million in letters of credit issued under the Credit Agreement. Letters of credit issued under the Credit Agreement reduce availability under the Revolving Credit Facility. The maximum amount drawn under the Revolving Credit Facility during the year ended December 31, 2017 to manage intra-month working capital requirements was $280 million. Loans under the Credit Agreement bear interest, at Aptiv's option, at either (a) the Administrative Agent’s Alternate Base Rate (“ABR” as defined in the Credit Agreement) or (b) the London Interbank Offered Rate (the “Adjusted LIBO Rate” as defined in the Credit Agreement) (“LIBOR”) plus in either case a percentage per annum as set forth in the table below (the “Applicable Rate”). The Applicable Rates under the Credit Agreement on the specified dates are set forth below: December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 LIBOR plus ABR plus LIBOR plus ABR plus Revolving Credit Facility 1.10 % 0.10 % 1.10 % 0.10 % Tranche A Term Loan 1.25 % 0.25 % 1.25 % 0.25 % The Applicable Rate under the Credit Agreement may increase or decrease from time to time based on changes in the Company's credit ratings. Accordingly, the interest rate will fluctuate during the term of the Credit Agreement based on changes in the ABR, LIBOR or future changes in the Company's corporate credit ratings. The Credit Agreement also requires that Aptiv pay certain facility fees on the Revolving Credit Facility and certain letter of credit issuance and fronting fees. The interest rate period with respect to LIBOR interest rate options can be set at one-, two-, three-, or six-months as selected by Aptiv in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement (or other period as may be agreed by the applicable lenders). Aptiv may elect to change the selected interest rate option in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement. As of December 31, 2017 , Aptiv selected the one-month LIBOR interest rate option on the Tranche A Term Loan, and the rate effective as of December 31, 2017 , as detailed in the table below, was based on the Company's current credit rating and the Applicable Rate for the Credit Agreement: Borrowings as of December 31, 2017 Rates effective as of Applicable Rate (in millions) December 31, 2017 Tranche A Term Loan LIBOR plus 1.25% $ 398 2.75 % Borrowings under the Credit Agreement are prepayable at Aptiv's option without premium or penalty. The Credit Agreement contains certain covenants that limit, among other things, the Company’s (and the Company’s subsidiaries’) ability to incur certain additional indebtedness or liens or to dispose of substantially all of its assets. In addition, the Credit Agreement requires that the Company maintain a consolidated leverage ratio (the ratio of Consolidated Total Indebtedness to Consolidated EBITDA, each as defined in the Credit Agreement) of less than 3.50 to 1.0 . The Credit Agreement also contains events of default customary for financings of this type. The Company was in compliance with the Credit Agreement covenants as of December 31, 2017 . As of December 31, 2017 , all obligations under the Credit Agreement were borrowed by Delphi Corporation and jointly and severally guaranteed by its direct and indirect parent companies, subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Credit Agreement. Refer to Note 22. Supplemental Guarantor and Non-Guarantor Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements for additional information. Senior Unsecured Notes On May 17, 2011, Delphi Corporation issued $500 million of 5.875% senior unsecured notes due 2019 (the "5.875% Senior Notes") and $500 million of 6.125% senior unsecured notes due 2021 (the “6.125% Senior Notes”) (collectively, the "2011 Senior Notes") in a transaction exempt from registration under Rule 144A and Regulation S of the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”). The net proceeds of approximately $1 billion as well as cash on hand were used to pay down amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement. In May 2012, Delphi Corporation completed a registered exchange offer for all of the 2011 Senior Notes. No proceeds were received by Delphi Corporation as a result of the exchange. In March 2014, Aptiv 62 Table of Contents redeemed for cash the entire $500 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of the 5.875% Senior Notes, financed by a portion of the proceeds received from the issuance of the 2014 Senior Notes, as defined below. In March 2015, Aptiv redeemed for cash the entire $500 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of the 6.125% Senior Notes, financed by a portion of the proceeds from the issuance of the 2015 Euro-denominated Senior Notes, as defined below. As a result of the redemption of the 2011 Senior Notes, Aptiv recognized losses on debt extinguishment of approximately $52 million during the year ended December 31, 2015 and $33 million during the year ended December 31, 2014. On February 14, 2013, Delphi Corporation issued $800 million of 5.00% senior unsecured notes due 2023 (the “2013 Senior Notes”) in a transaction registered under Rule 144A and Regulation S of the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”). The proceeds were primarily utilized to prepay our term loan indebtedness under the Credit Agreement. Aptiv paid approximately $12 million of issuance costs in connection with the 2013 Senior Notes. Interest was payable semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 of each year to holders of record at the close of business on February 1 or August 1 immediately preceding the interest payment date. In September 2016, Aptiv redeemed for cash the entire $800 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of the 2013 Senior Notes, primarily financed by the proceeds from the issuance of the 2016 Euro-denominated Senior Notes and the 2016 Senior Notes, each as defined below. As a result of the redemption of the 2013 Senior Notes, Aptiv recognized a loss on debt extinguishment of approximately $70 million during the year ended December 31, 2016 within other income (expense), net in the consolidated statement of operations. On March 3, 2014, Delphi Corporation issued $700 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.15% senior unsecured notes due 2024 (the "2014 Senior Notes") in a transaction registered under the Securities Act. The 2014 Senior Notes were priced at 99.649% of par, resulting in a yield to maturity of 4.193%. The proceeds were primarily utilized to redeem $500 million of 5.875% senior unsecured notes due 2019 and to repay a portion of the Tranche A Term Loan. Aptiv paid approximately $6 million of issuance costs in connection with the 2014 Senior Notes. Interest is payable semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year to holders of record at the close of business on March 1 or September 1 immediately preceding the interest payment date. On March 10, 2015, Aptiv PLC issued €700 million in aggregate principal amount of 1.50% Euro-denominated senior unsecured notes due 2025 (the “2015 Euro-denominated Senior Notes”) in a transaction registered under the Securities Act. The 2015 Euro-denominated Senior Notes were priced at 99.54% of par, resulting in a yield to maturity of 1.55% . The proceeds were primarily utilized to redeem the 6.125% Senior Notes, and to fund growth initiatives, such as acquisitions, and share repurchases. Aptiv incurred approximately $5 million of issuance costs in connection with the 2015 Euro-denominated Senior Notes. Interest is payable annually on March 10. The Company has designated the 2015 Euro-denominated Senior Notes as a net investment hedge of the foreign currency exposure of its investments in certain Euro-denominated wholly owned subsidiaries. Refer to Note 17. Derivatives and Hedging Activities to the audited consolidated financial statements contained herein for further information. On November 19, 2015, Aptiv PLC issued $1.3 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes in a transaction registered under the Securities Act, comprised of $650 million of 3.15% senior unsecured notes due 2020 (the "3.15% Senior Notes") and $650 million of 4.25% senior unsecured notes due 2026 (the "4.25% Senior Notes") (collectively, the “2015 Senior Notes”). The 3.15% Senior Notes were priced at 99.784% of par, resulting in a yield to maturity of 3.197% , and the 4.25% Senior Notes were priced at 99.942% of par, resulting in a yield to maturity of 4.256% . The proceeds were primarily utilized to fund a portion of the cash consideration for the acquisition of HellermannTyton, as further described in Note. 20. Acquisitions and Divestitures to the audited consolidated financial statements contained herein, and for general corporate purposes, including the payment of fees and expenses associated with the HellermannTyton acquisition and the related financing transaction. Aptiv incurred approximately $8 million of issuance costs in connection with the 2015 Senior Notes. Interest on the 3.15% Senior Notes is payable semi-annually on May 19 and November 19 of each year to holders of record at the close of business on May 4 or November 4 immediately preceding the interest payment date. Interest on the 4.25% Senior Notes is payable semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 of each year to holders of record at the close of business on January 1 or July 1 immediately preceding the interest payment date. On September 15, 2016, Aptiv PLC issued €500 million in aggregate principal amount of 1.60% Euro-denominated senior unsecured notes due 2028 (the “2016 Euro-denominated Senior Notes”) in a transaction registered under the Securities Act. The 2016 Euro-denominated Senior Notes were priced at 99.881% of par, resulting in a yield to maturity of 1.611% . The proceeds, together with proceeds from the 2016 Senior Notes described below, were utilized to redeem the 2013 Senior Notes. Aptiv incurred approximately $4 million of issuance costs in connection with the 2016 Euro-denominated Senior Notes. Interest is payable annually on September 15. The Company has designated the 2016 Euro-denominated Senior Notes as a net investment hedge of the foreign currency exposure of its investments in certain Euro-denominated wholly-owned subsidiaries. Refer to Note. 17. Derivatives and Hedging Activities for further information. On September 20, 2016, Aptiv PLC issued $300 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.40% senior unsecured notes due 2046 (the “2016 Senior Notes”) in a transaction registered under the Securities Act. The 2016 Senior Notes were priced at 99.454% of par, resulting in a yield to maturity of 4.433% . The proceeds, together with proceeds from the 2016 Euro- 63 Table of Contents denominated Senior Notes, were utilized to redeem the 2013 Senior Notes. Aptiv incurred approximately $3 million of issuance costs in connection with the 2016 Senior Notes. Interest is payable semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 of each year to holders of record at the close of business on March 15 or September 15 immediately preceding the interest payment date. Although the specific terms of each indenture governing each series of senior notes vary, the indentures contain certain restrictive covenants, including with respect to Aptiv's (and Aptiv's subsidiaries) ability to incur liens, enter into sale and leaseback transactions and merge with or into other entities. As of December 31, 2017 , the Company was in compliance with the provisions of all series of the outstanding senior notes. The 2013 Senior Notes and the 2014 Senior Notes were issued by Delphi Corporation. The 2014 Senior Notes are, and prior to their redemption, the 2013 Senior Notes were, fully and unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, by Aptiv PLC and by certain of Aptiv PLC's direct and indirect subsidiaries which are directly or indirectly 100% owned by Aptiv PLC, subject to customary release provisions (other than in the case of Aptiv PLC). The 2015 Euro-denominated Senior Notes, 2015 Senior Notes, 2016 Euro-denominated Senior Notes and 2016 Senior Notes issued by Aptiv PLC are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, by certain of Aptiv PLC's direct and indirect subsidiaries (including Delphi Corporation), which are directly or indirectly 100% owned by Aptiv PLC, subject to customary release provisions. Refer to Note 22. Supplemental Guarantor and Non-Guarantor Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements for additional information. Other Financing Receivable factoring —Aptiv maintains a €300 million European accounts receivable factoring facility that is available on a committed basis. This facility is accounted for as short-term debt and borrowings are subject to the availability of eligible accounts receivable. Collateral is not required related to these trade accounts receivable. This program renews on a non-committed, indefinite basis unless terminated by either party. Borrowings bear interest at Euro Interbank Offered Rate ("EURIBOR") plus 0.42% for borrowings denominated in Euros. Prior to December 2017, the availability under the European factoring facility was €400 million . No amounts were outstanding on the European accounts receivable factoring facility as of December 31, 2017 or December 31, 2016 . The maximum amount drawn under the European facility during the year ended December 31, 2017 to manage working capital requirements was $298 million . In addition, in 2016 one of the Company’s European subsidiaries factored, without recourse, receivables related to certain foreign research tax credits to a financial institution. These transactions were accounted for as true sales of the receivables, and the Company therefore derecognized approximately $4 million from other long-term assets in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2016 , as a result of these transactions. Capital leases and other —As of December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 , approximately $42 million and approximately $34 million , respectively, of other debt issued by certain non-U.S. subsidiaries and capital lease obligations were outstanding. Government programs —Aptiv commonly seeks manufacturing development and financial assistance incentive programs that may be awarded by government entities. Aptiv has numerous technology development programs that are competitively awarded from agencies of the U.S. Federal Government, primarily from the U.S. Department of Energy (“DOE”). We received approximately $1 million from Federal agencies in the year ended December 31, 2017 for work performed. These programs supplement our internal research and development funds and directly support our product focus of Safe, Green and Connected. We continue to pursue many technology development programs by bidding on competitively procured programs from DOE, as well as the U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”). Some of these programs were bid with us being the lead or “Prime Contractor”, and some were bid with us as a “Subrecipient” to the Prime Contractor. For the year ended December 31, 2017 , Aptiv was awarded one new program with approximately $1 million of U.S. Government funds that will be received over the next 48 months. Contractual Commitments The following table summarizes our expected cash outflows resulting from financial contracts and commitments as of December 31, 2017 , with amounts denominated in foreign currencies translated using foreign currency rates as of December 31, 2017 . We have not included information on our recurring purchases of materials for use in our manufacturing operations. These amounts are generally consistent from year to year, closely reflect our levels of production, and are not long-term in nature. The amounts below exclude the gross liability for uncertain tax positions of $224 million as of December 31, 2017 . We do not expect a significant payment related to these obligations to be made within the next twelve months. We are not able to provide a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of future payments relating to the non-current portion of obligations associated with uncertain tax positions. For more information, refer to Note 14. Income Taxes to the audited consolidated financial statements included herein. 64 Table of Contents Payments due by Period Total 2018 2019 & 2020 2021 & 2022 Thereafter (in millions) Debt and capital lease obligations (excluding interest) $ 4,180 $ 17 $ 715 $ 336 $ 3,112 Estimated interest costs related to debt and capital lease obligations 1,102 129 256 196 521 Operating lease obligations 447 97 138 101 111 Contractual commitments for capital expenditures 143 143 — — — Other contractual purchase commitments, including information technology 224 72 111 41 — Total $ 6,096 $ 458 $ 1,220 $ 674 $ 3,744 In addition to the obligations discussed above, certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit pension plans, some of which are funded. We have minimum funding requirements with respect to certain of our pension obligations and may periodically elect to make discretionary contributions to the plans in support of risk management initiatives. We will also have payments due with respect to our other postretirement benefit obligations. We do not fund our other postretirement benefit obligations and payments are made as costs are incurred by covered retirees. Refer to Note 12. Pension Benefits to the audited consolidated financial statements included herein for additional detail regarding our expected contributions to our pension plans and expected distributions to participants in future periods. Capital Expenditures Supplier selection in the auto industry is generally finalized several years prior to the start of production of the vehicle. Therefore, current capital expenditures are based on customer commitments entered into previously, generally several years ago when the customer contract was awarded. As of December 31, 2017 , we had approximately $143 million in outstanding cancellable and non-cancellable capital commitments. Capital expenditures by operating segment and geographic region for the periods presented were: Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 2015 (in millions) Signal and Power Solutions $ 477 $ 458 $ 353 Advanced Safety and User Experience 196 131 102 Eliminations and Other (1) 25 68 48 Total capital expenditures $ 698 $ 657 $ 503 North America $ 301 $ 237 $ 186 Europe, Middle East & Africa 234 253 149 Asia Pacific 151 163 159 South America 12 4 9 Total capital expenditures $ 698 $ 657 $ 503 (1) Eliminations and Other includes capital expenditures amounts attributable to corporate administrative and support functions, including corporate headquarters and certain technical centers. Cash Flows Intra-month cash flow cycles vary by region, but in general we are users of cash through the first half of a typical month and we generate cash during the latter half of a typical month. Due to this cycle of cash flows, we may utilize short-term financing, including our Revolving Credit Facility and European accounts receivable factoring facility, to manage our intra-month working capital needs. Our cash balance typically peaks at month end. We utilize a combination of strategies, including dividends, cash pooling arrangements, intercompany loan structures and other distributions and advances to provide the funds necessary to meet our global liquidity needs. We utilize a global cash pooling arrangement to consolidate and manage our global cash balances, which enables us to efficiently move cash into and out of a number of the countries in which we operate. Operating activities —Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations totaled $1,106 million and $1,494 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Cash flow from operating activities from 65 Table of Contents continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2017 consisted primarily of net earnings from continuing operations of $1,063 million , increased by $597 million for non-cash charges for depreciation and amortization, pension and other postretirement benefit expenses, partially offset by $576 million related to changes in operating assets and liabilities, including $310 million paid to settle the Unsecured Creditors litigation, net of restructuring and pension contributions. Cash flow from operating activities from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2016 consisted primarily of net earnings from continuing operations of $868 million , increased by $594 million for non-cash charges for depreciation and amortization, pension and other postretirement benefit expenses and extinguishment of debt, and by $247 million related to changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of restructuring and pension contributions. Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations totaled $1,140 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 , which consisted of net earnings from continuing operations of $852 million , increased by $438 million for non-cash charges for depreciation and amortization, pension and other postretirement benefit expenses and extinguishment of debt, partially offset by $226 million related to changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of restructuring and pension contributions. Investing activities —Net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations totaled $1,093 million and $412 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. The increase in usage is primarily attributable to the $374 million for business acquisitions and technology investments, as compared to $18 million paid for acquisitions and investments during the year ended December 31, 2016 . Additionally, capital expenditures increased $41 million during the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 . During 2016 , net proceeds of $197 million were received from the sale of the Mechatronics business and $48 million received from the sale of discontinued operations. Net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations totaled $1,429 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 , which was primarily attributable to $1,654 million that was paid for business acquisitions in 2015, principally HellermannTyton. During 2015, net proceeds of $713 million were received from the sales of our wholly owned Thermal Systems business and KDAC joint venture. Financing activities —Net cash provided by financing activities totaled $456 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 and net cash used in financing activities totaled $1,081 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Cash flows provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2017 primarily included the dividend received from Delphi Technologies in connection with the spin-off of $1,148 million , as well as other cash received from Delphi Technologies of $180 million , which was partially offset by $383 million paid to repurchase ordinary shares, $310 million of dividend payments and $24 million of contingent consideration payments. Cash flows used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2016 primarily included the net proceeds of approximately $852 million received from the issuance of the 2016 Euro-denominated Senior Notes and the 2016 Senior Notes, which were primarily utilized to redeem the $800 million 2013 Senior Notes, as well as $634 million paid to repurchase ordinary shares and $317 million of dividend payments. Net cash used in financing activities totaled $284 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 . Net proceeds of $1.3 billion were received from the issuance of the 2015 Senior Notes in order to fund a portion of the acquisition of HellermannTyton, and net proceeds of $753 million were received from the issuance of the 2015 Euro-denominated Senior Notes, which were partially utilized to redeem the 6.125% Senior Notes. Additionally, $1,159 million was paid to repurchase ordinary shares and $286 million of dividend payments were made in 2015. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Other Matters We do not engage in any off-balance sheet financial arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Pension Benefits Certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit pension plans, which generally provide benefits based on negotiated amounts for each year of service. Our primary non-U.S. plans are located in France, Germany, Mexico, Portugal and the United Kingdom ("U.K."). The U.K. and certain Mexican plans are funded. In addition, we have defined benefit plans in South Korea, Turkey and Italy for which amounts are payable to employees immediately upon separation. The obligations for these plans are recorded over the requisite service period. We anticipate making pension contributions and benefit payments of approximately $52 million for non-U.S. plans in 2018 . Aptiv sponsors a Supplemental Executive Retirement Program (“SERP”) for those employees who were U.S. executives of DPHH prior to September 30, 2008 and were still U.S. executives of the Company on October 7, 2009, the effective date of the program. This program is unfunded. Executives receive benefits over 5 years after an involuntary or voluntary separation from Aptiv. The SERP is closed to new members and was frozen effective September 30, 2008. There are no required 66 Table of Contents contributions for the SERP in 2018, although we anticipate making benefit payments of approximately $10 million for the SERP in 2018. Refer to Note 12. Pension Benefits to the audited consolidated financial statements included herein for further information on (1) historical benefit costs of the pension plans, (2) the principal assumptions used to determine the pension benefit expense and the actuarial value of the projected benefit obligation for the U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans, (3) a sensitivity analysis of potential changes to pension obligations and expense that would result from changes in key assumptions and (4) funding obligations. Environmental Matters We are subject to the requirements of U.S. federal, state and local, and non-U.S., environmental and safety and health laws and regulations. These include laws regulating air emissions, water discharge, hazardous materials and waste management. We have an environmental management structure designed to facilitate and support our compliance with these requirements globally. Although it is our intent to comply with all such requirements and regulations, we cannot provide assurance that we are at all times in compliance. Environmental requirements are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. Accordingly, we cannot assure that environmental requirements will not change or become more stringent over time or that our eventual environmental remediation costs and liabilities will not be material. Certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances. In addition to clean-up actions brought by U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. agencies, plaintiffs could raise personal injury or other private claims due to the presence of hazardous substances on or from a property. At this time, we are involved in various stages of investigation and cleanup related to environmental remediation matters at certain of our present and former facilities. In addition, there may be soil or groundwater contamination at several of our properties resulting from historical, ongoing or nearby activities. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016 , the undiscounted reserve for environmental investigation and remediation was approximately $4 million (which was recorded in other long-term liabilities) and $5 million (of which $1 million was recorded in accrued liabilities and $4 million was recorded in other long-term liabilities). Additionally, as of December 31, 2016 , approximately $1 million of undiscounted reserve for environmental investigation and remediation attributable to discontinued operations was included within liabilities of discontinued operations. Aptiv cannot ensure that environmental requirements will not change or become more stringent over time or that its eventual environmental remediation costs and liabilities will not exceed the amount of its current reserves. In the event that such liabilities were to significantly exceed the amounts recorded, Aptiv’s results of operations could be materially affected. Legal Proceedings For a description of our legal proceedings, see