Management’s Discussion and Analysis reflects the results of continuing operations, unless otherwise noted. Executive Overview Our Business We are a leading global technology and mobility company primarily serving the automotive sector. We design and manufacture vehicle components and provide electrical, electronic and active safety technology solutions to the global automotive market, creating the software and hardware foundation for vehicle features and functionality. We enable and deliver end-to-end smart mobility solutions, active safety and autonomous driving technologies and provide enhanced user experience and connected services. Our Advanced Safety and User Experience segment is focused on providing the necessary software and advanced computing platforms, and our Signal and Power Solutions segment is focused on providing the requisite networking architecture required to support the integrated systems in today’s complex vehicles. Together, our businesses develop the ‘brain’ and the ‘nervous system’ of increasingly complex vehicles, providing integration of the vehicle into its operating environment. 30 Table of Contents We are one of the largest vehicle component manufacturers, and our customers include all 25 of the largest automotive original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) in the world. Business Strategy We believe the Company is well-positioned for growth from increasing global vehicle production volumes, increased demand for our Safe, Green and Connected products which are being added to vehicle content, and new business wins with existing and new customers. We are focused on accelerating the commercialization of active safety, autonomous driving, enhanced user experiences and connected services, providing the software, advanced computing platforms and networking architecture required to do so. We have successfully created a competitive cost structure while investing in research and development to grow our product offerings, which are aligned with the high-growth industry mega-trends, and re-aligned our manufacturing footprint into an efficient, low-cost regional service model, focused on increasing our profit margins. Our achievements in 2018 included the following: • Accelerating our end-market diversification strategy through the acquisition of Winchester Interconnect, a leading provider of advanced interconnect solutions for harsh environment applications; • Further strengthening our leadership position in Asia Pacific and expanding our range of specialized connectors and cable management solutions through the acquisition of KUM; • Extending leadership position in perception systems by complementing our portfolio with enhanced interior sensing capabilities through investment in Affectiva, Inc., a leader in human perception artificial intelligence technology; • Announcing a partnership with Lyft, Inc. by launching a fleet of autonomous vehicles in Las Vegas which operate on Aptiv’s fully-integrated autonomous driving platform and are available to the public on the Lyft network; • Generating gross business bookings of $22 billion, based upon expected volumes and pricing; • Generating $1.6 billion of cash from continuing operations and net income of $1.1 billion ; and • Maximizing our operational flexibility and profitability at all points in the normal automotive business cycle, by having approximately 96% of our hourly workforce based in best cost countries and approximately 13% of our hourly workforce composed of temporary employees. Our strategy is to build on these accomplishments and continue to develop and manufacture innovative market-relevant products for a diverse base of customers around the globe and leverage our lean and flexible cost structure to achieve strong and disciplined earnings growth and returns on invested capital. Through our culture of innovation and world class engineering capabilities we intend to employ our rigorous, forward-looking product development process to deliver new technologies that provide solutions to our customers. We are committed to creating value for our shareholders. We repurchased $499 million of ordinary shares in 2018 , and in January 2019 announced a new share repurchase program of up to $2.0 billion of ordinary shares. We also continued to return cash to our shareholders, paying cash dividends totaling $233 million in 2018 . Our key strategic priorities include: Commercializing the high-tech evolution of the automotive industry . The automotive industry is increasingly evolving towards the implementation of software-dependent components and solutions. In particular, the industry is focused on the development of advanced driver assistance technologies, with the goal of developing and introducing a commercially-viable, fully automated driving experience. We expect automated driving technologies will provide strong societal benefit as well as the opportunity for long-term growth for our product offerings in this space. We are continuing to invest in the automated driving space, and have continued to develop market-leading automated driving platform solutions such as automated driving software, key active safety sensing technologies and our Multi-Domain Controller, which fuses information from sensing systems as well as mapping and navigation data to make driving decisions. We believe we are well-aligned with industry technology trends that will result in sustainable future growth in this space, and have partnered with leaders in their respective fields to advance the pace of development and commercialization of these emerging technologies. We have entered into a collaborative arrangement with Mobileye N.V. to develop the Centralized Sensing Localization and Planning (“CSLP”) system, a complete turn-key fully autonomous driving platform for our OEM customers and mobility partners, with the goal of being application ready in 2019 and production ready in the 2021 to 2022 time frame. We also entered into a collaborative arrangement with Intel Corporation and the BMW Group to develop and deploy automated driving technology. Additionally, in 2017 we acquired nuTonomy, Inc. in order to further accelerate the commercialization of automated driving solutions. The acquisition of nuTonomy is the latest in a series of investments we have made to expand our position in the new mobility space, including the prior period acquisitions of automated driving software developer Ottomatika and data service companies Control-Tec and Movimento. There has also been increasing societal demand for mobility on demand (“MoD”) services, such as car and ride-sharing, and an increasing number of traditional automotive companies have made investments in the MoD space. We believe the increasing societal demand for MoD services will accelerate the development of autonomous driving technologies, strongly 31 Table of Contents benefiting the MoD space. In 2018, we announced a partnership with Lyft, Inc. (“Lyft”) by launching a fleet of autonomous vehicles in Las Vegas which operate on Aptiv’s fully-integrated autonomous driving platform and are available to the public on the Lyft network. This partnership leverages our connected services capabilities and Lyft’s ride-hailing experience to provide valuable insights on self-driving fleet operations and management. In addition, we have entered into agreements with the Singapore Land Transport Authority and with the city of Boston to develop fully-autonomous vehicles and associated infrastructure as part of automated MoD pilots. As a result of our substantial investments and strategic partnerships, we believe we are well-aligned with industry technology trends that will result in sustainable future growth in these evolving areas. We are focused on enabling and delivering end-to-end smart mobility solutions, accelerating the commercialization of active safety and autonomous driving technologies and providing enhanced user experience and connected services. Our Advanced Safety and User Experience segment is focused on providing the necessary software and advanced computing platforms, and our Signal and Power Solutions segment is focused on providing the requisite networking architecture required to support the integrated systems in today’s complex vehicles. Together, our businesses develop the ‘brain’ and the ‘nervous system’ of increasingly complex vehicles, providing integration of the vehicle into its operating environment. However, there are many risks associated with these evolving areas, including the high development costs of active safety and autonomous driving technologies, the uncertain timing of customer and consumer adoption of these technologies, increased competition from entrants outside the traditional automotive industry and new and emerging regulations, such as the recently released federal guidance for automated driving systems published by the U.S. Department of Transportation. While we believe we are well-positioned in these markets, the high development cost of active safety and autonomous driving technologies may result in a higher risk of exposure to the success of new or disruptive technologies different than those being developed by us. Leveraging our engineering and technological capabilities . We seek to leverage our strong product portfolio tied to the industry’s key mega-trends with our global footprint to increase our revenues, as well as committing to substantial annual investment in research and development to maintain and enhance our leadership in new mobility solutions across each of our product lines. Targeting the right business with the right customers . We intend to be strategic in our pursuit of new business and customers in order to achieve disciplined, above-market growth. We conduct in-depth analysis of market share and product trends by region in order to prioritize research, development and engineering spend for the customers that we believe will be successful. Collaboration with customers in our 15 major technical centers around the world helps us develop innovative product solutions designed to meet their needs. As more OEMs design vehicles for global platforms, where the same vehicle architecture is shared among different regions, we are well suited to provide global design and engineering support while manufacturing these products for a specific regional market. Capitalizing on our scale, global footprint and established position in emerging markets . We intend to generate sustained growth by capitalizing on the breadth and scale of our operating capabilities. Our global footprint provides us important proximity to our customers’ manufacturing facilities and allows us to serve them in every region in which they operate. We anticipate that we will continue to build upon our extensive geographic reach to capitalize on growing automotive markets, particularly in China. In addition, our presence in best cost countries positions us to realize incremental margin improvements as the global balance of automotive production shifts towards emerging markets. Leveraging our lean and flexible cost structure to deliver profitability and cash flow . We recognize the importance of maintaining a lean and flexible cost structure in order to deliver stable earnings and cash flow in a cyclical industry. Our focus is on maximizing and optimizing manufacturing output to meet increasing production requirements with minimal additions to our fixed-cost base. Additionally, we are continuing to use a meaningful amount of temporary workers to ensure we have the appropriate operational flexibility to scale our operations so that we can maintain our profitability as industry production levels increase or contract. Advancing and maintaining an efficient capital structure. We actively manage our capital structure in order to maintain an investment grade credit rating and healthy capital ratios to support our business and maximize shareholder value. We will continue to make adjustments to our capital structure in light of changes in economic conditions or as opportunities arise to provide us with additional financial flexibility to invest in our business and execute our strategic objectives going forward. Pursuing selected acquisitions and strategic investments . During 2018, we continued to complete selected acquisitions and strategic investments in order to continue to enhance our product offerings and competitive position in growing market segments. We intend to continue to pursue selected transactions that leverage our technology capabilities and enhance and expand our commercialization of new mobility solutions, product offerings, customer base, geographic penetration and scale to complement our current businesses. Trends, Uncertainties and Opportunities Economic conditions . Our business is directly related to automotive sales and automotive vehicle production by our customers. Automotive sales depend on a number of factors, including global and regional economic conditions. Although 32 Table of Contents global automotive vehicle production decreased 1% from 2017 to 2018 , the levels of automotive vehicle production were uneven from a regional perspective. Compared to 2017, vehicle production in 2018 in North America remained flat as compared to the reduced volumes experienced in the region in 2017, while vehicle production decreased by 1% in Europe and 4% in China. Vehicle production in South America, our smallest region, increased 4% compared to 2017. Refer to Note 23. Segment Reporting of the notes to the consolidated financial statements, included in