Management’s Discussion and Analysis, we present certain financial measures that facilitate management's review of the operational performance of the Company and as a basis for strategic planning; however, such financial measures are not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S.) (U.S. GAAP). These financial measures are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" and are intended to supplement, and should not be considered as superior to, financial measures presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We believe that non-GAAP financial measures provide information useful to investors in understanding the Company's underlying operational performance and trends and may facilitate comparisons with the performance of other companies in the medical technologies industry. As presented in the GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations section below, our non-GAAP financial measures exclude the impact of amortization of intangible assets and certain charges or benefits that contribute to or reduce earnings and that may affect financial trends and include certain charges or benefits that result from transactions or events that we believe may or may not recur with similar materiality or impact to our operations in future periods (Non-GAAP Adjustments). In the event there is a Non-GAAP Adjustment recognized in our operating results, the tax cost or benefit attributable to that item is separately calculated and reported. Because the effective rate can be significantly impacted by the Non-GAAP Adjustments that take place during the period, we often refer to our tax rate using both the effective rate and the non-GAAP nominal tax rate (Non-GAAP Nominal Tax Rate). The Non-GAAP Nominal Tax Rate is calculated as the income tax provision, adjusted for the impact of Non-GAAP Adjustments, as a percentage of income before income taxes, excluding Non-GAAP Adjustments. Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure calculated by subtracting property, plant, and equipment additions from operating cash flows. Refer to the “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations," "Income Taxes," and "Free Cash Flow" sections for reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 29 Table of C ontents EXECUTIVE LEVEL OVERVIEW The following is a summary of revenue, diluted earnings per share, and cash flow for fiscal years 2023 and 2022: GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations The tables below present reconciliations of our Non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP for fiscal years 2023 and 2022. Fiscal year ended April 28, 2023 (in millions, except per share data) Income Before Income Taxes Income Tax Provision (Benefit) Net Income Attributable to Medtronic Diluted EPS Effective Tax Rate GAAP $ 5,364 $ 1,580 $ 3,758 $ 2.82 29.5 % Non-GAAP Adjustments: Amortization of intangible assets 1,698 255 1,443 1.08 15.0 Restructuring and associated costs (1) 647 139 507 0.38 21.5 Acquisition-related items (2) 110 21 89 0.07 19.1 Divestiture and separation-related items (3) 235 8 227 0.17 3.4 Certain litigation charges, net (4) (30) (8) (23) (0.02) 26.7 (Gain)/loss on minority investments (5) (33) 2 (29) (0.02) (6.1) Medical device regulations (6) 150 30 120 0.09 20.0 Debt redemption premium and other charges (7) 53 11 42 0.03 20.8 Certain tax adjustments, net (8) — (910) 910 0.68 — Non-GAAP $ 8,194 $ 1,128 $ 7,045 $ 5.29 13.8 % 30 Table of C ontents Fiscal year ended April 29, 2022 (in millions, except per share data) Income Before Income Taxes Income Tax Provision (Benefit) Net Income Attributable to Medtronic Diluted EPS Effective Tax Rate GAAP $ 5,517 $ 456 $ 5,039 $ 3.73 8.3 % Non-GAAP Adjustments: Amortization of intangible assets 1,733 266 1,467 1.09 15.3 Restructuring and associated costs (1) 335 54 281 0.21 16.1 Acquisition-related items (2) (43) 5 (48) (0.04) (11.6) Certain litigation charges 95 17 78 0.06 17.9 (Gain)/loss on minority investments (5) (12) — (9) (0.01) — Medical device regulations (6) 102 16 86 0.06 15.7 MCS impairment / costs (9) 881 220 661 0.49 25.0 Certain tax adjustments, net (10) — 50 (50) (0.04) — Non-GAAP $ 8,609 $ 1,084 $ 7,505 $ 5.55 12.6 % (1) Associated costs include costs incurred as a direct result of the restructuring program, such as salaries for employees supporting the program and consulting expenses. (2) The charges primarily include business combination costs and changes in fair value of contingent consideration. (3) The charges predominantly include non-cash pre-tax impairments, primarily related to goodwill, changes in the carrying value of the disposal group, and other associated costs, as a result of the April 1, 2023 sale of half of the Company's Renal Care Solutions (RCS) business; charges related to the impending separation of the Patient Monitoring and Respiratory Interventions businesses within our Medical Surgical Portfolio in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2023; and charges related to an exit of a business which are primarily comprised of inventory write-downs. (4) Certain litigation includes $35 million income related to the one-time payment received as a result of the Intellectual Property Agreement entered into with Edwards Lifesciences on April 12, 2023. (5) We exclude unrealized and realized gains and losses on our minority investments as we do not believe that these components of income or expense have a direct correlation to our ongoing or future business operations. (6) The charges represent estimated incremental costs of complying with the new European Union medical device regulations for previously registered products and primarily include charges for contractors supporting the project and other direct third-party expenses. We consider these costs to be duplicative of previously incurred costs and /or one-time costs, which are limited to a specific period. (7) The charges relate to the early redemption of approximately $2.3 billion of debt and were recorded within interest expense, net within the consolidated statements of income. (8) The charge primarily relates to a $764 million reserve adjustment that was a direct result of the U.S. Tax Court opinion, issued on August 18, 2022, on the previously disclosed litigation regarding the allocation of income between Medtronic, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiary operating in Puerto Rico. Additional charges relate to the reduction of deferred tax assets due to the disallowance of certain interest deductions and the change in the reporting currency for certain carryover attributes, and the amortization on previously established deferred tax assets from intercompany intellectual property transactions. (9) The charges relate to the Company’s June 2021 decision to stop the distribution and sale of the Medtronic HVAD System within the Mechanical Circulatory Support Operating Unit (MCS). The charges included $515 million of non-cash impairments, primarily related to $409 million of intangible asset impairments, as well as $366 million for commitments and obligations in connection with the decision, including patient support obligations, restructuring, and other associated costs. Medtronic is committed to serving the needs of patients currently implanted with the HVAD System. (10) The net benefit primarily relates to the deferred tax impact associated with a step up in tax basis for Swiss Cantonal purposes and a change in tax rates on deferred taxes associated with intellectual property, which are partially offset by the amortization on previously established deferred tax assets from intercompany intellectual property transactions and a charge related to a change in the Company's permanent reinvestment assertion on certain historical earnings. 31 Table of C ontents Free Cash Flow Free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, is calculated by subtracting additions to property, plant, and equipment from net cash provided by operating activities. Management uses this non-GAAP financial measure, in addition to U.S. GAAP financial measures, to evaluate our operating results. Free cash flow should be considered supplemental to, and not a substitute for, our reported financial results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Reconciliations between net cash provided by operating activities (the most comparable U.S. GAAP measure) and free cash flow are as follows: Fiscal Year (in millions) 2023 2022 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 6,039 $ 7,346 Additions to property, plant, and equipment (1,459) (1,368) Free cash flow $ 4,580 $ 5,978 Refer to the Summary of Cash Flows section for drivers of the change in cash provided by operating activities. 32 Table of C ontents NET SALES Segment and Division The charts below illustrate the percent of net sales by segment for fiscal years 2023 and 2022: The table below includes net sales by segment and division for fiscal years 2023 and 2022: Net Sales by Fiscal Year Percent Change (in millions) 2023 2022 Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure $ 5,835 $ 5,908 (1) % Structural Heart & Aortic 3,363 3,055 10 Coronary & Peripheral Vascular 2,375 2,460 (3) Cardiovascular 11,573 11,423 1 Surgical Innovations 5,663 6,060 (7) Respiratory, Gastrointestinal, & Renal 2,770 3,081 (10) Medical Surgical 8,433 9,141 (8) Cranial & Spinal Technologies 4,451 4,456 — Specialty Therapies 2,815 2,592 9 Neuromodulation 1,693 1,735 (2) Neuroscience 8,959 8,784 2 Diabetes 2,262 2,338 (3) Total $ 31,227 $ 31,686 (1) % 33 Table of C ontents Segment and Market Geography The charts below illustrate the percent of net sales by market geography for fiscal years 2023 and 2022: The table below includes net sales by market geography for each of our segments for fiscal years 2023 and 2022: U.S. (1) Non-U.S. Developed Markets (2) Emerging Markets (3) (in millions) Fiscal Year 2023 Fiscal Year 2022 % Change Fiscal Year 2023 Fiscal Year 2022 % Change Fiscal Year 2023 Fiscal Year 2022 % Change Cardiovascular $ 5,848 $ 5,545 5 % $ 3,564 $ 3,866 (8) % $ 2,161 $ 2,012 7 % Medical Surgical 3,658 3,862 (5) 3,080 3,373 (9) 1,694 1,905 (11) Neuroscience 6,018 5,753 5 1,658 1,801 (8) 1,283 1,229 4 Diabetes 849 974 (13) 1,106 1,085 2 307 279 10 Total $ 16,373 $ 16,135 1 % $ 9,408 $ 10,126 (7) % $ 5,446 $ 5,426 — % (1) U.S. includes the United States and U.S. territories. (2) Non-U.S. developed markets include Japan, Australia, New Zealand, Korea, Canada, and the countries within Western Europe. (3) Emerging markets include the countries of the Middle East, Africa, Latin America, Eastern Europe, and the countries of Asia that are not included in the non-U.S. developed markets, as defined above. The decline in net sales for fiscal year 2023 was primarily driven by unfavorable currency impacts, impact of volume-based procurement tenders and COVID-19 resurgence in China, as well as supply chain challenges in certain businesses, particularly in the first quarter of fiscal year 2023. Currency had an unfavorable impact of $1.2 billion on non-U.S. developed markets and $262 million on emerging markets. The decline in net sales was partially offset by growth in certain product lines and businesses, including Micra, Transcatheter Aortic Valve replacements (TAVR), hemorrhagic and ischemic stroke, and ENT, in addition to the $265 million one-time payment received as a result of the Intellectual Property Agreement entered into with Edwards Lifesciences, as further discussed in the Cardiovascular net sales section below. 34 Table of C ontents Looking ahead, a number of macro-economic and geopolitical factors could negatively impact our business, including without limitation: • Competitive product launches and pricing pressure, geographic macro-economic risks including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, general price inflation, rising interest rates, reimbursement challenges, impacts from changes in the mix of our product offerings, delays in product registration approvals, and replacement cycle challenges; • National and provincial/state tender decisions, including around pricing, for certain products, particularly in China; • The uncertain and uneven impact of COVID-19 on future procedural volumes, supply constraints including certain electronic components and semiconductors, healthcare staffing in certain regions, and resulting impacts on demand for our products and therapies; and • The sanctions and other measures being imposed in response to the Russia-Ukraine conflict are having, and could continue to have impacts on revenue and supply chain. The financial impact of the conflict in fiscal year 2023, including on accounts receivable and inventory reserves, was not material, and for fiscal year 2023, the business of the Company in these countries represented less than 1% of the Company's consolidated revenues and assets. Although the implications of this conflict are difficult to predict at this time, the ongoing conflict may increase pressure on the global economy and supply chains, resulting in increased future volatility risk for our business operations and performance. Cardiovascular Cardiovascular products include pacemakers, insertable cardiac monitors, cardiac resynchronization therapy devices, implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICD), leads and delivery systems, electrophysiology catheters, products for the treatment of atrial fibrillation, information systems for the management of patients with Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure devices, products designed to reduce surgical site infections, coronary and peripheral stents and related delivery systems, balloons and related delivery systems, endovascular stent graft systems, heart valve replacement technologies, cardiac tissue ablation systems, and open heart and coronary bypass grafting surgical products. Cardiovascular also includes Care Management Services and Cath Lab Managed Services (CLMS) within the Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure division. Cardiovascular net sales for fiscal year 2023 were $11.6 billion, an increase of 1 percent as compared to fiscal year 2022. The net sales increase was primarily due to the strong performance of Micra, TAVR, and Diagnostics, partially offset by unfavorable currency impact of $569 million and supply chain challenges in certain businesses. The charts below illustrate the percent of Cardiovascular net sales by division for fiscal years 2023 and 2022: Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure (CRHF) net sales decreased 1 percent in fiscal year 2023 as compared to fiscal year 2022. The decrease was driven by Cardiac Ablation Solutions experiencing competitive pressures in Western Europe, as well as the pending volume-based procurement (VBP) tenders in China, offset by continued adoption of Micra AV, TYRX antibacterial envelopes, LINQ II implants, and growth from Arctic Front cryoblation catheters in the U.S. 35 Table of C ontents Structural Heart & Aortic (SHA) net sales increased 10 percent in fiscal year 2023 as compared to fiscal year 2022. The increase was led by growth in transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR), including the U.S. and Japan. Results include $265 million of revenue from a one-time payment received as a result of the Intellectual Property Agreement (agreement) entered into with Edwards Lifesciences (Edwards) on April 12, 2023. As part of this agreement, Edwards will also pay the Company royalty payments tied to future net sales of certain Edwards products. Net sales growth was negatively impacted by a field corrective action with the Harmony Transcatheter Pulmonary Valve and Delivery Catheter System. Coronary & Peripheral Vascular (CPV) net sales decreased 3 percent in fiscal year 2023 as compared to fiscal year 2022. The net sales declines were driven by market procedural volumes in Coronary remaining below pre-COVID levels in several major markets, headwinds related to U.S. hospital contrast shortages early in fiscal year 2023, and declines in Peripheral Vascular Health due to competitors re-entering the market and supply chain challenges. Net sales declines were partially offset by strong demand combined with improved product availability of the SpiderFX embolic protection device (EPD) and strong performance of our superficial venous product portfolio, including the VenaSeal system. In addition to the macro-economic and geopolitical factors described in the Net Sales section, looking ahead, we expect Cardiovascular could be affected by the following: • Continued growth of our Micra transcatheter pacing system. Our portfolio consists of Micra VR and Micra AV, which offer leadless pacing therapy to approximately 45 percent of pacemaker patients. We expect the launch of next generation Micra AV2/VR2 in the first quarter of fiscal year 2024 will continue to support adoption of leadless pacing, as it extends the capability of the Micra portfolio by adding significant battery longevity and programming simplicity. • Continued acceptance and growth from the Azure XT and S SureScan pacing systems and the 3830 lead. Azure pacemakers feature Medtronic-exclusive BlueSync technology, which enables automatic, secure wireless remote monitoring with increased device longevity. The 3830 lead, previously labeled for His-bundle pacing, has now been expanded to include left bundle branch area pacing. • Growth of the Cobalt and Crome portfolio of ICDs and CRT-Ds. • Growth of the CRT-P quadripolar pacing system. • Continued growth, adoption, and utilization of the TYRX Envelope for implantable devices. • Continued acceptance and expansion of the LINQ II cardiac monitor. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2022, we launched two AccuRhythm AI algorithms on the LINQ II platform to significantly reduce false positive alerts for Atrial Fibrillation and pause episodes while retaining sensitivity for true positive detection and reduce clinic workload and burden. AccuRhythm AI launched in Europe during the first quarter of fiscal year 2023. • Continued growth of Arctic Front cryoablation for treatment of atrial fibrillation. • Acceptance and growth of the Affera Mapping/Navigation System and Sphere 9 mapping/ablation catheter. The system was launched under a limited market release in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2023 in Western Europe. • Continued acceptance and growth of the self-expanding CoreValve Evolut transcatheter aortic valve replacement platform. This includes Evolut PRO which provides enhanced hemodynamics, reliable delivery, enhanced durability, advanced sealing, and Evolut FX, a system designed to improve the overall procedural experience through enhancements in deliverability, implant visibility, and deployment stability. • Continued expansion and training of field support to increase coverage in the U.S. centers performing TAVR procedures. • Continued acceptance and growth of the Onyx Frontier DES platform. The platform launched in the U.S. in the first quarter of fiscal year 2023 and in select international countries in the second quarter of fiscal year 2023. Onyx Frontier is a drug-eluding stent (DES) that introduces an enhanced delivery system and is used for complex percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). • Continued acceptance of the VenaSeal Closure System in the U.S. The VenaSeal Closure System is a unique non-thermal solution to address superficial venous disease that provides improved patient comfort, reduces the recovery time, and eliminates the risk of thermal nerve injury. • Acceptance and growth of IN.PACT 018 drug-coated balloon (DCB). The product was launched in the U.S. under limited market release in the first quarter of fiscal year 2023 with full market release in the third quarter of fiscal year 2023. IN.PACT 018 adds to the existing IN.PACT Admiral DCB portfolio and is used to treat femoropopliteal disease. 36 Table of C ontents • Market and competitive pressure on sales of the Abre venous self-expanding stent system. Abre is designed for the unique challenges of venous disease. Now backed by 36 months of data, it offers easy deployment and delivers demonstrated endurance, to give patients freedom of movement. • Our ability to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval of and commercialize the products within our pipeline, which include, but are not limited to, the Symplicity Spyral Multi-Electrode Renal Denervation Catheter, Pulse Field Ablation, a novel energy source that is non-thermal, and Aurora Extravascular ICD. Medical Surgical Medical Surgical’s products span the entire continuum of patient care from diagnosis to recovery, with a focus on diseases of the gastrointestinal tract, lungs, pelvic region, kidneys, obesity, and preventable complications. The products include those for advanced and general surgical products, surgical stapling devices, vessel sealing instruments, wound closure, electrosurgery products, hernia mechanical devices, mesh implants, advanced ablation, interventional lung, ventilators, airway products, renal care products, and sensors and monitors for pulse oximetry, capnography, level of consciousness and cerebral oximetry. Medical Surgical’s net sales for fiscal year 2023 were $8.4 billion, a decrease of 8 percent as compared to fiscal year 2022. The net sales decrease was primarily driven by unfavorable currency impact of $454 million, provincial volume-based procurement (VBP) stapling tenders in China, and a decline in ventilator sales due to the high COVID-19 demand in the corresponding period in the prior fiscal year. Supply chain disruptions, particularly in Surgical Innovations, also contributed to the net sales decrease for fiscal year 2023. The charts below illustrate the percent of Medical Surgical net sales by division for fiscal years 2023 and 2022: Surgical Innovations net sales for fiscal year 2023 decreased 7 percent as compared to fiscal year 2022. The net sales decline was led by Advanced Surgical instruments, driven by global supply chain challenges, including resins, semiconductors, and packaging trays, which impacted energy and stapling products, and provincial VBP stapling tenders and COVID-19 lockdowns in China. These declines were partially offset by growth in Advanced Energy in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2023. Respiratory, Gastrointestinal, & Renal (RGR) net sales for fiscal year 2023 decreased 10 percent as compared to fiscal year 2022. RGR net sales declines were largely due to declines in ventilator demand when compared to the corresponding period in the prior fiscal year as demand dropped below pre-pandemic levels, as well as declines in RCS driven by product availability challenges in the first three quarters of fiscal year 2023, and only two months of sales in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2023 as a result of the April 1, 2023 contribution of half of the Company's RCS business to form Mozarc Medical. These declines were partially offset by growth in Gastrointestinal driven by strength in sales of GI Genius. 37 Table of C ontents In addition to the macro-economic and geopolitical factors described in the Net Sales section, looking ahead we expect Medical Surgical could be affected by the following: • The pending separation of the combined Patient Monitoring and Respiratory Interventions businesses from the Medical Surgical Portfolio. The Company announced its intention to pursue a separation in October 2022 and expects to complete the separation 18 to 24 months from the announcement date. • Acceptance and continued growth of Open-to-MIS (minimally invasive surgery) techniques and tools through our efforts to transition open surgery to MIS. Open-to-MIS initiative focuses on capturing the market opportunity that exists in transitioning open procedures to MIS, whether through traditional MIS, advanced instrumentation, or robotics. Through our approach, in parallel, we also expand our presence and optimize open surgery in current open surgery markets. • Continued global acceptance and future growth of powered stapling and energy platform. • Our ability to execute ongoing strategies addressing the competitive pressure of reprocessing vessel sealing disposables and growth of our surgical soft tissue robotics procedures in the U.S. • Our ability to create markets and drive products and procedures into emerging markets with our high quality and cost-effective surgical products designed for customers in emerging markets. An example is our ValleyLab LS10 single channel vessel sealing generator, which is compatible with our line of LigaSure instruments and designed for simplified use and affordability. • Acceptance of less invasive standards of care in gastrointestinal and hepatology products, including products that span the care continuum from diagnostics to therapeutics. Recently launched products include GI Genius and PillCam capsule endoscopy. • Expanding the use of less invasive treatments and furthering our commitment to improving options for women with abnormal uterine bleeding. Our expanded and strengthened surgical offerings complement our global gynecology business. • Global adoption of robotic-assisted surgery and installations of Hugo robotic assisted surgery (RAS) system for urologic, bariatric, gynecologic, and general surgery procedures. This includes continued integration and adoption of Touch Surgery Enterprise with the first artificial intelligence powered surgical videos and analytics platform to make it easier to train and discover new techniques within the robotics platform. The Hugo RAS system, which received CE Mark in October 2021, as well as secured additional regulatory approvals outside the U.S., is designed to help reduce unwanted variability, improve patient outcomes, and, by extension, lower per procedure cost. • Our ability to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval of and commercialize the products within our pipeline, which include, but are not limited to, our Hugo RAS system in the U.S., Signia power stapling devices, and our next-gen Ligasure and Sonicision vessel sealing devices. Neuroscience Neuroscience's products include various spinal implants, bone graft substitutes, biologic products, image-guided surgery and intra-operative imaging systems, robotic guidance systems used in the robot-assisted spine procedures, and systems that incorporate advanced energy surgical instruments. Neuroscience's products also focus on therapies to treat the diseases of the vasculature in and around the brain, including coils, neurovascular stents, and flow diversion products, as well as products to treat ear, nose, and throat (ENT), and the treatment of overactive bladder, urinary retention, fecal incontinence. Neuroscience also manufactures products related to implantable neurostimulation therapies and drug delivery systems for the treatment of chronic pain, movement disorders, and epilepsy. Neuroscience’s net sales for fiscal year 2023 were $9.0 billion, an increase of 2 percent as compared to fiscal year 2022. The net sales increase was primarily due to growth in U.S. Core Spine, Neurovascular, ENT, and continued supply risk mitigation, partially offset by unfavorable currency impact of $281 million and supply chain challenges in certain businesses. 38 Table of C ontents The graphs below illustrate the percent of Neuroscience net sales by division for fiscal years 2023 and 2022: Cranial & Spinal Technologies (CST) net sales for fiscal year 2023 were flat as compared to fiscal year 2022 as growth within U.S. Core Spine was offset by net sales declines in Biologics and unfavorable currency impact. The growth in U.S. Core Spine products was driven by the continued adoption of the Aible ecosystem of spine products. The net sales increase was also attributable to strong sales of StealthStation Navigation and Midas Rex powered surgical instruments. The decline in net sales in Biologics was due to supply chain challenges throughout the year. Specialty Therapies (Specialty) net sales for fiscal year 2023 increased 9 percent as compared to fiscal year 2022. The increase was driven by growth in hemorrhagic and ischemic stroke, flow diversion and access delivery products. The net sales increase was also driven by benefits from the May 2022 acquisition of Intersect ENT. Neuromodulation (NM) net sales for fiscal year 2023 decreased 2 percent as compared to fiscal year 2022. The decline in net sales was largely due to declines of Brain Modulation replacement devices and supply chain challenges in Interventional, which has recently seen improvements in product availability. The decline was partially offset by growth within Pain Stim and to a lesser extent, Targeted Drug Delivery. In addition to the macro-economic and geopolitical factors described in the Net Sales section, looking ahead we expect Neuroscience could be affected by the following: • Continued adoption and growth of our integrated solutions through the Aible offering, which integrates spinal implants with enabling technologies (StealthStation, O-arm Imaging Systems, and Midas), Mazor robotics, and UNiD Adaptive Spine Intelligence AI-driven technology for surgical planning and personalized spinal implants. • Market acceptance and continued global adoption of innovative new spine products and procedural solutions within our CST operating unit, such as Catalyft PL, ModuLeX, CD Horizon Voyager System, and our Infinity OCT System, as well as continued growth from Titan spine titanium interbody implants with Nanolock technology. • Continued growth of Pipeline Embolization Devices, endovascular treatments for large or giant wide-necked brain aneurysms. • Continued acceptance and growth of the Solitaire X revascularization device for treatment of acute ischemic stroke and our React Catheter and Riptide aspiration system. • Strengthening our position in the ENT market as a result of the May 2022 acquisition of Intersect ENT, a global ENT medical technology leader. The acquisition expands Neuroscience's portfolio of products used during ENT procedures and combined with the Company's navigation, powered instruments, and existing tissue health products, offers a broader suite of solutions to assist surgeons treating patients who suffer from chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS). 39 Table of C ontents • Continued acceptance and growth of our Pelvic Health and ENT therapies, including our InterStim therapy with InterStim X and InterStim II recharge-free neurostimulators and InterStim Micro rechargeable neurostimulator for patients suffering from overactive bladder, (non-obtrusive) urinary retention, and chronic fecal incontinence, and capital equipment sales of the Stealth Station ENT surgical navigation system and intraoperative NIM nerve monitoring system. • Market acceptance and growth from SCS therapy for treating chronic pain and Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathy (DPN) on the Intellis rechargeable neurostimulator and Vanta recharge-free neurostimulator. • Continued acceptance and growth of our Percept family of DBS devices with proprietary BrainSense technology for objectifying and personalizing the treatment of Parkinson's Disease, epilepsy, and other movement disorders. • Ongoing obligations under the U.S. FDA consent decree entered in April 2015 relating to the SynchroMed drug infusion system and the Neuromodulation quality system. The U.S. FDA lifted its distribution requirements on our implantable drug pump in October 2017 and its warning letter in November 2017. • Our ability to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval of and commercialize the products within our pipeline, which include our closed-loop Percept devices with adaptive DBS (aDBS) and Inceptiv Neurostimulator, as well as our hemorrhagic stroke intravascular device, and our next-generation spine enabling technologies. Diabetes Diabetes' products include insulin pumps, continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) systems, consumables, and smart insulin pen systems. Diabetes' sales for fiscal year 2023 were $2.3 billion, a decrease of 3 percent as compared to fiscal year 2022. The decrease in net sales was primarily driven by unfavorable currency impact of $133 million and declines in the U.S. The net sales declines were partially offset by strong international growth primarily driven by the continued international expansion of the MiniMed 780G insulin pump system and integrated CGM. During April 2023, the U.S. FDA lifted the warning letter received in December 2021. In addition to the macro-economic and geopolitical factors described in the Net Sales section, looking ahead we expect Diabetes could be affected by the following: • Continued acceptance and growth for the MiniMed 780G insulin pump system, which is powered by SmartGuard technology and features the added benefits of meal detection technology that automatically adjusts and corrects sugar level levels every five minutes. The global adoption of sensor-augmented insulin pump systems has resulted in strong sensor attachment rates. The MiniMed 780G insulin pump system with the Guardian 4 Sensor was approved by the U.S. FDA in late April 2023. • Continued acceptance and growth of the Guardian Connect CGM system, which displays glucose information directly to a smartphone to help ensure patients have access to their glucose levels seamlessly and discretely. The Guardian Connect CGM system is available on both Apple iOS and Android devices. • Market acceptance and growth of our InPen smart pen system, which allows users to have their Medtronic CGM readings in real-time alongside insulin dose information, all in one view. • Continued pump, CGM, and consumable competition in an expanding global market. • Changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs, along with additional payor coverage on insulin pumps. • Our ability to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval of and commercialize the products within our pipeline, including our next-generation sensor Simplera, which has been submitted to the U.S. FDA. 40 Table of C ontents COSTS AND EXPENSES The following is a summary of cost of products sold, research and development, and selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percent of net sales: Cost of Products Sold Cost of products sold for fiscal year 2023 was $10.7 billion as compared to $10.1 billion for fiscal year 2022. The increase in cost of products sold as a percentage of net sales was primarily attributable to increased labor and direct material manufacturing costs, predominantly due to inflationary pressures and supply chain challenges, increased freight due to higher fuel costs and expedited shipments for backorders resulting from supply chain challenges, as well as increased inventory reserves. Fiscal year 2022 included $58 million of inventory write-downs associated with our June 2021 decision to stop the distribution and sale of Medtronic's HVAD System (MCS charges). Looking forward, our cost of products sold likely will be further negatively impacted by inflation and higher labor and direct material costs. We continue to focus on reducing our costs of production through supplier management, manufacturing improvements, and optimizing our manufacturing network. Research and Development Expense We remain committed to deliver the best possible experiences for patients, physicians, and caregivers we serve; to create technologies that expand what’s possible across the human body to transform lives; to turn data and insights into real action to serve patient needs, improving care; and to expand healthcare access and deliver positive outcomes. Research and development expense for fiscal years 2023 and 2022 was $2.7 billion. Fiscal year 2022 included $101 million of expense related to acquisitions of, and license payments for, technology not approved by regulators, primarily in our Diabetes segment. Selling, General, and Administrative Expense Our goal is to continue to leverage selling, general, and administrative expense initiatives. Selling, general, and administrative expense primarily consists of salaries and wages, other administrative costs, such as professional fees and marketing expenses, certain acquisition, divestiture and separation-related costs, and restructuring expenses. Selling, general, and administrative expense for fiscal year 2023 was $10.4 billion as compared to $10.3 billion for fiscal year 2022. The increase in selling, general, and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales was primarily driven by employee travel, and to a lesser extent by lower net sales, partially offset by a reduction in professional services. The following is a summary of other costs and expenses (income): Fiscal Year (in millions) 2023 2022 Amortization of intangible assets $ 1,698 $ 1,733 Restructuring charges, net 375 60 Certain litigation charges, net (30) 95 Other operating (income) expense, net (131) 862 Other non-operating income, net (515) (318) Interest expense, net 636 553 41 Table of C ontents Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization of intangible assets includes the amortization expense of our definite-lived intangible assets, consisting of purchased patents, trademarks, tradenames, customer relationships, purchased technology, and other intangible assets. Restructuring Charges, Net In fiscal years 2023 and 2022, restructuring costs primarily related to Enterprise Excellence and Simplification restructuring programs, both of which were substantially completed as of the end of this fiscal year. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2023, we incurred $0.3 billion of restructuring charges primarily related to employee termination benefits to support cost reduction initiatives. These charges were incremental to charges incurred under our Enterprise Excellence and Simplification programs noted above. For all programs, employee-related costs primarily consist of termination benefits provided to employees who have been involuntarily terminated and voluntary early retirement benefits. Associated costs primarily include salaries and wages of employees that are fully-dedicated to restructuring programs and consulting fees. For additional information about our restructuring programs, refer to Note 4 of the consolidated financial statements in "