Management's Discussion and Analysis for more information on the composition of the Surgical Innovations and Respiratory, Gastrointestinal, & Renal divisions. For fiscal year 2018 , total net sales were unfavorably affected by the divestiture of the Patient Care, Deep Vein Thrombosis, and Nutritional Insufficiency businesses within the Minimally Invasive Therapies Group which closed on the first day of the second quarter of fiscal year 2018. Our performance continues to be fueled by our three growth strategies: therapy innovation, globalization, and economic value. We are creating competitive advantages and capitalizing on the long-term trends in healthcare: namely the desire to improve clinical outcomes, the growing demand for expanded access to care, and the optimization of cost and efficiency within healthcare systems. In our therapy innovation growth strategy, we continue to see clear acceleration in our innovation cycle, with several meaningful new product launches during fiscal year 2018 across all of our segments. We advanced a pipeline of groundbreaking medical technology, and we are creating new markets, disrupting existing markets, and leading in several of the fastest growth markets. In globalization, net sales in emerging markets grew 12% during fiscal year 2018 as compared to fiscal year 2017. Our consistent emerging market performance continues to benefit from geographic diversification, with strong, balanced results around the world. In our third growth strategy, economic value, we continue to execute our value-based healthcare signature programs and aggressively develop unique, value-based healthcare solutions that directly link our therapies to improving outcomes across each of our segments. We remain focused on leading the shift to healthcare payment systems that reward value and improved patient outcomes over volume. 33 Table of Contents Segment and Market Geography The tables below include net sales by market geography for each of our segments for fiscal years 2018 , 2017 , and 2016: U.S. (1) Non-U.S. Developed Markets (2) Emerging Markets (3) (in millions) Fiscal Year 2018 Fiscal Year 2017 % Change Fiscal Year 2018 Fiscal Year 2017 % Change Fiscal Year 2018 Fiscal Year 2017 % Change Cardiac and Vascular Group $ 5,681 $ 5,454 4 % $ 3,790 $ 3,393 12 % $ 1,883 $ 1,651 14 % Minimally Invasive Therapies Group 3,804 5,049 (25 ) 3,378 3,479 (3 ) 1,534 1,391 10 Restorative Therapies Group 5,164 5,012 3 1,720 1,588 8 859 766 12 Diabetes Group 1,226 1,148 7 739 625 18 175 154 14 Total $ 15,875 $ 16,663 (5 )% $ 9,627 $ 9,085 6 % $ 4,451 $ 3,962 12 % U.S. (1) Non-U.S. Developed Markets (2) Emerging Markets (3) (in millions) Fiscal Year 2017 Fiscal Year 2016 % Change Fiscal Year 2017 Fiscal Year 2016 % Change Fiscal Year 2017 Fiscal Year 2016 % Change Cardiac and Vascular Group $ 5,454 $ 5,347 2 % $ 3,393 $ 3,283 3 % $ 1,651 $ 1,566 5 % Minimally Invasive Therapies Group 5,049 5,014 1 3,479 3,299 5 1,391 1,250 11 Restorative Therapies Group 5,012 4,921 2 1,588 1,542 3 766 747 3 Diabetes Group 1,148 1,140 1 625 584 7 154 140 10 Total $ 16,663 $ 16,422 1 % $ 9,085 $ 8,708 4 % $ 3,962 $ 3,703 7 % (1) U.S. includes the United States and U.S. territories. (2) Non-U.S. developed markets include Japan, Australia, New Zealand, Korea, Canada, and the countries of Western Europe. (3) Emerging markets include the countries of the Middle East, Africa, Latin America, Eastern Europe, and the countries of Asia that are not included in the non-U.S. developed markets, as defined above. For fiscal year 2018 , net sales for the U.S. decreased 5 percent, developed markets outside the U.S. increased 6 percent, and emerging markets increased 12 percent as compared to fiscal year 2017 . Net sales declines in the U.S. were impacted by the July 29, 2017 divestiture of our Patient Care, Deep Vein Thrombosis, and Nutritional Insufficiency businesses within the Minimally Invasive Therapies Group, partially offset by growth in the other segments. Net sales growth in non-U.S. developed markets was led by strong performance in Western Europe. Emerging market sales growth was driven by solid performance in all of our segments, with strong performance in China, Latin America, Eastern Europe and the Middle East & Africa. Currency had a favorable effect of $494 million on net sales for fiscal year 2018 . For fiscal year 2017 , net sales for the U.S. increased 1 percent, non-U.S. developed markets increased 4 percent, and emerging markets increased 7 percent as compared to fiscal year 2016. Net sales growth across all markets was driven by meaningful product 34 Table of Contents launches and introduction of groundbreaking new technologies, partially offset by an unfavorable impact of an additional selling week during the first quarter of fiscal year 2016. Net sales growth in the U.S. was led by strong growth in the Cardiac and Vascular Group and Minimally Invasive Therapies Group and solid growth in the Restorative Therapies Group and Diabetes Group. In Emerging Markets, net sales growth was also attributable to the expansion of access to our therapies. Looking ahead, our segments are likely to face competitive product launches and pricing pressure, geographic macro-economic risks, reimbursement challenges, impacts from changes in the mix of our product offerings, the timing of product registration approvals, replacement cycle challenges, and fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Additionally, changes in procedural volumes could affect our Cardiac and Vascular, Minimally Invasive Therapies, and Restorative Therapies Groups. Cardiac and Vascular Group The Cardiac and Vascular Group’s products include pacemakers, insertable and external cardiac monitors, cardiac resynchronization therapy devices (CRT-D), implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICD), leads and delivery systems, ventricular assist systems, ablation products, electrophysiology catheters, products for the treatment of atrial fibrillation, information systems for the management of patients with Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure devices, products designed to reduce surgical site infections, coronary and peripheral stents, balloons, and related delivery systems, endovascular stent graft systems, heart valve replacement technologies, cardiac tissue ablation systems, and open heart and coronary bypass grafting surgical products. The Cardiac and Vascular Group also includes Care Management Services and Cath Lab Managed Services (CLMS) within the Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure division. The Cardiac and Vascular Group's net sales for fiscal year 2018 were $11.4 billion , an increase of 8 percent as compared to fiscal year 2017. Currency had a favorable impact on net sales for fiscal year 2018 of $215 million. Cardiac and Vascular Group's net sales for fiscal year 2018 , as compared to fiscal year 2017, benefited from strong net sales in all three divisions. See the more detailed discussion of each division's performance below. Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure net sales for fiscal year 2018 were $5.9 billion , an increase of 5 percent as compared to fiscal year 2017. Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure net sales growth for fiscal year 2018 was driven by strong growth in Arrhythmia Management and Heart Failure. The strong growth in Arrhythmia Management was largely due to growth in AF Solutions, driven by the continued global acceptance of our Arctic Front Advance Cardiac CryoAblation Catheter (Arctic Front) system, growth in Diagnostics, driven by the continued adoption of the Reveal LINQ insertable cardiac monitor, as well as strong adoption of the Micra transcatheter pacing system and TYRX absorbable antibacterial envelope. The strong growth in Heart Failure was driven by growth in Mechanical Circulatory Support from sales of the HVAD system, as well as continued demand for the CRT-P quadripolar pacing system, which launched in the U.S. in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. Coronary & Structural Heart net sales for fiscal year 2018 were $3.6 billion , an increase of 14 percent as compared to fiscal year 2017. Coronary & Structural Heart net sales growth for fiscal year 2018 was largely driven by the continued strong customer adoption of the Evolut PRO Transcatheter Aortic Valve system (Evolut PRO) and the Evolut R 34mm transcatheter aortic heart valve, as well as continued penetration into intermediate risk in the U.S., which received approval late in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. Net sales growth was also driven by the continued strong demand for the Resolute Onyx drug-eluting stent in the U.S. and Japan, which launched in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. Aortic & Peripheral Vascular net sales for fiscal year 2018 were $1.8 billion , an increase of 6 percent as compared to fiscal year 2017. Aortic & Peripheral Vascular net sales growth for fiscal year 2018 was driven by growth in Valiant Captivia Thoracic stent grafts, Percutaneous Transluminal Angioplasty (PTA) balloons and drug-coated balloons, as well as success of the Heli-FX EndoAnchor System.  Net sales growth was further driven by strong performance in EndoVenous due to accelerated growth of the VenaSeal vein closure system, for which approval for reimbursement payment in the U.S. from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) was initiated in January 2018. The Cardiac and Vascular Group's net sales for fiscal year 2017 were $10.5 billion , an increase of 3 percent as compared to fiscal year 2016. The Cardiac and Vascular Group’s net sales for fiscal year 2017 were unfavorably affected by an additional selling week during the first quarter fiscal year 2016. The Cardiac and Vascular Group's net sales for fiscal year 2017, as compared to fiscal year 2016, benefited from strong net sales in Arrhythmia Management within Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure, largely due to growth in AF Solutions and Diagnostics, Coronary & Structural Heart, largely due to the transcatheter aortic heart valve in the U.S. and Europe, and in Aortic & Peripheral Vascular, as well as the acquisition of HeartWare in the second quarter of fiscal year 2017. See the more detailed discussion of each division's performance below. Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure net sales for fiscal year 2017 were $5.6 billion , an increase of 3 percent as compared to fiscal year 2016. Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure net sales growth for fiscal year 2017 was driven by strong growth in Arrhythmia Management, largely due to growth in AF Solutions and Diagnostics. The strong growth in AF Solutions was driven by the continued global acceptance of our Arctic Front Advance Cardiac CryoAblation Catheter (Arctic Front) system, including strong growth in Japan. The strong growth in Diagnostics was driven by the continued adoption of the Reveal LINQ insertable cardiac 35 Table of Contents monitor. Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure also benefited from the acquisition of HeartWare, which was acquired during the second quarter of fiscal year 2017. Coronary & Structural Heart net sales for fiscal year 2017 were $3.1 billion , an increase of 1 percent as compared to fiscal year 2016. Coronary & Structural Heart net sales growth for fiscal year 2017 was largely driven by the continued launch of the Evolut R 34mm transcatheter aortic heart valve in the U.S. and Europe. Net sales growth was partially offset by challenges with drug-eluting stents in both the U.S. and Japan due to competitive pressures related to the anticipated approval of the Resolute Onyx drug-eluting stents in these countries, which received U.S. FDA approval, as well as approval in Japan, during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. Net sales growth was also partially offset by continued pricing pressures and competition worldwide in our Coronary business. Aortic & Peripheral Vascular net sales for fiscal year 2017 were $1.7 billion , an increase of 6 percent as compared to fiscal year 2016. Aortic & Peripheral Vascular net sales growth for fiscal year 2017 was driven by the continued strong worldwide growth of the IN.PACT Admiral drug-coated balloon as well as success of the Heli-FX EndoAnchor System and the Endurant IIs aortic stent graft. Net sales growth as compared to fiscal year 2016 was also driven by the launch of the HawkOne 6 French directional atherectomy system in the third quarter of fiscal year 2017. Looking ahead, we expect our Cardiac and Vascular Group could be affected by the following: • Continued acceptance and growth of the CRT-P quadripolar pacing system, which received CE Mark approval in February 2017 and launched in Europe during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017. In the U.S., we received Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval in May 2017, and launched in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. • Continued acceptance and growth of the Claria MRI CRT-D system with EffectivCRT Diagnostic and Effective CRT during AF algorithm, which launched in Japan during the third quarter of fiscal year 2018. • Continued growth from the Reveal LINQ insertable cardiac monitor. • Continued growth of our Micra transcatheter pacing system. Micra is a miniaturized single chamber pacemaker system that is delivered through the femoral vein and is implanted in the right ventricle of the heart. The system does not use a lead and does not have a subcutaneous device pocket underneath the skin as with conventional pacemaker systems. We received final approval for reimbursement in the U.S. from the CMS and in Japan from the Ministry of Health, Labour, and Welfare during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017 and during the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, respectively, for this transformative therapy, which we expect will continue to accelerate sales in the U.S. and in Japan. • Acceptance and growth from the Azure XT and S SureScan pacing systems, which launched in the U.S. during the third quarter of fiscal year 2018. Azure pacemakers feature Medtronic-exclusive BlueSync technology, which enables automatic, secure wireless remote monitoring with increased device longevity. • Continued acceptance and growth of the HVAD System as a Destination Therapy for patients with advanced heart failure who are not candidates for heart transplants. The HVAD System, a left ventricular assist device or LVAD, helps the heart pump and increases the amount of blood that flows through the body. In the U.S., we received FDA approval in September 2017 for this Destination Therapy indication, and expect to receive thoracotomy indication during fiscal year 2019. Further, we expect to launch the HVAD system in Japan during fiscal year 2019. • Continued acceptance and growth from Care Management Services as post-acute care services become even more critical in bundled payment models for different interventions or therapies. • Continued acceptance and growth from Evolut R 34mm transcatheter aortic heart valve, our next-generation recapturable system with differentiated 16 French equivalent delivery system, which was launched in the U.S. in the third quarter of fiscal year 2017. • Acceptance and growth from penetration of t he self-expanding CoreValve Evolut Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement platform into intermediate risk indication in the U.S., which received FDA approval during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. 36 Table of Contents • Continued acceptance and growth from Evolut PRO, which provides control during deployment to assist with accurate positioning with the ability to recapture and reposition the valve. Evolut PRO received U.S. FDA approval and launched in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017. Evolut PRO also received CE Mark approval at the end of the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 and launched in Europe during the second quarter of fiscal year 2018. Further, Evolut PRO is expected to launch in Japan during the first half of fiscal year 2019. • Continued acceptance and growth from the market release of Resolute Onyx, which launched in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 in the U.S. and in Japan. Resolute Onyx builds on the Resolute Integrity drug-eluting coronary stent with thinner struts to improve deliverability and is the first stent to feature our CoreWire technology, allowing greater visibility during procedures. • Continued acceptance and growth of the IN.PACT Admiral drug-coated balloon for the treatment of peripheral artery disease in the upper leg. • Continued acceptance and growth from the VenaSeal vein closure system in the United States, for which reimbursement payment was established in January 2018 and payer coverage has been gradually increasing.  The VenaSeal system is a unique non-thermal solution to address superficial venous disease that provides improved patient comfort, reduces the recovery time, and eliminates the risk of thermal nerve injury. • Continued acceptance and growth from the Valiant family of thoracic stent grafts. Building on the success of Valiant Captivia, we expect to launch the next generation Valiant Navion in the United States and Europe during fiscal year 2019. • Continued acceptance and growth from the expansion of the Endurant II used with the Heli-FX EndoAnchor for the short neck indication in the U.S., which received FDA approval in October 2017. Minimally Invasive Therapies Group The Minimally Invasive Therapies Group’s products span the entire continuum of patient care with a focus on diseases of the gastrointestinal tract, lungs, pelvic region, kidneys, obesity, and preventable complications.  The products include those for advanced and general surgical products including surgical stapling devices, vessel sealing instruments, wound closure, electrosurgery products, hernia mechanical devices, mesh implants, advanced ablation, interventional lung, ventilators, capnography, airway products, sensors, dialysis, and monitors. Net sales for the three months ended July 28, 2017 and fiscal years 2017 and 2016 also include sales of dental and animal health, chart paper, wound care, incontinence, electrodes, SharpSafety, thermometry, perinatal protection, blood collection, compression, and enteral feeding offerings, which were divested on July 29, 2017. The Minimally Invasive Therapies Group’s net sales for fiscal year 2018 were $ 8.7 billion , a decrease of 12 percent as compared to fiscal year 2017 . Currency had a favorable impact on net sales of $147 million for fiscal year 2018 . The Minimally Invasive Therapies Group's net sales for fiscal year 2018 were affected by the divestiture of the Patient Care, Deep Vein Thrombosis, and Nutritional Insufficiency businesses on July 29, 2017. Subsequent to the divestiture, during the second quarter of fiscal year 2018 , the Surgical Solutions and Patient Monitoring & Recovery divisions were realigned into the Surgical Innovations and Respiratory, Gastrointestinal, & Renal divisions. The Surgical Innovations division consists of the Advanced Surgical and General Surgical businesses. The Advanced Surgical business includes the Advanced Stapling, Advanced Energy, Hernia, Gynecology, and Interventional Lung product lines. The General Surgical business includes the Wound Closure, Electrosurgery, and Instrument product lines. The Respiratory, Gastrointestinal, & Renal division consists of the Respiratory & Monitoring Solutions and Renal Care Solutions businesses. The Respiratory & Monitoring Solutions business includes the Patient Monitoring, Respiratory Solutions, Advanced Ablation, and GI Solutions product lines. The Renal Care Solutions business includes the Renal Access and Dialyzers product lines. Surgical Innovations net sales for fiscal year 2018 were $5.5 billion , an increase of 8 percent as compared to fiscal year 2017 . Surgical Innovations net sales growth was driven by new products in Advanced Stapling and Advanced Energy, including the Signia powered surgical stapling system and endo stapling specialty reloads. Also driving net sales was our Valleylab FT10 energy platform and new iterations of our LigaSure vessel sealing instruments, and growth in emerging markets. Respiratory, Gastrointestinal, & Renal net sales for fiscal year 2018 were $3.2 billion , a decrease of 33 percent as compared to fiscal year 2017 . Respiratory, Gastrointestinal, & Renal net sales declined as a result of the July 29, 2017 divestiture of the Patient Care, Deep Vein Thrombosis, and Nutritional Insufficiency businesses. Apart from the decline in net sales due to the divestiture, net sales performance in Respiratory, Gastrointestinal, & Renal benefited from growth in GI Solutions, the strength in Nellcor 37 Table of Contents pulse oximetry products due to the intensity of the flu season in the U.S., the continued adoption of MicroStream capnography monitoring product, and growth in Airway and Ventilation net sales. Surgical Innovations net sales for fiscal year 2017 were $5.1 billion , an increase of 6 percent as compared to fiscal year 2016 . Surgical Innovations net sales growth was driven by Advanced Stapling and Advanced Energy. Advanced Stapling growth resulted from strong adoption of endo stapling specialty reloads with Tri-Staple technology, growth in emerging markets, and the release of the Signia power stapling system. Advanced Energy growth resulted from the launch of the LigaSure vessel sealing instruments and continued adoption of the Valleylab FT10 energy platform. The launch of the LigaSure vessel sealing instruments along with the Valleylab FT10 energy platform helped mitigate the negative impact of reprocessing. Surgical Innovations also benefited from the acquisition of Smith & Nephew's gynecology business, which was acquired during the second quarter of fiscal year 2017 . Respiratory, Gastrointestinal, & Renal net sales for fiscal year 2017 were $4.8 billion , an increase of 1 percent as compared to fiscal year 2016 . Respiratory, Gastrointestinal, & Renal net sales growth was driven by strong Respiratory & Monitoring Services sales of the Puritan Bennett 980 and Nellcor pulse oximetry products, along with growth in emerging markets. Respiratory, Gastrointestinal, & Renal also benefited from the acquisition of Bellco, which was acquired during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016 . Looking ahead, we expect our Minimally Invasive Therapies Group could be affected by the following: • Continued acceptance and growth of Open-to-Minimally Invasive Surgery (MIS) techniques and tools supported by our efforts to transition open surgery to MIS. The Open-to-MIS initiative focuses on establishing our presence in and working to optimize open surgery globally, while capturing the market opportunity that exists in transitioning open procedures to MIS, whether through traditional MIS, or advanced technologies including robotics. To achieve this transition, we are focused on product training, surgical skill training and continued therapy innovation to advance MIS. • Our ability to execute ongoing strategies to develop, gain regulatory approval, and commercialize new products, including our surgical robotics platform. • The July 29, 2017 divestiture of the Patient Care, Deep Vein Thrombosis, and Nutritional Insufficiency businesses. Net sales of the businesses included in the divestiture were $2.4 billion for fiscal years 2017 and 2016. We have entered into Transition Manufacturing Agreements (TMAs) with Cardinal Health, Inc. (Cardinal). The TMAs will contribute to net sales and are designed to ensure and facilitate an orderly transfer of business operations for a transition period of two to five years, with the ability to extend upon mutual agreement of the parties. • Continued acceptance and growth of the powered stapling and energy platform. • Our ability to execute ongoing strategies in order to address the competitive pressure of reprocessing of our vessel sealing disposables in the U.S. • Our ability to create markets and drive product and procedures into emerging markets. We have high quality and cost-effective surgical products designed for customers in emerging markets such as the ValleyLab LS10 single channel vessel sealing generator, which is compatible with our line of LigaSure instruments and designed for simplified use and affordability. • Continued acceptance and growth within the end stage renal disease market. The population of patients treated for end stage renal disease globally is expected to double over the next decade. We will grow our therapy innovation with scalable and affordable dialysis delivery while investing in vascular creation and maintenance technologies. In addition, the HD multi-pass system reduces infrastructure by requiring less water, less start-up costs, and offers high quality ultrapure dialysate treatment. The system is expected to launch in late fiscal year 2020, but timing may shift depending on regulatory requirements. • Continued elevation of the standard of care for respiratory compromise, a progressive condition impacting a patient’s ability to breathe effectively. • Continued acceptance and growth in respiratory care, airway and ventilation management, and Patient Monitoring. Key products in this area include the Puritan Bennett 980 ventilator, Microstream Capnography bedside capnography monitor, portable monitor with Nellcor pulse oximetry system with OxiMax technology and the Nellcor Respiratory Compromise monitor with vital signs of SpO2, pulse rate, End-Tidal CO2, and Respiratory Rate. 38 Table of Contents • Continued acceptance of less invasive standards of care, including the areas of GI Solutions and Advanced Ablation. Recently launched products include the PillCam COLON capsule endoscopy, the Barrx platform through ablation with the Barrx 360 Express catheter, and the Emprint ablation system with Thermosphere Technology, which maintains predictable spherical ablation zones throughout procedures reducing procedure time and cost. • Continued acceptance of Interventional Lung Solutions. Products include the superDimension GenCut core biopsy system and the Triple Needle Cytology Brush, a lung tissue biopsy tool for use with the superDimension navigation system. The superDimension system enables a minimally invasive approach to accessing difficult-to-reach areas of the lung, which may aid in the diagnosis of lung cancer. • Expanding the use of less invasive treatments and furthering our commitment to improving options for women with abnormal uterine bleeding with our fiscal year 2017 acquisition of Smith & Nephew's gynecology business. The addition expanded and strengthened the surgical offerings and complemented our global gynecology business. Restorative Therapies Group The Restorative Therapies Group's products focus on various areas of the spine, bone graft substitutes, biologic products, trauma, implantable neurostimulation therapies and drug delivery systems for the treatment of chronic pain, movement disorders, obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), overactive bladder, urinary retention, fecal incontinence and gastroparesis, as well as products to treat conditions of the ear, nose, and throat, and systems that incorporate advanced energy surgical instruments. The Restorative Therapies Group also manufactures and sells image-guided surgery and intra-operative imaging systems and therapies to treat diseases of the vasculature in and around the brain, including coils, neurovascular stents and flow diversion products. The Restorative Therapies Group’s net sales for fiscal year 2018 were $7.7 billion , an increase of 5 percent as compared to fiscal year 2017 . Currency had a favorable impact on net sales for fiscal year 2018 of $85 million. The Restorative Therapies Group’s performance for fiscal year 2018 was driven by strong growth in Brain Therapies and solid growth in Specialty Therapies and Pain Therapies. See the more detailed discussion of each division's performance below. Spine net sales for fiscal year 2018 were $2.7 billion , an increase of 1 percent as compared to fiscal year 2017 . Spine net sales growth was driven by growth in bone morphogenetic protein (composed of INFUSE bone graft (InductOs in the European Union)), partially offset by a slight decline in Core Spine. Core Spine net sales declined due to continued overall market softness in the U.S. and Europe, partially offset by the continued success of our Surgical Synergy strategy, which integrates our spinal implants with enabling technologies such as imaging, navigation, power instruments, nerve monitoring and Mazor robotics sold by our Neurosurgery business, and our "Speed-to-Scale" initiative, which involves faster innovation cycles and the launching of a steady cadence of new products at scale with sets immediately available for the entire market. Brain Therapies net sales for fiscal year 2018 were $2.4 billion , an increase of 12 percent as compared to fiscal year 2017 . Brain Therapies net sales growth was driven by strong growth in both Neurovascular and Neurosurgery. Neurovascular net sales growth was driven by strength across our stroke portfolio, specifically in stents, as a result of our leading role in the development of the endovascular therapy market for treatment of ischemic stroke. Neurosurgery net sales growth was driven by strong sales of the StealthStation S8 surgical navigation system, O-arm O2 surgical imaging system, Visualase MRI-guided laser ablation system, Midas disposables, as well as disposables revenue from placement of capital equipment through our distributor agreement with Mazor. Net sales growth in Neurovascular and Neurosurgery for fiscal year 2018 was partially offset by slight declines in Brain Modulation due to competitive pressures in major markets. Specialty Therapies net sales for fiscal year 2018 were $1.6 billion , an increase of 4 percent as compared to fiscal year 2017 . Specialty Therapies net sales growth was driven by growth in ENT, Pelvic Health, and Transformative Solutions. Pain Therapies net sales for fiscal year 2018 were $1.2 billion , an increase of 3 percent as compared to fiscal year 2017 . Pain Therapies net sales growth was driven by Interventional from the OsteoCool RF Spinal Tumor ablation system. Within Spinal Cord Stimulation, the Intellis Platform launch and ongoing roll-out of the Evolve workflow algorithm contributed to net sales in fiscal year 2018 and helped mitigate competitive pressures in the U.S. and Europe. Spine net sales for fiscal year 2017 were $2.6 billion , flat as compared to fiscal year 2016 . Spine net sales were driven by growth in BMP due to strong U.S. sales, offset by declines in Europe due to the InductOs stop shipment due to suspension in the E.U. Core Spine had net sales growth in the U.S due to new product launches including the Solera Voyager and Elevate expandable cage in conjunction with the "Speed to Scale" initiative, offset by market softness in Europe and the Middle East driven by the macro-economic conditions. Inductos returned to the European market in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. 39 Table of Contents Brain Therapies net sales for fiscal year 2017 were $2.1 billion , an increase of 6 percent as compared to fiscal year 2016 . The increase in net sales was driven by strong growth in both Neurovascular and Neurosurgery. Neurovascular net sales growth was driven by growth in coils from the Axium Prime Extra Soft detachable coil, growth in flow diversion from the Pipeline Flex embolization device, and growth in stents due to the Solitaire revascularization device, partially offset by declines due to a voluntary recall of certain product lines in the second quarter. Neurosurgery net sales growth was driven by strong sales of navigation capital equipment, disposables, and the O-arm O2 surgical imaging system. Despite competitive pressure, Brain Modulation drove net sales growth with U.S. sales of the MR Conditional Activa DBS portfolio and through updated Parkinson’s Disease labeling for patients with Recent Onset of Motor Complications. Specialty Therapies net sales for fiscal year 2017 were $1.5 billion , an increase of 5 percent as compared to fiscal year 2016 . The increase in net sales was driven by strong growth in Transformative Solutions and Pelvic Health and growth in ENT. Net sales growth in Transformative Solutions was driven by the sales of the Aquamantys Transcollation and PEAK PlasmaBlade products. Net sales growth in Pelvic Health was driven by strong InterStim implant growth in the U.S. Net sales growth in ENT benefited from strong adoption of new products, including NuVent balloons and Fusion Compact navigation. Pain Therapies net sales for fiscal year 2017 were $1.1 billion , a decrease of 4 percent as compared to fiscal year 2016 . The decrease in net sales was driven by declines in sales of spinal cord stimulation products due to competitive pressures in the U.S., partially offset by growth in Interventional from the OsteoCool RF Spinal Tumor ablation system. Looking ahead, we expect our Restorative Therapies Group could be affected by the following: • Continued acceptance and growth of the Solitare FR revascularization device for treatment of acute ischemic stroke and the Pipeline Embolization Devices, endovascular treatments for large or giant wide-necked brain aneurysms. • Continued growth from Neurosurgery StealthStation and O-Arm Imaging Systems, Midas, and ENT power systems. • Continued sales of robotic units and associated market adoption of robot-assisted spine procedures, under an exclusive worldwide distributor agreement with Mazor Robotics. • Continued market acceptance of our new integrated solutions through the Surgical Synergy strategy, which integrates our spinal implants with enabling technologies such as imaging, navigation, power instruments, nerve monitoring and Mazor robotics. • Continued success of our "Speed-to-Scale" program launches, which involves faster innovation cycles and launching a steady cadence of new products at scale with sets immediately available for the entire market. • Market acceptance and continued global adoption of innovative new Spine products, such as our CD Horizon Solera Voyager system, our ELEVATE expandable interbody cages, and our OLIF25 and OLIF51 procedural solutions. • Growth in the broader vertebral compression fracture (VCF) and adjacent markets, as we continue to pursue the development of other therapies to treat more patients with VCF, including continued success of both the Kyphon V vertebroplasty system and the Osteocool RF Spinal Tumor ablation system. • Continued acceptance and adoption rates of stimulators and leads approved to treat chronic pain in major markets around the world. Our Intellis spinal cord stimulator and Evolve workflow algorithm have received positive customer reaction since their launch in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018. • Ongoing obligations under the U.S. FDA consent decree entered in April 2015 relating to the SynchroMed drug infusion system and the Neuromodulation quality system. The U.S. FDA lifted its distributor requirements on our implantable drug pump in October and its warning letter in November 2017. • Continued acceptance of our devices for the treatment of Parkinson's Disease and other movement disorders. • Continued acceptance and growth of our Specialty Therapies, including InterStim therapy for the treatment of the symptoms of overactive bladder, urinary retention, and bowel incontinence, and Transformative Solutions products and strategies to focus on its four core markets of orthopedic, spine, breast surgery, and Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management device replacements. 40 Table of Contents Diabetes Group The Diabetes Group's products include insulin pumps, continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) systems, insulin pump consumables, and therapy management software. The Diabetes Group’s net sales for fiscal year 2018 were $2.1 billion , an increase of 11 percent as compared to fiscal year 2017. The Diabetes Group's net sales increased for fiscal year 2018 , primarily as a result of an increase in sales in the U.S. due to continued growth in our customer base through the continued adoption of the MiniMed 670G hybrid closed loop system. Further, we experienced continued growth in international markets due to strong sales of the MiniMed 640G system in Europe and Asia Pacific. The Diabetes Group’s net sales for fiscal year 2017 were $1.9 billion , an increase of 3 percent as compared to fiscal year 2016 . The Diabetes Group's net sales for fiscal year 2017 benefited from growth in both the U.S. and international markets due to strong U.S. sales of the MiniMed 630G system and interest in the Priority Access Program for the MiniMed 670G hybrid closed loop system, as well as strong international sales in Europe, Latin America, and Asia Pacific of the MiniMed 640G system with the Enhanced Enlite sensor. Looking ahead, we expect our Diabetes Group could be affected by the following: • Continued increases in sensor manufacturing capacity to benefit from rapidly growing demands. In the fourth quarter of 2018, sensor expansion efforts were met with unconstrained capacity and completed with no back orders. We expect to keep sensor utilization strong and continue commercial expansion into the new fiscal year. • Continued acceptance and growth of the MiniMed 670G system, the first hybrid closed loop system in the world. The system features our most advanced SmartGuard algorithm, which enables improved glucose control with reduced user input. The MiniMed 670G system received U.S. FDA approval during the second quarter of fiscal year 2017 and launched in the U.S. in June 2017. • Changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs, along with payor coverage of the MiniMed 670G system. • Continued acceptance and growth of the MiniMed 640G system with SmartGuard Suspend before Low technology, which has launched in Europe, Australia, and select countries in Latin America and Asia, and the MiniMed 620G system, the first integrated system customized for the Japanese market. The MiniMed 640G system received regulatory approval in Japan in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018. • Continued acceptance and growth of Guardian Connect CGM system which displays information directly to a smartphone. This system received CE mark in 2016 and has launched both internationally and now in the U.S. after receiving FDA approval in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018. • Continued partnership with UnitedHealthcare as the preferred in-network provider of insulin pumps, giving their members access to our advanced diabetes technology and comprehensive support services. • Continued partnership and growth of our outcomes-based agreement with Aetna, where a component of our pump reimbursement is based on successfully meeting clinical improvement thresholds as part of our value-based healthcare solutions. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES We have used various accounting policies to prepare the consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our significant accounting policies are disclosed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in "