Item 2. in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We purchase many of the components and raw materials used in manufacturing these products from numerous suppliers in various countries. For reasons of quality assurance, sole source availability, or cost effectiveness, certain components and raw materials are available only from a sole supplier. We work closely with our suppliers to help ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. Due to the U.S. FDA’s requirements regarding manufacturing of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials. Generally, we have been able to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials and components. However, a sudden or unexpected reduction or interruption in supply, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could adversely affect our operations. We have reporting and disclosure requirements related to the use of certain minerals, known as "conflict minerals" (tantalum, tin, tungsten (or their ores), and gold) which are mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries. Pursuant to these requirements, we are required to report on Form SD the procedures we employ to determine the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from those minerals. There are costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence in regards to the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, in addition to the cost of remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. In addition, the implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products. As of the date of our conflict minerals report for the 2015 calendar year, we were unable to obtain the necessary information on conflict minerals from all of our suppliers and were unable to determine that all of our products are conflict free. We may continue to face difficulties in gathering this information in the future. We may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we implement. Working Capital Practices Our goal is to carry sufficient levels of inventory to ensure adequate supply of raw materials from suppliers and meet the product delivery needs of our customers. We also provide payment terms to customers in the normal course of business and rights to return product under warranty to meet the operational demands of our customers. Employees On April 29, 2016 , we employed more than 88,000 full-time employees. Our employees are vital to our success. We believe we have been successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel in a highly competitive labor market due to our competitive compensation and benefits, and our rewarding work environment. Seasonality Worldwide sales, including U.S. sales, do not reflect a significant degree of seasonality; however, the number of medical procedures incorporating Medtronic products is generally lower during summer months, due to summer vacation schedules in the northern hemisphere, particularly in European countries. In addition, pulse oximetry sales can be impacted by flu season. Government Regulation and Other Considerations Our products are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including the U.S. FDA and similar agencies outside the U.S. To varying degrees, each of these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, and distribution of our products. Our business is also affected by patient privacy laws, cost containment initiatives and environmental health and safety laws and regulations. The primary laws and regulations that affect our business are described below. 9 Table of Contents The laws applicable to us are subject to change and are subject to evolving interpretations. If a governmental authority were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, Medtronic and its officers and employees could be subject to severe criminal and civil penalties including substantial fines and damages, and exclusion from participation as a supplier of product to beneficiaries covered by Medicare or Medicaid. Product Approval Processes Authorization to commercially distribute a new medical device or technology in the U.S. is generally received in one of two ways. The first, known as pre-market notification or the 510(k) process, requires us to demonstrate that our new medical device or technology is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed medical device or technology. In this process, we must submit data that supports our equivalence claim. If human clinical data is required, it must be gathered in compliance with U.S. FDA investigational device exemption regulations. We must receive an order from the U.S. FDA finding substantial equivalence to another legally marketed medical device or technology before we can commercially distribute the new medical device or technology. Modifications to cleared medical devices or technologies can be made without using the 510(k) process if the changes do not significantly affect safety or effectiveness. Minimally Invasive Therapies Group products are generally subject to the pre-market notification process. A very small number of our devices are exempt from pre-market review. The second, more rigorous process, known as pre-market approval (PMA), requires us to independently demonstrate that the new medical device is safe and effective. We do this by collecting data regarding design, materials, bench and animal testing, and human clinical data for the medical device. The U.S. FDA will authorize commercial distribution if it determines there is reasonable assurance that the medical device is safe and effective. This determination is based on the benefit outweighing the risk for the population intended to be treated with the device. This process is much more detailed, time-consuming, and expensive than the 510(k) process. A third, seldom used, process for approval exists for humanitarian use devices, intended for patient populations of less than 4,000 patients per year in the U.S. This exemption is similar to the PMA process; however, a full showing of product effectiveness from large clinical trials is not required. The threshold for approving these products is probable benefit and safety. Many countries outside the U.S. to which we export medical devices also subject such medical devices and technologies to their own regulatory requirements. Frequently, regulatory approval may first be obtained in a country outside of the U.S. prior to application in the U.S. due to differing regulatory requirements; however, other countries, such as China for example, require approval in the country of origin first. Most countries outside of the U.S. require that product approvals be recertified on a regular basis, generally every five years. The recertification process requires that we evaluate any device or technology changes and any new regulations or standards relevant to the device or technology and, where needed, conduct appropriate testing to document continued compliance. Where recertification applications are required, they must be approved in order to continue selling our products in those countries. Because export control and economic sanctions laws and regulations are complex and constantly changing, it is possible that laws and regulations may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner materially impacting our ability to sell or distribute products. In the E.U., a single regulatory approval process exists, and conformity with the legal requirements is represented by the CE Mark. To obtain a CE Mark, defined products must meet minimum standards of performance, safety, and quality (i.e., the essential requirements), and then, according to their classification, comply with one or more of a selection of conformity assessment routes. A notified body assesses the quality management systems of the manufacturer and the product conformity to the essential and other requirements within the medical device directive. Medtronic is subject to inspection by notified bodies for compliance. The competent authorities of the E.U. countries, generally in the form of their ministries or departments of health, oversee the clinical research for medical devices and are responsible for market surveillance of products once they are placed on the market. We are required to report device failures and injuries potentially related to product use to these authorities in a timely manner. Various penalties exist for non-compliance with the laws transcribing the medical device directives. We anticipate a new Medical Device Regulation to be published by the European Union in 2016, and it is likely to impose additional premarket and postmarket requirements. To be sold in Japan, most medical devices must undergo thorough safety examinations and demonstrate medical efficacy before they are granted approval, or “shonin.” The Japanese government, through the Ministry of Health, Labour, and Welfare (MHLW), regulates medical devices under the Pharmaceutical Affairs Law (PAL). Oversight for medical devices is conducted with participation by the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA), a quasi-government organization performing many of the review functions for MHLW. Penalties for a company’s noncompliance with PAL could be severe, including revocation or suspension of a company’s business license and criminal sanctions. MHLW and PMDA also assess the quality management systems of the manufacturer and the product conformity to the requirements of the PAL. Medtronic is subject to inspection for compliance by these agencies. Our global regulatory environment is becoming increasingly stringent, and unpredictable, which could increase the time, cost and complexity of obtaining regulatory approvals for our products. Several countries that did not have regulatory requirements for medical devices have established such requirements in recent years and other countries have expanded, or plan to expand, on 10 Table of Contents existing regulations. Certain regulators are requiring local clinical data in addition to global clinical data. While harmonization of global regulations has been pursued, requirements continue to differ significantly among countries. We expect this global regulatory environment will continue to evolve, which could impact our ability to obtain future approvals for our products, or could increase the cost and time to obtain such approvals in the future. There can be no assurance that any new medical devices we develop will be approved in a timely or cost-effective manner or approved at all. Ongoing U.S. FDA Regulations Both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under U.S. FDA regulations. The U.S. FDA reviews design and manufacturing practices, labeling and record keeping, and manufacturers’ required reports of adverse experiences and other information to identify potential problems with marketed medical devices. We are also subject to periodic inspection by the U.S. FDA for compliance with the U.S. FDA’s quality system regulations, which govern the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging, and servicing of all finished medical devices intended for human use. In addition, the U.S. FDA and other U.S. regulatory bodies (including the Federal Trade Commission, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, the U. S. Department of Justice, and various state Attorneys General) monitor the manner in which we promote and advertise our products. Although surgeons are permitted to use their medical judgment to employ medical devices for indications other than those cleared or approved by the U.S. FDA, the U.S. FDA has prohibited manufacturers from promoting products for such “off-label” uses, and has taken the position that manufacturers can only market their products for cleared or approved uses. If the U.S. FDA were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the U.S. FDA could require us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, or ban such medical devices. The U.S. FDA may also impose operating restrictions, enjoin and/or restrain certain conduct resulting in violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices, including a hold on approving new devices until issues are resolved to its satisfaction, and assess civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees, or us. The U.S. FDA may also recommend prosecution to the U. S. Department of Justice. Conduct giving rise to civil or criminal penalties may also form the basis for private civil litigation by third-party payers or other persons allegedly harmed by our conduct. In April 2015, we entered into a consent decree with the U.S. FDA relating to our Neuromodulation business’ SynchroMed drug infusion system and the Neuromodulation quality system.  The consent decree requires the Company to complete certain corrections and enhancements to the SynchroMed pump and the Neuromodulation quality system.  The consent decree limits the Company's ability to manufacture and distribute the SynchroMed drug infusion system, unless specific conditions are met.  The agreement does not require the retrieval of any of the Company’s products, but the Company must retain a third-party expert to inspect the Neuromodulation quality system and to provide a certification that the system complies with the requirements of the consent decree.  Once this certification is accepted by the U.S. FDA, and a U.S. FDA inspection is successfully completed, the limitations on manufacturer and distribution of SynchroMed pumps will be lifted.  Thereafter, the Company must submit periodic audit reports to the U.S. FDA to ensure ongoing compliance with the consent decree. In June 2016, TYRX, Inc. received a Warning Letter from the U.S. FDA following an inspection at the TYRX facility in Monmouth Junction, New Jersey.  The Company is taking action to address the Warning Letter and has submitted a response to the U.S. FDA. Governmental Trade Regulations The sale and shipment of our products and services across international borders, as well as the purchase of components and products from international sources, subject us to extensive governmental trade regulations. A variety of laws and regulations, both in the U.S. and in the countries in which we transact business, apply to the sale, shipment and provision of goods, services and technology across international borders. Because we are subject to extensive regulations in the countries in which we operate, we are subject to the risk that laws and regulations could change in a way that would expose us to additional costs, penalties or liabilities. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, our import and export activities. The U.S. FDA, in cooperation with U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), administers controls over the import of medical devices into the U.S. The CBP imposes its own regulatory requirements on the import of our products, including inspection and possible sanctions for noncompliance. Medtronic is also subject to foreign trade controls administered by several U.S. government agencies, including the Bureau of Industry and Security within the Commerce Department and the Office of Foreign Assets Control within the Treasury Department. We import raw materials, components and finished products into the countries in which we transact business. We act as the importer of record in many instances, but we also sell and ship goods to third parties who are themselves responsible for complying with applicable trade laws and regulations. In our role as importer of record, we are directly responsible for complying with customs laws and regulations concerning the importation of our raw materials, components and 11 Table of Contents finished products. If applicable government agencies were to determine that we or such third parties were not in compliance with applicable U.S. FDA or customs laws and regulations when engaging in cross-border transactions involving our products, we may be subject to civil or criminal enforcement action, and varying degrees of liability, depending on the nature of the violation and the extent of our culpability. In addition, such determinations may cause supply chain disruptions and delays in the distribution of our products that impact our business activities. Many countries, including the U.S., control the export and re-export of goods, technology and services for reasons including public health, national security, regional stability, antiterrorism policies and other reasons. In certain circumstances, approval from governmental authorities may be required before goods, technology or services are exported or re-exported to certain destinations, to certain end-users and for certain end-uses. In addition, international sales of our medical devices that have not received U.S. FDA approval are subject to U.S. FDA export requirements. Some governments may also impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons or entities. In addition to our need to comply with such regulations in connection with our direct export activities, we also sell and provide goods, technology and services to agents, representatives and distributors who may export such items to customers and end-users. If applicable government agencies were to determine that we, or the third parties through which we export goods, were not in compliance with applicable export control or economic sanctions laws and regulations when engaging in transactions involving our products, we may be subject to civil or criminal enforcement action, and varying degrees of liability, dependent upon the nature of the violation and the extent of our culpability. Similarly, such determinations may cause disruption or delays in the distribution and sales of our products, or result in restrictions being placed upon our international distribution and sales of products which may materially impact our business activities. Anti-Boycott Laws Under U.S. laws and regulations, U.S. companies and their controlled-in-fact subsidiaries and affiliates outside the U.S are prohibited from participating or agreeing to participate in unsanctioned foreign boycotts in connection with certain business activities, including the sale, purchase, transfer, shipping or financing of goods or services within the U.S. or between the U.S. and a foreign country. Currently, the U.S. considers the Arab League boycott of Israel to constitute an unsanctioned foreign boycott. We are responsible for ensuring we comply with the requirements of U.S. anti-boycott laws for all transactions in which we are involved. If we, or certain third parties through which we sell or provide goods or services, are determined to have violated U.S. anti-boycott laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal enforcement action, and varying degrees of liability, dependent upon the nature of the violation and the extent of our culpability. Penalties for any violations of anti-boycott laws and regulations could include criminal penalties and civil sanctions such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from government contracts, loss of export privileges and the denial of certain tax benefits, including foreign tax credits, and outside U.S subsidiary deferrals. Data Privacy and Security Laws and Regulations The collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure and disposal of sensitive personal information are regulated at the U.S. federal and state, international and industry levels. U.S. federal and state laws protect the confidentiality of certain patient health information, including patient medical records, and restrict the use and disclosure of patient health information by health care providers. For example, the U.S. FDA has issued guidance advising manufacturers to review their cybersecurity practices and policies to assure that appropriate safeguards are in place to prevent unauthorized access or modification to their medical devices or compromise of the security of the hospital network that may be connected to the device. Moreover, in April 2003, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) published patient privacy rules under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and, in April 2005, published security rules for protected health information. The HIPAA privacy and security rules govern the use, disclosure, and security of protected health information by “Covered Entities,” which are health care providers that submit electronic claims, health plans, and health care clearinghouses. In 2009, Congress passed the HITECH Act, which modified certain provisions of the HIPAA privacy and security rules for Covered Entities and their Business Associates (which is anyone that performs a service on behalf of a Covered Entity involving the use or disclosure of protected health information and is not a member of the Covered Entity’s workforce). These included directing HHS to publish more specific security standards, and increasing breach notification requirements, as well as tightening certain aspects of the privacy rules. HHS published the final versions of these new rules in January 2013, and Covered Entities and Business Associates were expected to be in compliance by September 2013. In addition, the HITECH Act provided that Business Associates will now be subject to the same security requirements as Covered Entities, and that with regard to both the security and privacy rule, Business Associates will be subject to direct enforcement by HHS, including civil and criminal liability, just as Covered Entities are. In the past, HIPAA has generally affected us indirectly, but these modifications increase the potential for enforcement action against us as a Business Associate. Medtronic is generally not a Covered Entity, except for our Diabetes business, Medtronic Monitoring, Inc. and our health insurance plans. Medtronic only operates as a Business Associate to Covered Entities in a limited number of instances. In those cases, the patient data that we receive and analyze may include protected health information. A number of states have also adopted laws and regulations that may affect our privacy and security practices, such as state laws that govern the use, disclosure and protection of social security numbers or that are designed to protect credit card account data. 12 Table of Contents State and local authorities increasingly focus on the importance of protecting individuals from identity theft, with a significant number of states enacting laws requiring businesses to notify individuals of security breaches involving personal information. State consumer protection laws may also apply to privacy and security practices related to personally identifiable information, including information related to consumers and care providers. We are also impacted by the privacy requirements of countries outside the United States. Privacy standards in Europe and Asia are becoming increasingly strict. Enforcement action and financial penalties related to privacy in the E.U. are growing, and new laws and restrictions are being passed. In April of 2016, the European Council and the Parliament adopted the new General Data Protection Regulation, which sets demanding requirements for the management of individually identifiable data in the E.U. The management of cross border transfers of information among and outside of E.U. member countries is becoming more complex, which may complicate our clinical research activities, as well as product offerings that involve transmission or use of clinical data. China and Russia have passed so-called “data localization” laws, which require multi-national companies that store certain individually identifiable data on their citizens to maintain that data on servers located in their country. Restrictions on transfer or processing of that data may apply as well. The restrictions may complicate our operations in those countries, adding complexity and additional management and oversight needs, and the Chinese and Russian governments are still clarifying how they will apply and enforce these laws. Cost Containment Initiatives Government and private sector initiatives to limit the growth of health care costs, including price regulation, competitive pricing, bidding and tender mechanics, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments, and managed-care arrangements, are continuing in many countries where we do business, including the U.S. These changes are causing the marketplace to put increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical devices and therapies. Government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, private health care insurance, and managed-care plans have attempted to control costs by limiting the amount of reimbursement they will pay for particular procedures or treatments, tying reimbursement to outcomes, shifting to population health management, and other mechanisms designed to constrain utilization and contain costs. Hospitals, which purchase implants, are also seeking to reduce costs through a variety of mechanisms, including, for example, creating centralized purchasing functions that set pricing and in some cases limiting the number of vendors that can participate in the purchasing program. Hospitals are also aligning interests with physicians through employment and other arrangements, such as gainsharing, where a hospital agrees with physicians to share any realized cost savings resulting from the physicians’ collective change in practice patterns such as standardization of devices where medically appropriate. This has created an increasing level of price sensitivity among customers for our products. Some third-party payers must also approve coverage and set reimbursement levels for new or innovative devices or therapies before they will reimburse health care providers who use the medical devices or therapies. Even though a new medical device may have been cleared for commercial distribution, we may find limited demand for the device until coverage and sufficient reimbursement levels have been obtained from governmental and private third-party payers. In addition, some private third-party payers require that certain procedures or that the use of certain products be authorized in advance as a condition of reimbursement. International examples of cost containment initiatives and health care reforms in markets significant to Medtronic's business include Japan, where the government reviews reimbursement rate benchmarks every two years, which may significantly reduce reimbursement for procedures using our medical devices or deny coverage for those procedures. As a result of our manufacturing efficiencies, cost controls and other cost-savings initiatives, we believe we are well-positioned to respond to changes resulting from the worldwide trend toward cost-containment; however, uncertainty remains as to the nature of any future legislation, new or changed coverage and reimbursement government or private payer policies or decisions, or other reforms, making it difficult for us to predict the potential impact of cost-containment trends on future operating results. Regulations Governing Reimbursement The delivery of our devices is subject to regulation by HHS and comparable state and non-U.S. agencies responsible for reimbursement and regulation of health care items and services. U.S. laws and regulations are imposed primarily in connection with the Medicare and Medicaid programs, as well as the government’s interest in regulating the quality and cost of health care. Other governments also impose regulations in connection with their health care reimbursement programs and the delivery of health care items and services. U.S. federal health care laws apply when we or customers submit claims for items or services that are reimbursed under Medicare, Medicaid, or other federally-funded health care programs. The principal U.S. federal laws include: (1) the Anti-kickback Statute, which prohibits offers to pay or receive remuneration of any kind for the purpose of purchasing, ordering, recommending making referrals to items or services reimbursable by a federal health care program; (2) the False Claims Act which prohibits the submission of false or otherwise improper claims for payment to a federally-funded health care program, including claims resulting from a violation of the Anti-kickback Statute; (3) the Stark law, which prohibits physicians from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients 13 Table of Contents to a provider that bills these programs for the provision of certain designated health services if the physician (or a member of the physician’s immediate family) has a financial relationship with that provider; and (4) health care fraud statutes that prohibit false statements and improper claims to any third-party payer. There are often similar state false claims, anti-kickback, and anti-self-referral and insurance laws that apply to state-funded Medicaid and other health care programs and private third-party payers. Insurance companies can also bring a private cause of action for treble damages against a manufacturer for a pattern of causing false claims to be filed under the federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, or RICO. In addition, as a manufacturer the U.S. FDA-approved devices reimbursable by federal healthcare programs, are subject to the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which requires us to annually report certain payments and other transfers of value we make to U.S.-licensed physicians or U.S. teaching hospitals. Further, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) can be used to prosecute companies in the U.S. for arrangements with physicians, or other parties outside the U.S. if the physician or party is a government official of another country and the arrangement violates the law of that country. The laws and regulations of health care goods and services that are applicable to us, including those described above, are subject to evolving interpretations and enforcement discretion. If a governmental authority were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we and our officers and employees could be subject to severe criminal and civil financial penalties, including, for example, exclusion from participation as a supplier of product to beneficiaries covered by Medicare. Any failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to reimbursement and health care goods and services could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and cash flows. Our profitability and operations are subject to risks relating to changes in legislative, regulatory and reimbursement policies and decisions as well as changes to private payer reimbursement coverage and payment decisions and policies. Implementation of further legislative or administrative reforms to the reimbursement system in the U.S. and abroad, or adverse decisions relating to our products by administrators of these systems in coverage or reimbursement, could significantly reduce reimbursement or result in the denial of coverage, which could have an impact on the acceptance of and demand for our products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for them. Environmental Health and Safety Laws We are also subject to various environmental health and safety laws and regulations both within and outside the U.S. Similar to other companies in our industry, our manufacturing and other operations involve the use and transportation of substances regulated under environmental health and safety laws including those related to the transportation of hazardous materials. To the best of our knowledge at this time, we do not expect that compliance with environmental protection laws will have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, and/or cash flows. Litigation Risks Patent Litigation We operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. Patent litigation can result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent the manufacture and sale of affected products or result in significant royalty payments in order to continue selling the products. At any given time, we are involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent litigation incidents to our business, we believe the outcomes associated with this type of litigation could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. For additional information, see “