Management’s Discussion and Analysis, we present certain financial measures that we use to evaluate the operational performance of the Company and as a basis for strategic planning; however, such financial measures are not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (U.S. GAAP). These financial measures are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" and are intended to supplement, and should not be considered as superior to, financial measures presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We generally use non-GAAP financial measures to facilitate management's review of the operational performance of the Company and as a basis for strategic planning. We believe that non-GAAP financial measures provide information useful to investors in understanding the Company's underlying operational performance and trends and may facilitate comparisons with the performance of other companies in the medical technologies industry. As presented in the GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations section below, our non-GAAP financial measures exclude the impact of certain charges or benefits that contribute to or reduce earnings and that may affect financial trends, and include certain charges or benefits that result from transactions or events that we believe may or may not recur with similar materiality or impact to our operations in future periods (Non-GAAP Adjustments). In the event there is a Non-GAAP Adjustment recognized in our operating results, the tax cost or benefit attributable to that item is separately calculated and reported. Because the effective rate can be significantly impacted by the Non-GAAP Adjustments that take place during the period, we often refer to our tax rate using both the effective rate and the non-GAAP nominal tax rate (Non-GAAP Nominal Tax Rate). The Non-GAAP Nominal Tax Rate is calculated as the income tax provision, adjusted for the impact of Non-GAAP Adjustments, as a percentage of income before income taxes, excluding Non-GAAP Adjustments. Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure calculated by subtracting property, plant, and equipment additions from operating cash flows. Refer to the “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations," "Income Taxes," and "Free Cash Flow" sections for reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 32 Table of Contents EXECUTIVE LEVEL OVERVIEW Medtronic is among the world's largest medical technology, services, and solutions companies - alleviating pain, restoring health, and extending life for millions of people around the world. Our primary products include those for cardiac rhythm disorders, cardiovascular disease, advanced and general surgical care, respiratory and monitoring solutions, renal care, neurological disorders, spinal conditions and musculoskeletal trauma, urological and digestive disorders, and ear, nose, and throat and diabetes conditions. The global healthcare system is facing an unprecedented challenge as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic ("COVID-19" or the "pandemic"). The Company’s top priority during this pandemic has been to ensure the health and well-being of our more than 90,000 employees and their families around the globe. In addition, the Company is focused on fulfilling our mission and getting our products and therapies to those who need them by rapidly expanding the production and distribution of critical products in the fight against COVID-19, including dramatically increased ventilator production and partnering with key government authorities to allocate our ventilators to the communities that need them most. In fiscal year 2020, sales of Airway and Ventilator products represented approximately ten percent of the Minimally Invasive Therapies Group's net sales. Medtronic has been supporting our communities during this time of need by, among other things, providing direct support in the form of donations of certain products, and we made an $80 million contribution to the Medtronic Foundation during fiscal year 2020, which has provided direct financial assistance to communities around the world. COVID-19 is having, and will likely continue to have, an adverse impact on significant aspects of our Company and business, including the demand for our products, our operations, supply chains and distribution systems, and our ability to research and develop and bring to market new products and services. Almost all of our businesses have been affected by a decline in procedure volumes as a result of COVID-19 as hospital resources have been diverted to fight the pandemic, and many government agencies in conjunction with healthcare systems have made decisions to postpone many deferrable and semi-deferrable procedures that use our products. In addition, some people are avoiding seeking treatment for non-COVID-19 emergency procedures, resulting in an impact to those emergent product lines. It is not possible to accurately predict the timing of a broad resumption of deferrable medical procedures and, to the extent individuals and hospital systems continue to de-prioritize, delay or cancel these procedures, our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations would continue to be negatively affected. Further, COVID-19 is straining hospital systems around the world, resulting in adverse financial impacts to those systems which has resulted in and may continue to result in reduced future expenditures for capital equipment and other products and services we provide. The Company has experienced recent changes in customer buying patterns as customers have prioritized preservation of cash and reduced their holdings of certain purchased product inventories, especially in more deferrable procedure categories. As COVID-19 continues to impact hospital systems and other customers, we may encounter higher inventory levels which could result in inventory obsolescence due to excess and/or expired inventory. Additionally, the pandemic's impact on our customers may adversely impact the collectability of our current and future accounts receivable balance. COVID-19 has also disrupted and may continue to disrupt our product launches for our recently approved products and may negatively impact the regulatory approval of new products. Clinical trials generally have suspended enrollment due to facility closures and governmental restrictions, which we expect will delay the results from those clinical trials and will impact our ability to timely bring new products to market. In addition, a significant number of our global suppliers, vendors, and distributors have been adversely affected by COVID-19, including an adverse impact on the ability of their employees to get to their places of work and maintain the continuity of their on-site operations. Therefore, although we work closely with our suppliers to try to ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability, the supply of certain components, raw materials, and services has been and may continue to be interrupted, in certain instances, as a direct result of COVID-19. As of the June 19, 2020 filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is in the middle of our first quarter of fiscal year 2021, we are starting to see signs of medical procedure recovery in certain geographies and across certain therapies.  We expect medical procedure recovery rates to vary by therapy and country, and to be impacted by COVID-19 case volumes, hospital and clinical occupancy and staffing levels, patient’s willingness to re-book previously deferred procedures, travel restrictions, transportation limitations, quarantine restrictions, and potential COVID-19 resurgence. 33 Table of Contents The following is a summary of revenue, diluted earnings per share, and cash flow for fiscal years 2020 and 2019: GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations The tables below present reconciliations of our Non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP for fiscal years 2020 and 2019: Fiscal year ended April 24, 2020 (in millions, except per share data) Income Before Income Taxes Income Tax (Benefit) Provision Net Income Attributable to Medtronic Diluted EPS (1) Effective Tax Rate GAAP $ 4,055 $ (751) $ 4,789 $ 3.54 (18.5) % Non-GAAP Adjustments: Restructuring and associated costs (2) 441 69 372 0.28 15.6 Acquisition-related items (3) 66 13 53 0.04 19.7 Certain litigation charges 313 59 254 0.19 18.8 (Gain)/loss on minority investments (4) 19 (3) 22 0.02 (15.8) Debt tender premium and other charges (5) 406 86 320 0.24 21.2 Medical device regulations (6) 48 6 42 0.03 12.5 Exit of businesses (7) 52 12 40 0.03 23.1 IPR&D charges (8) 25 3 22 0.02 12.0 Contribution to Medtronic Foundation 80 18 62 0.05 22.5 Amortization of intangible assets 1,756 284 1,472 1.09 16.2 Certain tax adjustments, net (9) — 1,242 (1,242) (0.92) — Non-GAAP $ 7,261 $ 1,038 $ 6,206 $ 4.59 14.3 % 34 Table of Contents Fiscal year ended April 26, 2019 (in millions, except per share data) Income Before Income Taxes Income Tax (Benefit) Provision Net Income Attributable to Medtronic Diluted EPS (1) Effective Tax Rate GAAP $ 5,197 $ 547 $ 4,631 $ 3.41 10.5 % Non-GAAP Adjustments: Restructuring and associated costs (2) 407 66 341 0.25 16.2 Acquisition-related items (3) 88 16 72 0.05 18.2 Certain litigation charges 166 24 142 0.10 14.5 (Gain)/loss on minority investments (4) (62) 3 (65) (0.05) (4.8) Debt tender premium and other charges (10) 457 113 344 0.25 24.7 Exit of businesses (7) 149 31 118 0.09 20.8 IPR&D charges (8) 58 9 49 0.04 15.5 Amortization of intangible assets 1,764 267 1,497 1.10 15.1 Certain tax adjustments, net (11) — 40 (40) (0.03) — Non-GAAP $ 8,224 $ 1,116 $ 7,089 $ 5.22 13.6 % (1) Amounts in this column have been intentionally rounded to the nearest $0.01 and, therefore, may not sum. (2) Associated costs include costs incurred as a direct result of the restructuring program, such as salaries for employees supporting the program and consulting expenses. (3) The charges primarily include costs incurred in connection with legacy-Covidien enterprise resource planning deployment activities, business combination related costs, and changes in fair value of contingent consideration. (4) We exclude unrealized and realized gains and losses on our minority investments as we do not believe these components of income or expense have a direct correlation to our ongoing or future business operations. (5) The charges, which include $413 million recognized in interest expense and ($7 million) recognized in other operating expense, net , primarily relates to the early redemption of approximately $5.2 billion of debt. (6) The charges represent incremental costs of complying with the new European Union medical device regulations for previously registered products and primarily include charges for contractors supporting the project and other direct third-party expenses. (7) The net charges relate to the exit of businesses and are primarily comprised of intangible asset impairments. (8) The charges represent acquired in-process research and development (IPR&D) in connection with asset acquisitions and charges recognized in connection with the impairment of IPR&D assets. (9) The net benefit primarily relates to the release of a valuation allowance on certain net operating losses, the impact of an intercompany sale of intellectual property, and the impact of tax reform in Switzerland and the United States. (10) The charges, which include $485 million recognized in interest expense and ($28 million) recognized in other operating expense, net, primarily relates to the early redemption of approximately $6.4 billion of Medtronic Inc. and CIFSA senior notes. (11) The net benefit relates to the impacts of U.S. tax reform, along with intercompany legal entity restructuring, and the finalization of certain income tax aspects of the Divestiture. 35 Table of Contents NET SALES Segment and Division The table below illustrates net sales by segment and division for fiscal years 2020 and 2019: Net Sales by Fiscal Year Percent Change (in millions) 2020 2019 2020 Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure $ 5,141 $ 5,849 (12) % Coronary & Structural Heart 3,541 3,730 (5) Aortic, Peripheral & Venous 1,786 1,926 (7) Cardiac and Vascular Group 10,468 11,505 (9) Surgical Innovations 5,513 5,753 (4) Respiratory, Gastrointestinal, & Renal 2,839 2,725 4 Minimally Invasive Therapies Group 8,352 8,478 (1) Brain Therapies 2,922 2,938 (1) Spine 2,503 2,654 (6) Specialty Therapies 1,193 1,307 (9) Pain Therapies 1,107 1,284 (14) Restorative Therapies Group 7,725 8,183 (6) Diabetes Group 2,368 2,391 (1) Total $ 28,913 $ 30,557 (5) % The decrease in net sales for fiscal year 2020 as compared to fiscal year 2019 was primarily attributable to the decline in procedure volume and, to a lesser extent, changing customer buying patterns resulting from the impact of COVID-19 in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020. Changing customer buying patterns were primarily experienced in the Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure business, and to a lesser extent in the Restorative Therapies Group with our Biologics business in Spine, and our Pain Therapies business. We remain focused against our three growth strategies: therapy innovation, globalization, and economic value. We continue to allocate our capital to higher growth markets and new opportunities that create competitive advantages and capitalize on the long-term trends in healthcare: namely, the desire to improve clinical outcomes; the growing demand for expanded access to care; and the optimization of cost and efficiency within healthcare systems. We continue to see an acceleration in our innovation cycle within our therapy innovation growth strategy. Our segments invest in a pipeline of groundbreaking medical technology. We remain focused on our globalization strategy as our emerging markets continue to benefit from geographic diversification, with balanced results around the world. Finally, in our third growth strategy, economic value, we continue to execute our value-based healthcare signature programs and develop unique, value-based healthcare solutions that directly link our therapies to improving outcomes while delivering improved economic value to 36 Table of Contents the payers and providers. We remain focused on leading the shift to healthcare payment systems that reward value and improved patient outcomes over volume. Segment and Market Geography The tables below include net sales by market geography for each of our segments for fiscal years 2020 and 2019: U.S. (1), (2) Non-U.S. Developed Markets (1), (3) Emerging Markets (1), (4) (in millions) Fiscal Year 2020 Fiscal Year 2019 % Change Fiscal Year 2020 Fiscal Year 2019 % Change Fiscal Year 2020 Fiscal Year 2019 % Change Cardiac and Vascular Group $ 5,062 $ 5,750 (12) % $ 3,519 $ 3,767 (7) % $ 1,887 $ 1,988 (5) % Minimally Invasive Therapies Group 3,532 3,630 (3) 3,169 3,250 (2) 1,651 1,598 3 Restorative Therapies Group 5,122 5,478 (6) 1,659 1,759 (6) 945 946 — Diabetes Group 1,204 1,336 (10) 940 855 10 224 200 12 Total $ 14,919 $ 16,194 (8) % $ 9,287 $ 9,631 (4) % $ 4,707 $ 4,732 (1) % (1) The data in this schedule has been intentionally rounded to the nearest million and, therefore, may not sum. (2) U.S. includes the United States and U.S. territories. (3) Non-U.S. developed markets include Japan, Australia, New Zealand, Korea, Canada, and the countries within Western Europe. (4) Emerging markets include the countries of the Middle East, Africa, Latin America, Eastern Europe, and the countries of Asia that are not included in the non-U.S. developed markets, as defined above. Net sales decreases in the U.S., non-U.S. developed markets, and emerging markets for fiscal year 2020 as compared to fiscal year 2019 were primarily attributable to the impact of COVID-19 in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020 driven by a combination of deferred procedures and reduced demand for certain products as hospital systems prioritized treatment of COVID-19 patients and customers sought to preserve cash. Net sales decreases in non-U.S. developed markets for fiscal year 2020 were partially offset by growth in the Diabetes group due to strong demand for supplies internationally. Net sales decreases in non-U.S. developed markets were led by Australia and New Zealand as well as Western Europe, partially offset by growth in Korea. Net sales decreases in emerging markets were led by China, partially offset by strong performance in Eastern Europe and Southeast Asia. Currency had an unfavorable impact on net sales in non-U.S. developed markets and emerging markets of $418 million for fiscal year 2020. For the nine months ended January 24, 2020, which was prior to the impact of COVID-19, net sales increased one percent and ten percent in the U.S. and emerging markets, respectively, while net sales remained flat in non-U.S. development markets. Looking ahead, we expect COVID-19 to continue to have a significant impact on our business, noting that it is not possible to accurately predict the length and severity of the pandemic. Additionally, our segments are likely to face competitive product launches and pricing pressure, geographic macro-economic risks, reimbursement challenges, impacts from changes in the mix of our product offerings, the timing of product registration approvals, replacement cycle challenges, and fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Additionally, changes in procedural volumes could affect our Cardiac and Vascular, Minimally Invasive Therapies, and Restorative Therapies Groups. 37 Table of Contents Cardiac and Vascular Group The Cardiac and Vascular Group’s products include pacemakers, insertable cardiac monitors, cardiac resynchronization therapy devices (CRT-D), implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICD), leads and delivery systems, ventricular assist systems, ablation products, electrophysiology catheters, products for the treatment of atrial fibrillation, information systems for the management of patients with Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure devices, products designed to reduce surgical site infections, coronary and peripheral stents and related delivery systems, balloons and related delivery systems, endovascular stent graft systems, heart valve replacement technologies, cardiac tissue ablation systems, and open heart and coronary bypass grafting surgical products. The Cardiac and Vascular Group also includes Care Management Services and Cath Lab Managed Services (CLMS) within the Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure division. The Cardiac and Vascular Group's net sales for fiscal year 2020 were $10.5 billion, a decrease of 9 percent as compared to fiscal year 2019. Currency had an unfavorable impact on net sales for fiscal year 2020 of $162 million. The Cardiac and Vascular Group's net sales decline for fiscal year 2020, as compared to fiscal year 2019, was experienced across all divisions and reflected the impact of COVID-19, specifically a significant decline in deferrable procedure volumes and reduced demand for certain of our products experienced in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020 as hospital systems prioritized treatment of COVID-19 patients. The graphs below illustrate percent of Cardiac and Vascular Group net sales by division for fiscal years 2020 and 2019: Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure (CRHF) net sales for fiscal year 2020 were $5.1 billion, a decrease of 12 percent as compared to fiscal year 2019. Declines were experienced in ICDs, CRT-Ds, LVADs, insertable cardiac monitoring systems, pacemakers, and products for the treatment of atrial fibrillation as a result of a global slowdown in procedural volumes experienced in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020 related to COVID-19. Additionally, Arrhythmia Management products were impacted by changing customer buying patterns during the fourth quarter resulting from COVID-19. While the overall Pacing business declined, the Micra transcatheter pacing system experienced growth during the year resulting from continued adoption and the third quarter launch of Micra AV. Additionally, LVAD headwinds resulting from competitive pressures in the U.S continue to negatively impact the division's sales. Coronary & Structural Heart (CSH) net sales for fiscal year 2020 were $3.5 billion, a decrease of 5 percent as compared to fiscal year 2019. Procedural volume declines related to COVID-19 resulted in decreased sales across the division, with the exception of transcatheter aortic valves which experienced sales growth during the year, and guide catheters which were flat compared to fiscal year 2019. Sales growth in transcatheter aortic valves was driven by expansion of the Evolut Pro+ platform into the low risk patient population. Aortic, Peripheral & Venous (APV) net sales for fiscal year 2020 were $1.8 billion, a decrease of 7 percent as compared to fiscal year 2019, which was also driven by COVID-19 related declines in procedure rates. Declines were experienced across all products, with the exception of thoracic stent grafts and the VenaSeal vein closure system. Growth in thoracic stent grafts is a result of continued momentum from the launch of the Valiant Navion thoracic stent graft system. Additionally, net sales of the division continue to be impacted by declines in drug-coated balloons due to uncertainty around Paclitaxel in the market. In addition to the general impacts of COVID-19 on our Company as described in the Executive Level Overview, looking ahead, we expect our Cardiac and Vascular Group could be affected by the following: • Given the uncertain progression of COVID-19 around the world, it is not possible to accurately predict the timing of a broad resumption of deferrable medical procedures overall as the speed of recovery may vary by therapy and geography. COVID-19 case volumes and potential resurgence will play a role. Therapies that might be considered more deferrable include AF Solutions, EndoVenous, and Diagnostics while more urgent therapies include Pacing, Aortic, Coronary, and Cardiac Surgery. Moderately deferrable procedures include 38 Table of Contents ICD’s/CRT-D’s, TAVR/Structural Heart, and Peripheral. Extracorporeal Life Support products, including ECMO machines and disposables within our Cardiac Surgery business, are in higher demand as a result of COVID-19. • Acceptance and growth of the Cobalt and Crome portfolio of ICDs and CRT-Ds, both of which received CE Mark approval during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020. • Continued acceptance and growth of the Claria MRI CRT-D system with EffectivCRT Diagnostic and Effective CRT during AF algorithm. • Continued growth of our Micra transcatheter pacing system. Micra AV received U.S. FDA approval and CE Mark approval in January and April 2020, respectfully. Micra AV expands the Micra target population from 15 percent to 55 percent of pacemaker patients. • Continued acceptance and growth from the Azure XT and S SureScan pacing systems. Azure pacemakers feature Medtronic-exclusive BlueSync technology, which enables automatic, secure wireless remote monitoring with increased device longevity. • Acceptance and growth of the LINQ 2 cardiac monitor, which received approval in Europe during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020. • Changes in the U.S. heart transplant guidelines as well as a competitor's product launch as it relates to our LVAD business. • Continued acceptance and growth of the CRT-P quadripolar pacing system. • Continued growth, adoption, and utilization of the TYRX Envelope for implantable devices driven by the favorable results of the WRAP-IT clinical study. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020, we received 12 month shelf life extension for our TYRX Envelope product. • Continued acceptance of Care Management Services and post-acute care services becoming even more critical in bundled payment models for different interventions or therapies. • Continued acceptance and growth of the self-expanding CoreValve Evolut transcatheter aortic valve replacement platform into intermediate risk indication globally and for the treatment of patients determined to be at low risk with surgery. • Changes to the U.S. Medicare national coverage determination for transcatheter aortic valve replacement that will allow approximately 30 percent more U.S. centers to offer the therapy to patients. • Continued expansion and training of field support to increase coverage in the U.S. centers performing transcatheter aortic valve replacement procedures. • Continued acceptance and growth from Evolut PRO, which provides industry-leading hemodynamics, reliable delivery, and advanced sealing with an excellent safety profile, as well as acceptance of our next generation Evolut Pro Plus TAVR valve which launched late in the second quarter of  fiscal year 2020. • Continued acceptance and growth from the VenaSeal vein closure system in the U.S. The VenaSeal system is a unique non-thermal solution to address superficial venous disease that provides improved patient comfort, reduces the recovery time, and eliminates the risk of thermal nerve injury. • Continued acceptance and growth from the Valiant family of thoracic stent grafts, including the Valiant Navion. • Ongoing impact of Paclitaxel safety concerns affecting the drug-coated balloon market. 39 Table of Contents Minimally Invasive Therapies Group The Minimally Invasive Therapies Group’s products span the entire continuum of patient care from diagnosis to recovery, with a focus on diseases of the gastrointestinal tract, lungs, pelvic region, kidneys, obesity, and preventable complications.  The products include those for advanced and general surgical products, surgical stapling devices, vessel sealing instruments, wound closure, electrosurgery products, hernia mechanical devices, mesh implants, advanced ablation, interventional lung, ventilators, capnography, airway products, sensors, renal care products, and patient monitoring products. The Minimally Invasive Therapies Group’s net sales for fiscal year 2020 were $8.4 billion, a decrease of 1 percent as compared to fiscal year 2019. Currency had an unfavorable impact on net sales of $142 million for fiscal year 2020. The Minimally Invasive Therapies Group's net sales decline for fiscal year 2020, as compared to fiscal year 2019, reflected the impact of COVID-19 in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020, specifically impacted by deferrable procedure volumes. The net sales decline was partially offset by growth in Respiratory and Patient Monitoring as demand in Ventilators and Airways grew globally. Prior to the pandemic, net sales performance for fiscal year 2020 was attributable to growth in both Surgical Innovations and Respiratory, Gastrointestinal, & Renal divisions. The graphs below illustrate percent of Minimally Invasive Therapies Group net sales by division for fiscal years 2020 and 2019: Surgical Innovations (SI) net sales for fiscal year 2020 were $5.5 billion, a decrease of 4 percent as compared to fiscal year 2019. Surgical Innovations net sales declines were experienced across all product lines and were driven by the impact of COVID-19 in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020. Surgical Innovations was impacted significantly from the decline in surgical volumes, particularly Bariatric, Colorectal, Gynecological Health, Hernia, and Thoracic. Aside from the declines due to the pandemic, net sales performance for fiscal year 2020 was strong in Advanced Stapling and Advanced Energy, led by the LigaSure Exact Dissector and L-Hook Laparoscopic Sealer/Divider, Sonicision curved jaw cordless ultrasonic dissection system, Valleylab FT10 energy platform, and Endo GIA and EEA circular stapler platforms with Tri-Staple technology. Respiratory, Gastrointestinal, & Renal (RGR) net sales for fiscal year 2020 were $2.8 billion, an increase of 4 percent as compared to fiscal year 2019. Respiratory, Gastrointestinal, & Renal net sales growth was due in part to increased demand during the fourth quarter for ventilators and airways products due to COVID-19. The net sales growth was driven by strength in Respiratory and Patient Monitoring, including the Puritan Bennett ventilator portfolio, Nellcor pulse oximetry, and Microstream capnography monitoring products. Also driving growth for fiscal year 2020 was growth in Renal Care due to strong demand for Renal Access Catheters and Acute/Chronic Bellco consumables, as dialysis treatment continued throughout the pandemic. In addition to the general impacts of COVID-19 on our Company as described in the Executive Level Overview, looking ahead we expect our Minimally Invasive Therapies Group could be affected by the following: • Given the uncertain progression of COVID-19 around the world, it is not possible to accurately predict the timing of a broad resumption of deferrable medical procedures as the speed of recovery may vary by therapy and geography. COVID-19 case volumes and potential resurgence will play a role. Therapies that might be considered more deferrable include Surgical Innovations bariatric, hysterectomy, hernia, and GI while more urgent therapies include Surgical Innovations appendectomy, bowel obstruction, and trauma, Respiratory and Patient Monitoring, and Renal Care. Moderately deferrable procedures include Surgical Innovations CABG and oncology.  Ventilators, pulse oximetry, capnography, and advanced parameter monitoring products within our Respiratory and Patient Monitoring business are in higher demand as a result of COVID-19. 40 Table of Contents • Continued acceptance and future growth of Open-to-MIS techniques and tools supported by our efforts to transition open surgery to MIS (minimally invasive surgery). The Open-to-MIS initiative focuses on furthering our presence in and working to optimize open surgery globally, while capturing the market opportunity that exists in transitioning open procedures to MIS, whether through traditional MIS, or advanced technologies including robotics. • Continued acceptance and future growth of powered stapling and energy platform, along with our ability to execute ongoing strategies to develop, gain regulatory approval, and commercialize new products including our surgical robotics platform. • Our ability to execute ongoing strategies in order to address the competitive pressure of reprocessing of our vessel sealing disposables in the U.S. • Our ability to create markets and drive product and procedures into emerging markets. We have high quality and cost-effective surgical products designed for customers in emerging markets such as the ValleyLab LS10 single channel vessel sealing generator, which is compatible with our line of LigaSure instruments and designed for simplified use and affordability. • Continued and future acceptance of Interventional Lung Solutions. Products include the superDimension GenCut core biopsy system and the Triple Needle Cytology Brush, a lung tissue biopsy tool for use with the superDimension navigation system. The superDimension system enables a minimally invasive approach to accessing difficult-to-reach areas of the lung, which may aid in the diagnosis of lung cancer. • Expanding the use of less invasive treatments and furthering our commitment to improving options for women with abnormal uterine bleeding. Our expanded and strengthened surgical offerings are expected to complement our global gynecology business. • Continued acceptance and growth within the end stage renal disease market. The population of patients treated for end stage renal disease globally is expected to double over the next decade. We plan to grow our therapy innovation with scalable and affordable dialysis delivery while investing in vascular creation and maintenance technologies. In addition, the HD multi-pass system reduces infrastructure by requiring less water, less start-up costs, and offers high quality ultrapure dialysate treatment. We are expecting regulatory filing in first half of calendar year 2021, with launch following regulatory clearance in targeted countries. • Continued elevation of the standard of care for respiratory compromise, a progressive condition impacting a patient’s ability to breathe effectively which leverages our market leading MicroStream capnography technology. • Continued acceptance and growth in patient monitoring, airway, and ventilation management. Key products in this area include the Puritan Bennet 980 ventilator, Microstream Capnography, Nellcor pulse oximetry with OxiMax technology, Shiley tracheostomy and endotracheal tubes, and McGRATH MAC video laryngoscopes. • Continued and future acceptance of less invasive standards of care in Gastrointestinal and Hepatology products, including the areas of GI Diagnostic and Therapeutic product lines. Recently launched products include the PillCam COLON capsule endoscopy, the Barrx platform through ablation with the Barrx 360 Express catheter, EndoFLIP imaging systems, Bravo Calibration-free reflux testing, and the Emprint ablation system with Thermosphere Technology, which maintains predictable spherical ablation zones throughout procedures reducing procedure time and cost. • The July 29, 2017 divestiture of the Patient Care, Deep Vein Thrombosis, and Nutritional Insufficiency businesses. We entered into Transition Manufacturing Agreements (TMAs) with Cardinal Health, Inc. (Cardinal). The TMAs will contribute to net sales and are designed to ensure and facilitate an orderly transfer of business operations for a transition period of two to five years, with the ability to extend upon mutual agreement of the parties. Restorative Therapies Group The Restorative Therapies Group's products focus on various areas of the spine, bone graft substitutes, biologic products, trauma, implantable neurostimulation therapies and drug delivery systems for the treatment of chronic pain, movement disorders, epilepsy, overactive bladder, urinary retention, fecal incontinence and gastroparesis, as well as products to treat conditions of the ear, nose, and throat (ENT), and systems that incorporate advanced energy surgical instruments. The Restorative Therapies Group also manufactures and sells image-guided surgery and intra-operative imaging systems, robotic 41 Table of Contents guidance systems used in robot assisted spine procedures, and therapies to treat diseases of the vasculature in and around the brain, including coils, neurovascular stents, and flow diversion products. The Restorative Therapies Group’s net sales for fiscal year 2020 were $7.7 billion, a decrease of 6 percent as compared to fiscal year 2019. Currency had a negative impact on net sales for fiscal year 2020 of $71 million. The Restorative Therapies Group’s net sales decline reflected the impact of COVID-19 in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020, specifically a decline in deferrable procedures, a reduction in capital equipment purchases, and reduced demand for certain of our products as hospital systems prioritized treatment of COVID-19 patients. Prior to the pandemic, net sales performance for fiscal year 2020 was driven by increases in Brain Therapies, Spine, and Specialty Therapies divisions, partially offset by modest declines in Pain Therapies. The graphs below illustrate percent of Restorative Therapies Group net sales by division for fiscal years 2020 and 2019: Brain Therapies net sales for fiscal year 2020 were $2.9 billion, a decrease of 1 percent as compared to fiscal year 2019. Brain Therapies declines were driven by declines in Neurosurgery, partially offset by strength in Neurovascular.  Neurovascular net sales growth was driven by continued strength in our Ischemic stroke products and modest growth in Hemorrhagic stroke products. Hemorrhagic stroke saw continued growth in flow diversion products, particularly with the Pipeline Flex flow diversion system, partially offset by fourth quarter declines due to procedural deferrals caused by COVID-19. Ischemic stroke saw continued strong adoption of the recently launched Solitaire X stent retriever products as well as our Riptide aspiration system and React catheters. Neurosurgery net sales declines were impacted by delays in capital equipment sales during the fourth quarter due to COVID-19, particularly with the Mazor X robotic guidance systems, StealthStation S8 surgical navigation systems, and O-Arm Imaging Systems.  These declines were partially offset by strength in sales across all of these systems throughout fiscal year 2020 prior to COVID-19. Spine net sales for fiscal year 2020 were $2.5 billion, a decrease of 6 percent as compared to fiscal year 2019. The declines were experienced across all product lines, and were primarily driven by the impact of COVID-19. The Surgical Synergy strategy, which integrates our spinal implants with enabling technologies such as imaging, navigation, power instruments, nerve monitoring and Mazor robotics sold by our Neurosurgery business, was particularly impacted by the reduction in capital equipment purchases as a result of the pandemic. Net sales declines in Core Spine were driven by procedural deferrals as a result of the pandemic. Changing customer buying patterns also drove net sales declines within Biologics as COVID-19 drove a reduction in certain customer purchases in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020, as compared to the corresponding period in the prior fiscal year. Prior to the pandemic's impact, sales for fiscal year 2020 were driven by the Surgical Synergy strategy for spinal implants with enabling technologies, and new product penetration from recently launched Core Spine products, including the Infinity OCT System, T2 Stratosphere, and Prestige LP cervical disc system. Finally, Core Spine net sales also benefited from the acquisition of Titan Spine in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. Specialty Therapies net sales for fiscal year 2020 were $1.2 billion, a decrease of 9 percent as compared to fiscal year 2019. Net sales declines were primarily caused by deferral of procedures across both ENT and Pelvic Health as a result of COVID-19. Prior to the pandemic's impact, fiscal year 2020 sales were driven by capital equipment sales of the StealthStation ENT surgical navigation system, intraoperative NIM nerve monitoring system, and powered ENT instruments. Pain Therapies net sales for fiscal year 2020 were $1.1 billion, a decrease of 14 percent as compared to fiscal year 2019. The decrease in net sales was primarily driven by the continued overall slowdown in the U.S. spinal cord stimulation market, as well as fourth quarter procedural deferrals and changes in customer buying patterns resulting from COVID-19. In addition to the general impacts of COVID-19 on our Company as described in the Executive Level Overview, looking ahead we expect our Restorative Therapies Group could be affected by the following: 42 Table of Contents • Given the uncertain progression of COVID-19 around the world, it is not possible to accurately predict the timing of a broad resumption of deferrable medical procedures as the speed of recovery may vary by therapy and geography. COVID-19 case volumes and potential resurgence will play a role. The Restorative Therapies Group therapies tend to be used in procedures that are more deferrable. Therapies that might be considered more deferrable include Spine, Pain Therapies, Pelvic Health, and ENT while more urgent therapies include Spine trauma and Neurovascular ischemic stroke. Moderately deferrable procedures include Brain Modulation and Neurovascular hemorrhagic stroke. In addition, COVID-19 may continue to result in delayed evaluation and purchases for certain capital equipment including the Neurosurgery business which has a high mix of capital sales. • Continued acceptance and growth of the Solitare FR revascularization device for treatment of acute ischemic stroke and the Pipeline Embolization Devices, endovascular treatments for large or giant wide-necked brain aneurysms. • Continued acceptance of our React Catheter and Riptide aspiration system, along with our next-generation Solitaire revascularization device. • Continued growth from Neurosurgery StealthStation and O-Arm Imaging Systems, Midas, and ENT Navigation and Power Systems, as well as acceptance of the Stealth Autoguide cranial robotic guidance platform. • Acceptance and future growth of our Percept PC deep brain stimulation (DBS) device with Brainsense technology. • Continued acceptance of our devices for the treatment of Parkinson's Disease, epilepsy and other movement disorders. • Continued sales of Mazor robotic units and associated market adoption of robot-assisted spine procedures, including the Mazor X Stealth, our integrated robotics and navigation platform. • Strengthening of our position in the spine titanium interbody implant marketplace as a result of the June 2019 acquisition of Titan Spine. • Continued adoption of our integrated solutions through the Surgical Synergy strategy, which integrates our spinal implants with enabling technologies such as imaging, navigation, power instruments, nerve monitoring, and Mazor robotics. • Market acceptance and continued global adoption of innovative new Spine products and procedural solutions, such as our Infinity OCT System and Prestige LP cervical disc system. • Growth in the broader vertebral compression fracture (VCF) and adjacent markets, as we continue to pursue the development of other therapies to treat more patients with VCF, including continued success of both the Kyphon V vertebroplasty system and the Osteocool RF Spinal Tumor ablation system. • Continued acceptance and growth of our Specialty Therapies, including our InterStim therapy with InterStim II and InterStim Micro neurostimulators for the treatment of the symptoms of overactive bladder, urinary retention, and bowel incontinence, and capital equipment sales of the Stealth Station ENT surgical navigation system and intraoperative NIM nerve monitoring system. • Market acceptance and continued global adoption of our Intellis spinal cord stimulator, DTM (differential target multiplexed) proprietary waveform, Evolve workflow algorithm, and Snapshot reporting to treat chronic pain in major markets around the world. • Ongoing obligations under the U.S. FDA consent decree entered in April 2015 relating to the SynchroMed drug infusion system and the Neuromodulation quality system. The U.S. FDA lifted its distribution requirements on our implantable drug pump in October 2017 and its warning letter in November 2017. 43 Table of Contents Diabetes Group The Diabetes Group's products include insulin pumps, continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) systems, and insulin pump consumables. The Diabetes Group’s net sales for fiscal year 2020 were $2.4 billion, a decrease of 1 percent as compared to fiscal year 2019. Currency had an unfavorable impact on net sales for fiscal year 2020 of $42 million. The Diabetes Group's net sales declines for fiscal year 2020 were primarily attributable to the insulin pump business, particularly with competitive pressure in the U.S. and new patient start delays from physician office closings in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020 associated with COVID-19. These declines were partially offset by growth in international markets resulting from sustained strong consumer demand for the MiniMed 670G, as well as the higher sensor attachment and utilization associated with the global adoption of sensor-augmented insulin pump systems. We also launched our Next Tech Pathway program during the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 to ensure eligible patients have access to upcoming product innovations. In addition to the general impacts of COVID-19 on our Company as described in the Executive Level Overview, looking ahead we expect our Diabetes Group could be affected by the following: • Given the uncertain progression of COVID-19 around the world, it is not possible to accurately predict the timing of a broad resumption of deferrable medical procedures as the speed of recovery may vary by therapy and geography. COVID-19 case volumes and potential resurgence will play a role. Therapies that might be considered more deferrable include new insulin pump starts while more urgent therapies include diabetes supplies and consumables including continuous glucose sensors and infusion sets. • Continued pump competition in an expanding U.S. market. • Continued patient demand for the MiniMed 670G system, the first hybrid closed loop system in the world. The system is powered by SmartGuard technology, which mimics some of the functions of a healthy pancreas by providing two levels of automated insulin delivery, maximizing Time in Range with reduced user input. As of the end of fiscal year 2020, approximately 249,000 trained, active users are benefiting from SmartGuard technology. • Continued acceptance and future growth internationally for the MiniMed 670G system. This system received CE mark in June 2018 and is now commercialized in Canada, Australia, Chile and in select European, and Central and South American countries. The global adoption of sensor-augmented insulin pump systems has resulted in strong sensor attachment rates. • Changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs, along with additional payor coverage of the MiniMed 670G system. • Our ability to execute ongoing strategies to develop, gain regulatory approval, commercialize, and gain customer acceptance of new products, including our MiniMed 780G advanced hybrid closed loop system, as well as our Personalized Closed Loop system that was granted "Breakthrough Device" designation by the U.S. FDA. These technologies feature our next-generation algorithms designed to improve Time in Range by further automating insulin delivery. • Continued acceptance and growth of the Guardian Connect CGM system which displays glucose information directly to a smartphone. • Continued partnership with UnitedHealthcare as the preferred in-network provider of insulin pumps, giving their members access to our advanced diabetes technology and comprehensive support services. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES We have used various accounting policies to prepare the consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our significant accounting policies are disclosed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in "