Management's Discussion and Analysis has further information regarding our new operating model. 36 Table of Contents Looking ahead, the uncertain and uneven global recovery from COVID-19 and the resulting impact on future procedural volumes and demand for our products and therapies could negatively impact our business. Additionally, our segments are likely to face competitive product launches and pricing pressure, geographic macro-economic risks, reimbursement challenges, impacts from changes in the mix of our product offerings, changes in timing of product registration approvals, replacement cycle challenges, and fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Cardiovascular Cardiovascular products include pacemakers, insertable cardiac monitors, cardiac resynchronization therapy devices (CRT-D & CRT-P), implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICD), leads and delivery systems, ventricular assist systems, ablation products, electrophysiology catheters, products for the treatment of atrial fibrillation, information systems for the management of patients with Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure devices, products designed to reduce surgical site infections, coronary and peripheral stents and related delivery systems, balloons and related delivery systems, endovascular stent graft systems, heart valve replacement technologies, cardiac tissue ablation systems, and open heart and coronary bypass grafting surgical products. Cardiovascular also includes Care Management Services and Cath Lab Managed Services (CLMS) within the Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure division. Cardiovascular net sales for fiscal year 2021 were $10.8 billion, an increase of 3 percent as compared to fiscal year 2020. Currency had a favorable impact on net sales for fiscal year 2021 of $131 million. Cardiovascular net sales increase for fiscal year 2021, as compared to fiscal year 2020, was primarily due to the recovery of global procedural volumes from the downturn experienced in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020 resulting from the pandemic. The charts below illustrate the percent of Cardiovascular net sales by division for fiscal years 2021 and 2020: Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure (CRHF) net sales increased 9 percent in fiscal year 2021 as compared to fiscal year 2020. The increase was led by Cardiac Rhythm Management and Cardiac Ablation Solutions products, which included strong growth from the Micra leadless pacing system, Cobalt and Crome ICDs and CRT-Ds, TYRX antibacterial envelope, and Artic Front Advance Cryoballons. Partially offsetting this growth were declines in Mechanical Circulatory Support products driven by slower recovery of procedure volumes and competitive dynamics. Structural Heart & Aortic (SHA) net sales were flat in fiscal year 2021 as compared to fiscal year 2020 as growth in transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) nets sales were offset by net sales declines within our Aortic and Cardiac Surgery businesses. The growth experienced in TAVR was driven by continued adoption of the Evolut Pro + valve. The declines experienced in Aortic and Cardiac Surgery were a result of slower recovery of procedure volumes as well our voluntary recall of the Valiant Navion Thoracic Stent Graft System in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2021. Coronary & Peripheral Vascular (CPV) net sales decreased 5 percent in fiscal year 2021 as compared to fiscal year 2020. The decline was a result of the generally more deferrable nature of peripheral and endovenous procedure categories as well as the negative impact of the Chinese national tender on our drug-eluting stent sales. The Chinese national tender went into effect in January 2021 and resulted in significant price declines for drug-eluting stents in China, which negatively impacted our Coronary business. Partially offsetting these negative impacts was growth in drug-coated balloons and peripheral embolization 37 Table of Contents coils. Drug-coated balloon growth was the result of strong adoption of the IN.PACT AV drug-coated balloon driven by its pivotal data published during the second quarter of fiscal year 2021. In addition to the general impacts of COVID-19 on our Company as described in the Executive Level Overview, looking ahead, we expect Cardiovascular could be affected by the following: • Continued growth of our Micra transcatheter pacing system. Micra AV received U.S. FDA approval and CE Mark approval in January and April 2020, respectfully. Micra AV expands the Micra target population from 15 percent to 45 percent of pacemaker patients. • Continued acceptance and growth from the Azure XT and S SureScan pacing systems. Azure pacemakers feature Medtronic-exclusive BlueSync technology, which enables automatic, secure wireless remote monitoring with increased device longevity. • Acceptance and growth of the Cobalt and Crome portfolio of ICDs and CRT-Ds. These devices received CE Mark approval during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020 and U.S. FDA approval during the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. • Continued acceptance and growth of the Claria MRI CRT-D system with EffectivCRT Diagnostic and Effective CRT during AF algorithm. • Acceptance and growth of the LINQ II cardiac monitor, which received CE Mark in November 2019 and gained U.S. FDA approval during the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. As of the end of the fiscal year 2021, we are experiencing supply constrains for the LINQ II cardiac monitor as we ramp our wafer scale manufacturing. • Continued acceptance and growth of the CRT-P quadripolar pacing system. • Continued growth, adoption, and utilization of the TYRX Envelope for implantable devices driven by the favorable results of the WRAP-IT clinical study. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020, we received 12-month shelf life extension for our TYRX Envelope product. • Continued acceptance and market expansion of the Arctic Front Advance Cryoballoon for treatment of atrial fibrillation. We are pursuing a first line therapy designation from the U.S. FDA for the Arctic Front Advance Cryoballoon's treatment of atrial fibrillation using the data of the STOP AF First clinical trial. • Continued acceptance and growth of the self-expanding CoreValve Evolut transcatheter aortic valve replacement platform into intermediate risk indication globally and for the treatment of patients determined to be at low risk with surgery. The Platform received both CE Mark for low risk and bicuspid labeling indication in Europe during the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. In August 2020, the U.S. FDA approved revised commercial labeling for the platform that modified a precaution for the treatment of patients at low risk. • Continued expansion and training of field support to increase coverage in the U.S. centers performing transcatheter aortic valve replacement procedures. • Continued acceptance and growth from Evolut PRO, which provides industry-leading hemodynamics, reliable delivery, and advanced sealing with an excellent safety profile, as well as acceptance of our next generation Evolut Pro Plus TAVR valve. • The negative impact of the Chinese national tender on drug-eluting stent prices in China, that went into effect in January 2021, as well as provincial tenders in China on other Coronary product categories. • Continued acceptance and growth from the VenaSeal Closure System in the U.S. The VenaSeal Closure System is a unique non-thermal solution to address superficial venous disease that provides improved patient comfort, reduces the recovery time, and eliminates the risk of thermal nerve injury. • Our voluntary recall of the Valiant Navion Thoracic Stent Graft System and our ability to ramp production of our previous generation product, the Valiant Captivia Thoracic Stent Graft System and resume selling this product in markets globally. We currently have limited Valiant Captivia inventory available and plan to reach full production capacity in October 2021. 38 Table of Contents • Our recent decision to stop the distribution and sale of the Medtronic HVAD System in June 2021 in light of a growing body of observational clinical comparisons indicating a lower frequency of neurological adverse events and mortality with another circulatory support device available to patients compared to the HVAD system. The HVAD system and associated accessory revenue was $141 million in fiscal year 2021. Medtronic is committed to serving the needs of the approximately 4,000 patients currently implanted with our HVAD system. We expect to record a non-cash, pre-tax impairment of long-lived assets of $400 million to $500 million in the quarter ending July 30, 2021 primarily related to intangible assets. Management also expects to record a charge related to customer support obligations, restructuring, and other associated costs in the quarter ending July 30, 2021. • Our ability to successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval of products within our pipeline, which include the Symplicity Spyral Multi-Electrode Renal Denervation Catheter for the treatment of hypertension through a one-time, minimally invasive, catheter procedure, Pulse Field Ablation, a novel energy source that is non-thermal, for the treatment of atrial fibrillation, and transcatheter mitral and tricuspid therapy products lead by our Intrepid system. Medical Surgical Medical Surgical’s products span the entire continuum of patient care from diagnosis to recovery, with a focus on diseases of the gastrointestinal tract, lungs, pelvic region, kidneys, obesity, and preventable complications. The products include those for advanced and general surgical products, surgical stapling devices, vessel sealing instruments, wound closure, electrosurgery products, hernia mechanical devices, mesh implants, advanced ablation, interventional lung, ventilators, airway products, renal care products, and sensors and monitors for pulse oximetry, capnography, level of consciousness and cerebral oximetry. Medical Surgical’s net sales for fiscal year 2021 were $8.7 billion, an increase of 5 percent as compared to fiscal year 2020. Currency had a favorable impact on net sales of $87 million for fiscal year 2021. Net sales growth was primarily driven by the recovery in procedure volumes experienced from the downturn experienced in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020 from the pandemic and increased demand for COVID-19 related diagnostics and therapies, particularly ventilator and airway products, as compared to fiscal year 2020. The charts below illustrate the percent of Medical Surgical net sales by division for fiscal years 2021 and 2020: Surgical Innovations (SI) net sales for fiscal year 2021 decreased 1 percent as compared to fiscal year 2020, with declines experienced across many product lines due to the deceleration of surgical procedure recovery. The decline in surgical volumes, particularly Bariatric, Colorectal, Hernia, and Thoracic procedures, resulted in lower demand for Advanced Stapling products and General Surgery products. This decline in demand was partially offset by new product launches driving growth in Advanced Energy. 39 Table of Contents Respiratory, Gastrointestinal, & Renal (RGR) net sales for fiscal year 2021 increased 16 percent as compared to fiscal year 2020. Net sales growth was primarily attributable to increased demand for Respiratory Interventions products due to COVID-19, driven by the Puritan Bennett high acuity ventilator portfolio. In addition to the general impacts of COVID-19 on our Company as described in the Executive Level Overview, looking ahead we expect Medical Surgical could be affected by the following: • Continued acceptance and future growth of Open-to-MIS techniques and tools supported by our efforts to transition open surgery to MIS (minimally invasive surgery). The Open-to-MIS initiative focuses on furthering our presence in and working to optimize open surgery globally, while capturing the market opportunity that exists in transitioning open procedures to MIS, whether through traditional MIS, or advanced technologies including robotics. • Continued acceptance and future growth of powered stapling and energy platform, along with our ability to execute ongoing strategies to develop, gain regulatory approval, and commercialize new products including our surgical soft tissue robotics platform. • Our ability to execute ongoing strategies in order to address the competitive pressure of reprocessing of our vessel sealing disposables and growth of surgical soft tissue robotics procedures in the U.S. • Our ability to create markets and drive products and procedures into emerging markets. We have high quality and cost-effective surgical products designed for customers in emerging markets such as the ValleyLab LS10 single channel vessel sealing generator, which is compatible with our line of LigaSure instruments and designed for simplified use and affordability. • Continued acceptance and growth within the end stage renal disease market. The population of patients treated for end stage renal disease globally is expected to double over the next decade. • Continued elevation of the standard of care for respiratory compromise, a progressive condition impacting a patient’s ability to breathe effectively, which leverages our market leading MicroStream capnography technology. • Continued acceptance and growth in patient monitoring, airway, and ventilation management. Key products in this area include the Puritan Bennett 980 ventilator, Microstream Capnography, Nellcor pulse oximetry system with OxiMax technology, Shiley tracheostomy and endotracheal tubes, and McGRATH MAC video laryngoscopes. • Continued and future acceptance of less invasive standards of care in Gastrointestinal and Hepatology products, including the areas of GI Diagnostic and Therapeutic product lines. Recently launched products include the PillCam COLON capsule endoscopy, the Barrx platform through ablation with the Barrx 360 Express catheter, EndoFLIP imaging systems, Bravo Calibration-free reflux testing, and the Emprint ablation system with Thermosphere Technology, which maintains predictable spherical ablation zones throughout procedures reducing procedure time and cost. • Continued and future acceptance of Interventional Lung Solutions. Products include our Illumisite navigation platform, combined with our portfolio of biopsy tools including the Arcpoint pulmonary needle, and to access lesions outside the airway, the CrossCountry transbronchial access tool. This comprehensive portfolio gives the power to display position and access lung nodules in the periphery of the lungs, in a minimally invasive approach to accessing difficult-to-reach areas of the lung, which may aid in the diagnosis of lung cancer. • Expanding the use of less invasive treatments and furthering our commitment to improving options for women with abnormal uterine bleeding. Our expanded and strengthened surgical offerings are expected to complement our global gynecology business. • Our ability to successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval of products within our pipeline, which include our PillCam Genius endoscopy module, a noninvasive process to localize pre-cancerous lesions and our Hugo robotic assisted surgery system, designed to help reduce unwanted variability, improve patient outcomes, and, by extension, lower per-procedure cost. 40 Table of Contents Neuroscience Neuroscience's products include various spinal implants, bone graft substitutes, biologic products, image-guided surgery and intra-operative imaging systems, robotic guidance systems used in the robot-assisted spine procedures, and systems that incorporate advanced energy surgical instruments. Neuroscience's products also focus on the treatment of overactive bladder, urinary retention, fecal incontinence, gastroparesis, as well as products to treat ear, nose, and throat (ENT), and therapies to treat the diseases of the vasculature in and around the brain, including coils, neurovascular stents and flow diversion products. Neuroscience also manufactures products related to implantable neurostimulation therapies and drug delivery systems for the treatment of chronic pain, movement disorders, and epilepsy. Neuroscience’s net sales for fiscal year 2021 were $8.2 billion, an increase of 6 percent as compared to fiscal year 2020. Currency had a favorable impact on net sales for fiscal year 2021 of $75 million. Neuroscience’s net sales growth was observed across all divisions and reflected the recovery of global procedural volumes, particularly on deferrable procedures, from the downturn experienced in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020 as a result of the pandemic. The graphs below illustrate the percent of Neuroscience net sales by division for fiscal years 2021 and 2020: Cranial & Spinal Technologies (CST) net sales for fiscal year 2021 increased 5 percent as compared to fiscal year 2020. Growth was experienced by both Enabling Technologies and Spine. Enabling Technologies results, though still impacted by the challenging environment for capital equipment due to COVID-19, were driven by recovery on sales of the Midas Rex MR8 high-speed drill system and the StealthStation S8 Navigation System. Spine net sales growth was driven by recovery in procedural volumes in fiscal year 2021. Specialty Therapies (Specialty) net sales for fiscal year 2021 increased 7 percent as compared to fiscal year 2020. Net sales growth was primarily driven by strength in Pelvic Health and Neurovascular. Pelvic Health saw continued recovery and growth throughout the fiscal year, driven by the launch of the InterStim Micro neurostimulator and SureScan MRI lead in the U.S. Neurovascular's growth continued to be driven by strength in coils and aspiration catheters, as well as general strength in emerging markets. This growth was partially offset by declines in flow diversion products due to recent competitive entrants. ENT experienced modest net sales growth due to the recovery of deferrable procedure volumes. Neuromodulation (NM) net sales for fiscal year 2021 increased 7 percent as compared to fiscal year 2020. Sales growth occurred in both Pain Therapies and Brain Modulation and reflected a recovery in procedural volumes. Net sales growth was driven by strong adoption of the DTM (differential target multiplexed) proprietary waveform in Pain Therapies, and the Percept PC deep brain stimulation (DBS) device with BrainSense technology in Brain Modulation. 41 Table of Contents In addition to the general impacts of COVID-19 on our Company as described in the Executive Level Overview, looking ahead we expect Neuroscience could be affected by the following: • Continued growth from Enabling Technologies StealthStation and O-Arm Imaging Systems, Midas, and ENT Navigation and Power Systems, as well as acceptance of the Stealth Autoguide cranial robotic guidance platform. • Continued sales of Mazor robotic units and associated market adoption of robot-assisted spine procedures, including the Mazor X Stealth, our integrated robotics and navigation platform. • Strengthening of our position in the spine titanium interbody implant marketplace as a result of the June 2019 acquisition of Titan Spine. • Continued adoption of our integrated solutions through the Surgical Synergy strategy, which integrates our spinal implants with enabling technologies such as imaging, navigation, power instruments, nerve monitoring, and Mazor robotics. • Market acceptance and continued global adoption of innovative new spine products and procedural solutions within our CST business such as our Infinity OCT System and Prestige LP cervical disc system. • Growth in the broader vertebral compression fracture (VCF) and adjacent markets as we continue to pursue the development of other therapies to treat more patients with VCF, including continued success of both the Kyphon V vertebroplasty system and the Osteocool RF Spinal Tumor ablation system. • Continued acceptance and growth of our ENT and Pelvic Health therapies within our Specialty Therapies division, including our InterStim therapy with InterStim II and InterStim Micro neurostimulators, which received CE mark approval in January 2020 and U.S. FDA approval in August 2020, for the treatment of the symptoms of overactive bladder, urinary retention, and bowel incontinence, and capital equipment sales of the Stealth Station ENT surgical navigation system and intraoperative NIM nerve monitoring system. • Continued acceptance and growth of the Solitaire FR revascularization device for treatment of acute ischemic stroke and the Pipeline Embolization Devices, endovascular treatments for large or giant wide-necked brain aneurysms. • Continued acceptance of our React Catheter and Riptide aspiration system, along with our next-generation Solitaire revascularization device. • Market acceptance and continued global adoption of our Intellis spinal cord stimulator, DTM proprietary waveform, Evolve workflow algorithm, and Snapshot reporting to treat chronic pain in major markets around the world. • Continued acceptance and growth of our Percept PC DBS device with BrainSense technology, which received CE Mark approval in January 2020 and U.S. FDA approval in June 2020, including its treatment of Parkinson's Disease, epilepsy, and other movement disorders. • Ongoing obligations under the U.S. FDA consent decree entered in April 2015 relating to the SynchroMed drug infusion system and the Neuromodulation quality system. The U.S. FDA lifted its distribution requirements on our implantable drug pump in October 2017 and its warning letter in November 2017. • Our ability to successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval of the products within our pipeline, which include our closed-loop Percept PC and RC devices with adaptive DBS (aDBS) within Neuromodulation, as well as our hemorrhagic stroke intrasaccular device within Specialty Therapies, and our next-generation spine enabling technologies within CST. Diabetes Diabetes' products include insulin pumps, continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) systems, insulin pump consumables, and smart insulin pen systems. Diabetes' sales for fiscal year 2021 were $2.4 billion, an increase of 2 percent as compared to fiscal year 2020. Currency had a favorable impact on net sales for fiscal year 2021 of $37 million. Diabetes' net sales increases for fiscal year 2021 were primarily attributable to growth in the MiniMed 780G insulin pump system and integrated CGM in the international markets. This growth was partially offset by declines in the U.S. due to new patient start delays and continued competitive pressures. 42 Table of Contents In addition to the general impacts of COVID-19 on our Company as described in the Executive Level Overview, looking ahead we expect Diabetes could be affected by the following: • Patient demand for the MiniMed 770G insulin pump system, which received U.S. FDA approval in August 2020 and launched in November 2020. The system is powered by SmartGuard technology, as featured in the MiniMed 670G system, with the added benefits of smartphone connectivity and an expanded age indication to children as young as age two. • Continued future growth internationally for the MiniMed 780G system. The MiniMed 780G system was approved in the E.U. in June 2020 and launched in over 30 countries on four continents outside the U.S., primarily in Europe, starting in October 2020. The global adoption of sensor-augmented insulin pump systems has resulted in strong sensor attachment rates. • Continued acceptance and growth of the Guardian Connect CGM system, which displays glucose information directly to a smartphone. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, we introduced the Guardian Connect system for Android devices to ensure patients have access to their glucose levels seamlessly and discretely. The Guardian Connect CGM system is available on Apple iOS and Android devices. • Strengthening our position in the diabetes market as a result of the September 10, 2020 acquisition of Companion Medical. Companion Medical offers a U.S. FDA cleared InPen smart pen system that combines the freedom of a reusable Bluetooth pen with the intelligence of an intuitive mobile application that helps users administer the appropriate insulin dose. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2021, we integrated our CGM data into the Companion Medical InPen Application, which allows users to have their CGM readings in real-time alongside insulin dose information, all in one view. • Continued pump and CGM competition in an expanding global market. • Changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs, along with additional payor coverage on insulin pumps. • Our ability to successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval of the products within our pipeline, which include our adult and pediatric MiniMed 780G and the Guardian 4 sensor, which have been submitted to the U.S. FDA. These technologies feature our next-generation algorithms by further automating insulin delivery. 43 Table of Contents COSTS AND EXPENSES The following is a summary of cost of products sold, research and development, and selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percent of net sales: Cost of Products Sold Cost of products sold for fiscal years 2021 and 2020 was $10.5 billion and $9.4 billion, respectively. The increase in cost of products sold as a percentage of net sales in fiscal year 2021, as compared to fiscal year 2020, was largely due to increased expenses as a result of a full fiscal year impact of COVID-19, primarily due to period expensing of some of our fixed overhead costs due to idle capacity at certain manufacturing facilities and increases in reserves for excess and obsolete inventory, as well as charges associated with recent field corrective actions. Going forward, we will continue to focus on reducing our costs of production through supplier management, manufacturing improvements, and optimizing our manufacturing network. Research and Development Expense We remain committed to accelerating the development of meaningful innovations to deliver better patient outcomes at appropriate costs that lead to enhanced quality of life and may be validated by clinical and economic evidence. We are also focused on expanding access to quality healthcare. In fiscal year 2021, we entered into arrangements with third parties to fund the development of certain technologies in our Diabetes segment. As there is a substantive and genuine transfer of risk to the third parties, the development funding provided is recognized as an obligation to perform contractual services, and therefore is recorded as income in other operating expense, net in the consolidated statements of income in the period the corresponding research and development expenses are incurred. If the technologies receive regulatory approval and are successfully commercialized, we will pay royalties to the third parties. During fiscal year 2021, no projects were significant, either individually or in aggregate, to our consolidated results. Selling, General, and Administrative Expense Our goal is to continue to leverage selling, general, and administrative expense initiatives. Selling, general, and administrative expense primarily consists of salaries and wages, other administrative costs, such as professional fees and marketing expenses, and certain acquisition and restructuring expenses. Selling, general, and administrative expense for fiscal years 2021 and 2020 was $10.1 billion. The decrease in selling, general, and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales in fiscal year 2021, as compared to 2020, was primarily due to net sales growth, coupled with reduced travel and discretionary spending due to the pandemic, offset by higher annual incentive accruals and increased restructuring and associated costs. Selling, general, and administrative expense in fiscal year 2021 includes $196 million of restructuring and associated costs, as compared to $168 million in fiscal year 2020. Additionally, for fiscal year 2020, selling, general, and administrative expense includes $103 million of acquisition-related costs, as compared to $3 million for fiscal year 2021. 44 Table of Contents The following is a summary of other costs and expenses: Fiscal Year (in millions) 2021 2020 Amortization of intangible assets $ 1,783 $ 1,756 Restructuring charges, net 293 118 Certain litigation charges 118 313 Other operating expense, net 315 71 Other non-operating income, net (336) (356) Interest expense 925 1,092 Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization of intangible assets includes the amortization expense of our definite-lived intangible assets, consisting of purchased patents, trademarks, tradenames, customer relationships, purchased technology, and other intangible assets. Restructuring Charges, Net Enterprise Excellence In the third quarter of fiscal year 2018, we announced a multi-year global Enterprise Excellence Program designed to drive long-term business growth and sustainable efficiency. The Enterprise Excellence Program is expected to further leverage our global size and scale as well as enhance the customer and employee experience. The Enterprise Excellence Program is focused on three objectives: • Global Operations – integrating and enhancing global manufacturing and supply processes, systems and site presence to improve quality, delivery cost and cash flow • Functional Optimization – enhancing and leveraging global operating models and systems across several enabling functions to improve productivity and employee experience • Commercial Optimization – optimizing certain processes, systems and models to improve productivity and the customer experience The Enterprise Excellence Program is designed to drive operating margin improvement as well as fund investment in strategic growth initiatives, with expected gross savings of more than $3.0 billion from cost reductions and leverage of our fixed infrastructure by the end of fiscal year 2022. Approximately $500 million to $700 million of gross annual savings are expected to be achieved through the end of fiscal year 2022. The Enterprise Excellence Program is expected to result in pre-tax restructuring charges of approximately $1.6 billion to $1.8 billion, the vast majority of which are expected to be incurred by the end of fiscal year 2022 and result in cash outlays to be substantially complete by the end of fiscal year 2023. Approximately 40 percent of estimated charges are related to employee termination benefits. The remaining charges are costs associated with the restructuring program, such as salaries and benefits for employees supporting the program, including program management and transition teams, and strategic and operational consulting services related to the three objectives of the program discussed above. We expect these costs to be recognized within restructuring charges, net, cost of products sold, and selling, general and administrative expense in the consolidated statements of income. During fiscal year 2021, we recognized net charges of $349 million, including $52 million recognized within restructuring charges, net in the consolidated statements of income which were primarily comprised of employee termination benefits. For fiscal year 2021, charges also included costs incurred as a direct result of the restructuring program, such as salaries for employees supporting the program and consulting expenses, including $128 million recognized within cost of products sold and $169 million recognized within selling, general and administrative expense in the consolidated statements of income. During fiscal year 2020, we recognized net charges of $441 million, including $118 million recognized within restructuring charges, net in the consolidated statements of income primarily comprised of employee termination benefits. For fiscal year 2020, charges also included costs incurred as a direct result of the restructuring program, such as salaries for employees supporting the program and consulting expenses, including $149 million recognized within cost of products sold and $165 million recognized within selling, general and administrative expense in the consolidated statements of income. 45 Table of Contents Simplification In the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, we initiated our Simplification restructuring program, designed to make the Company a more nimble and competitive organization focused on accelerating innovation, enhancing the customer experience, driving revenue growth, and winning market share, while also more efficiently and effectively leveraging our enterprise scale. Under the oversight of the portfolio leaders, this new operating model, which became fully operational the beginning of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2021, will simplify our organizational structure and accelerate decision-making and execution. Primary activities of the restructuring program will include reorganizing our business into a portfolio-level structure, including the creation of highly focused, accountable and empowered Operating Units (OUs), consolidating operations at the enterprise level, establishing Technology Development Centers in areas where we have deep core technology competencies to be leveraged by multiple OUs, and forming dedicated sales organizations that leverage our scale but move with the same agility as our smaller, local competitors. The Simplification program designed to streamline our operating model, improve competitiveness, and enhance the customer and employee experience will result in substantial reduction in selling, general, and administrative expenses, the majority of which are expected to be achieved through the end of fiscal year 2022. Annual savings of approximately $450 million to $475 million are expected to be realized by the various components of the Simplification program. We estimate that, in connection with the Simplification restructuring program, we will recognize pre-tax exit and disposal costs and other costs across all segments of approximately $400 million to $450 million, the majority of which are expected to be incurred by the end of fiscal year 2022. Approximately three quarters of the estimated charges are related to employee termination benefits. The remaining charges are costs associated with the restructuring program, such as salaries for employees supporting the program and consulting expenses to execute the reorganization of our business into a portfolio-like structure as discussed above. These charges are recognized within restructuring charges, net and selling, general, and administrative expense in the consolidated statements of income. During fiscal year 2021, we recognized net charges of $268 million, including $241 million within restructuring charges, net in the consolidated statements of income. For fiscal year 2021, charges included $97 million of incremental defined benefit pension and post-retirement related expenses for employees that accepted voluntary early retirement packages within restructuring charges, net in the consolidated statements of income. For fiscal year 2021, charges also included costs incurred as a direct result of the restructuring program, such as salaries for employees supporting the program and consulting expenses, including $27 million recognized within selling, general, and administrative expense in the consolidated statements of income. For additional information, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in “