Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) for discussion on changes in market share by region. 2 Table of Contents GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES As discussed above, total vehicle sales and market share data provided in the table above includes fleet vehicles. Certain fleet transactions, particularly sales to daily rental car companies, are generally less profitable than retail sales to end customers. Prior to January 1, 2018 a significant portion of the sales to daily rental car companies were recorded as operating leases under U.S. GAAP with no recognition of revenue at the date of initial delivery due to guaranteed repurchase obligations. Beginning January 1, 2018, a significant portion of the sales to daily rental car companies are recorded as sales at the time of delivery to daily rental car companies. The following table summarizes estimated fleet sales and those sales as a percentage of total vehicle sales (vehicles in thousands): Years Ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 GMNA 740 691 707 GMI 478 541 527 Total fleet sales 1,218 1,232 1,234 Fleet sales as a percentage of total vehicle sales 14.5 % 13.8 % 13.9 % Product Pricing Several methods are used to promote our products, including the use of dealer, retail and fleet incentives such as customer rebates and finance rate support. The level of incentives is dependent upon the level of competition in the markets in which we operate and the level of demand for our products. Cyclical Nature of Business Retail sales are cyclical and production varies from month to month. Vehicle model changeovers occur throughout the year as a result of new market entries. The market for vehicles depends in part on general economic conditions, credit availability and consumer spending. Relationship with Dealers We market vehicles and automotive parts worldwide primarily through a network of independent authorized retail dealers. These outlets include distributors, dealers and authorized sales, service and parts outlets. The following table summarizes the number of authorized dealerships: December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 GMNA 4,793 4,809 4,857 GMI 7,716 7,641 8,598 Total 12,509 12,450 13,455 We and our joint ventures enter into a contract with each authorized dealer agreeing to sell to the dealer one or more specified product lines at wholesale prices and granting the dealer the right to sell those vehicles to retail customers from an approved location. Our dealers often offer more than one GM brand at a single dealership in a number of our markets. Authorized dealers offer parts, accessories, service and repairs for GM vehicles in the product lines that they sell using GM parts and accessories. Our dealers are authorized to service GM vehicles under our limited warranty program and those repairs are made only with GM parts. Our dealers generally provide their customers with access to credit or lease financing, vehicle insurance and extended service contracts provided by GM Financial and other financial institutions. The quality of GM dealerships and our relationship with our dealers and distributors are critical to our success as dealers maintain the primary sales and service interface with the end consumer of our products. In addition to the terms of our contracts with our dealers, we are regulated by various country and state franchise laws and regulations that may supersede those contractual terms and impose specific regulatory requirements and standards for initiating dealer network changes, pursuing terminations for cause and other contractual matters. Research, Product and Business Development and Intellectual Property Costs for research, manufacturing engineering, product engineering and design and development activities relate primarily to developing new products or services or improving existing products or services, including activities related to vehicle and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions control, improved fuel economy, electrification, autonomous vehicles, the safety of drivers and passengers, and urban mobility. Research and development expenses were $7.8 billion , $7.3 billion and $6.6 billion in the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 . 3 Table of Contents GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Product Development The Product Development organization is responsible for designing and integrating vehicle and propulsion components to maximize part sharing across multiple vehicle segments. Global teams in Design, Program Management, Component & Subsystem Engineering, Product Integrity, Safety, Propulsion Systems and Purchasing & Supply Chain collaborate to meet customer requirements and maximize global economies of scale. Our global vehicle architecture development is headquartered at our Global Technical Center in Warren, Michigan. Cross-segment part sharing is an essential enabler to optimize our current vehicle portfolio, as we expect that more than 75% of our global sales volume will come from five vehicle architectures by early next decade. We will continue to leverage our current architecture portfolio to accommodate our customers around the world while achieving our financial goals. In November 2018 we announced plans to transform our product development and optimize our product portfolio. We are evolving our global product development workforce and processes to drive world-class levels of engineering in advanced technologies and to improve quality and speed to market. Hybrid, Plug-In, Extended Range and Battery Electric Vehicles We are investing in multiple technologies offering increasing levels of vehicle electrification including eAssist, plug-in hybrid, full hybrid, extended range and zero emission battery electric vehicles that are part of our long-term strategy to reduce petroleum consumption and GHG emissions. We currently offer seven 2018 model year vehicles in the U.S. featuring some form of electrification and continue to develop plug-in hybrid electric vehicle technology and extended range electric vehicles such as the Chevrolet Bolt EV. Car- and Ride-Sharing Maven is a shared vehicle marketplace that leverages a versatile software and operational platform to provide members with on-demand access to vehicles through two primary services, Maven Gig and Maven Car Sharing. Maven Gig allows members to access vehicles that can be used in ride-sharing and delivery with companies such as Uber Technologies Inc. and GrubHub Inc. Maven Car Sharing is a consumer service that provides on-demand access to Maven owned and peer-owned vehicles through a new peer-to-peer car-sharing offering. Maven is available in 24 cities across the U.S., Canada and Australia. Through December 31, 2018 Maven Gig and Maven Car Sharing have accumulated in aggregate over 171 million miles driven, 34 million all-electric miles driven and 247,000 reservations. Maven now has 190,000 members. Autonomous Technology We see autonomous technology leading to a future of zero crashes, zero emissions and zero congestion, since more than 90% of crashes are caused by driver error, according to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA). We are among the leaders in the industry with significant global real-world experience in delivering connectivity and advanced safety features that are the building blocks to more advanced automation features that are driving our leadership position in the development of autonomous technology. An example of advanced technology is Super Cruise, a driver assistance feature that enables hands-free driving on the highway, which will be expanded to all Cadillac models, with roll-out beginning in 2020. We are actively testing autonomous vehicles in San Francisco, California; Scottsdale, Arizona; and Michigan. Gated by safety and regulation, we continue to make rapid progress toward commercialization of a network of on-demand autonomous vehicles in the U.S. In January 2018 we revealed the Cruise AV, a production-intent self-driving vehicle that was engineered from the start to operate safely on its own, with no driver. In May 2018 SoftBank Vision Fund (The Vision Fund) agreed to invest in GM Cruise, our global segment responsible for the development and commercialization of autonomous vehicle technology. In addition, in October 2018 we reached an agreement to work jointly with Honda Motor Co., Ltd (Honda) to fund and develop a shared autonomous vehicle (SAV) for GM Cruise that can serve a wide variety of use cases and be manufactured at high volume. For additional information on third-party investments in GM Cruise, refer to the Overview section of the