Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) for discussion on changes in market share by region. 2 Table of Contents GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES The sales and market share data provided in the table above includes both fleet vehicle sales and sales to retail customers. Certain fleet transactions, particularly sales to daily rental car companies, are generally less profitable than sales to retail customers. A significant portion of the sales to daily rental car companies are recorded as operating leases under U.S. GAAP with no recognition of revenue at the date of initial delivery due to guaranteed repurchase obligations. The following table summarizes estimated fleet sales and those sales as a percentage of total retail vehicle sales (vehicles in thousands): Years Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 GMNA 707 795 814 GME 551 544 505 GMIO 369 345 414 GMSA 157 121 176 Total fleet sales 1,784 1,805 1,909 Fleet sales as a percentage of total retail vehicle sales 17.8 % 18.1 % 19.2 % The following table summarizes U.S. fleet sales (vehicles in thousands): Years Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Daily rental sales 327 400 449 Other fleet sales 269 278 255 Total fleet sales 596 678 704 Fleet sales as a percentage of total U.S. retail vehicle sales Cars 24.9 % 29.3 % 29.5 % Trucks 19.2 % 19.7 % 21.8 % Crossovers 14.6 % 17.5 % 19.1 % Total vehicles 19.6 % 22.0 % 24.0 % Product Pricing Several methods are used to promote our products, including the use of dealer, retail and fleet incentives such as customer rebates and finance rate support. The level of incentives is dependent in large part upon the level of competition in the markets in which we operate and the level of demand for our products. In 2017 we plan to continue to price vehicles competitively, including offering incentives as required. We believe this strategy, coupled with sound inventory management, will continue to strengthen our brands. Cyclical Nature of Business Retail sales are cyclical and production varies from month to month. Vehicle model changeovers occur throughout the year as a result of new market entries. The market for vehicles depends on general economic conditions, credit availability and consumer spending. Relationship with Dealers We market vehicles worldwide primarily through a network of independent authorized retail dealers. These outlets include distributors, dealers and authorized sales, service and parts outlets. The following table summarizes the number of authorized dealerships: December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 GMNA 4,857 4,886 4,908 GME 6,104 6,330 6,633 GMIO 7,232 7,755 7,699 GMSA 1,259 1,281 1,272 Total worldwide 19,452 20,252 20,512 We and our joint ventures enter into a contract with each authorized dealer agreeing to sell to the dealer one or more specified product lines at wholesale prices and granting the dealer the right to sell those vehicles to retail customers from an approved 3 Table of Contents GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES location. Our dealers often offer more than one GM brand at a single dealership in a number of our markets in order to enhance dealer profitability. Authorized dealers offer parts, accessories, service and repairs for GM vehicles in the product lines that they sell using GM parts and accessories. Our dealers are authorized to service GM vehicles under our limited warranty program and those repairs are made only with GM parts. Our dealers generally provide their customers with access to credit or lease financing, vehicle insurance and extended service contracts provided by GM Financial and other financial institutions. The quality of GM dealerships and our relationship with our dealers and distributors are critical to our success as dealers maintain the primary sales and service interface with the end consumer of our products. In addition to the terms of our contracts with our dealers we are regulated by various country and state franchise laws that may supersede those contractual terms and impose specific regulatory requirements and standards for initiating dealer network changes, pursuing terminations for cause and other contractual matters. Research, Product and Business Development and Intellectual Property Costs for research, manufacturing engineering, product engineering and design and development activities relate primarily to developing new products or services or improving existing products or services including activities related to vehicle emissions control, improved fuel economy, the safety of drivers and passengers, urban mobility and autonomous vehicles. In the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 research and development expenses were $8.1 billion , $7.5 billion and $7.4 billion . Product Development The Product Development organization is responsible for designing and integrating vehicle and powertrain components to maximize part sharing across multiple vehicle segments. Global teams in Design, Program Management, Component & Subsystem Engineering, Product Integrity, Safety, Propulsion and Purchasing & Supply Chain collaborate to meet customer requirements and maximize global economies of scale. Our global vehicle architecture development has been consolidated and headquartered at our Global Technical Center in Warren, Michigan, to further the standardization of our overall vehicle development process. Cross-segment part sharing is an essential enabler to our Vehicle Set Strategy, designed to reduce our overall number of global vehicle architectures to four major vehicle sets. As we implement the four vehicle sets, we will continue to leverage our current architecture portfolio to accommodate our customers around the world while achieving our financial goals. Hybrid, Plug-In, Extended Range and Battery Electric Vehicles We are investing in multiple technologies offering increasing levels of vehicle electrification including eAssist, plug-in hybrid, full hybrid, extended range and battery electric vehicles. We currently offer six models in the U.S. featuring some form of electrification and continue to develop plug-in hybrid electric vehicle technology and extended range electric vehicles such as the Chevrolet Volt. In 2016 we began production and sales of the Chevrolet Bolt EV, which provides an EPA-rated 238 miles of range on a full charge. Car- and Ride-Sharing In 2016, we executed several steps in our strategy to redefine personal mobility. In January 2016 we announced a new car-sharing service called Maven, which combines our multiple car-sharing programs under a single brand. Maven gives customers access to highly personalized, on-demand mobility services. During 2016 we expanded our Maven offerings to 16 cities across the U.S. In January 2016 we also purchased a 9% equity ownership interest in Lyft, Inc. (Lyft), a privately held company, for $0.5 billion. In March 2016 we announced a new program called Express Drive, which leverages our Lyft relationship to expand our ride-sharing offerings. Under the Express Drive program, Lyft drivers in multiple cities across the U.S. can rent General Motors vehicles on a weekly basis. We are also considering additional options to expand our ride-sharing offerings. In November 2016 we announced that we are partnering with Uber Technologies Inc. (Uber) to pilot a program under which Uber drivers can rent General Motors vehicles on a weekly basis. Additionally, we plan to develop an integrated network of on-demand autonomous vehicles in the U.S. Autonomous Technology We see autonomous technology leading to significant advances in convenience, mobility and safety, since more than 90% of crashes are caused by driver error. We have millions of miles of real-world experience with embedded connectivity through OnStar, LLC (OnStar) and advanced safety features that are the building blocks to more advanced automation features that we believe will eventually lead to fully autonomous vehicles. An example of advanced automation is Super Cruise, a hands-free driving customer convenience feature that will debut in 2017 on the Cadillac CT6 sedan. In May 2016 we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Cruise Automation Inc. (Cruise), an autonomous vehicle technology company, to further accelerate our development of autonomous vehicles. We are also actively testing autonomous vehicles on public roads in San Francisco, California, Scottsdale, Arizona and Warren, Michigan. 4 Table of Contents GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Alternative Fuel Vehicles We believe alternative fuels offer significant potential to reduce petroleum consumption in the transportation sector. By leveraging experience and capability developed around these technologies in our global operations we continue to develop FlexFuel vehicles that can run on gasoline-ethanol blend fuels as well as vehicles that run on compressed natural gas (CNG) and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG). We currently offer 11 FlexFuel vehicles in the U.S. for the 2017 model year to retail customers plus an additional seven models to fleet and commercial customers capable of operating on gasoline, E85 ethanol or any combination of the two. In Brazil a substantial majority of vehicles sold were FlexFuel vehicles capable of running on 100% ethanol blends. We also market FlexFuel vehicles in other global markets where biofuels have emerged in the marketplace. In addition, we are studying ethanol-based fuels as well as other high-octane fuel blends and the role they can play in maximizing efficiencies of future internal combustion engine technology development to meet the escalating fuel economy and greenhouse gas emission regulations in the U.S. and other markets. We produce CNG bi-fuel capable vehicles in Europe such as the Opel Zafira Tourer and the Opel Combo van. In the U.S. we are developing a program to offer a wide selection of truck and van options through a specialty vehicle manufacturing program, operating on CNG or LPG, which are suitable for fleet and commercial applications and retail customers alike. Availability is scheduled to begin in 2017. Globally, we offer CNG and LPG capable vehicles in select markets reflecting the infrastructure, regulatory focus and natural resource availability of the markets in which they are sold. We support the development of biodiesel blend fuels, which are alternative diesel fuels produced from renewable sources. Hydrogen Fuel Cell Technology As part of our long-term strategy to reduce petroleum consumption and greenhouse gas emissions we are committed to development of our hydrogen fuel cell technology. Our Chevrolet Equinox fuel cell electric vehicle demonstration programs, such as Project Driveway, have accumulated more than 3 million miles of real-world driving by consumers, celebrities, business partners and government agencies. These programs are helping us identify consumer and infrastructure needs to understand the business case for potential production of vehicles with this technology. We are exploring non-traditional automotive uses for fuel cells in several areas, including demonstrations with the U.S. Army and U.S. Navy. We signed a co-development agreement with Honda Motor Company in October 2016 for a next-generation fuel cell system and hydrogen storage technologies, aiming for the 2020 timeframe for commercialization. The collaboration expects to succeed by sharing expertise, economies of scale and common sourcing strategies and builds upon GM's and Honda Motor Company's strengths as leaders in hydrogen fuel cell technology. Fuel Efficiency We are committed to improving fuel efficiency and meeting regulatory standards through a combination of strategies including: (1) extensive technology improvements to conventional powertrains; (2) increased use of smaller displacement engines and improved and advanced automatic transmissions; and (3) vehicle improvements including increased use of lighter, front-wheel drive architectures. OnStar OnStar is a wholly-owned subsidiary of GM serving more than 7.2 million subscribers in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, China (through a joint venture), South America and Europe. OnStar is a provider of connected safety, security and mobility solutions and advanced information technology and is available on the majority of our 2017 model year vehicles. OnStar's key services include automatic crash response, stolen vehicle assistance, remote door unlock, turn-by-turn navigation, vehicle diagnostics, hands-free calling and 4G LTE wireless connectivity. Intellectual Property We generate and hold a significant number of patents in a number of countries in connection with the operation of our business. While none of these patents are individually material to our business as a whole, these patents are important to our operations and continued technological development. We hold a number of trademarks and service marks that are very important to our identity and recognition in the marketplace. Raw Materials, Services and Supplies We purchase a wide variety of raw materials, parts, supplies, energy, freight, transportation and other services from numerous suppliers to manufacture our products. The raw materials primarily include steel, aluminum, resins, copper, lead and platinum group metals. We have not experienced any significant shortages of raw materials and normally do not carry substantial inventories of such raw materials in excess of levels reasonably required to meet our production requirements. In some instances, we purchase systems, components, parts and supplies from a single source and may be at an increased risk for supply disruptions. The inability or unwillingness of these sources to supply us with parts and supplies could have a material adverse effect on our production capacity. Refer to