Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) for detail), partially offset by our market share increase in China driven by strong performance of existing products and successful new launches including new sport utility vehicles (SUVs), Cadillac vehicles and multipurpose vehicles. Our retail vehicle sales volumes in the year ended December 31, 2014 grew at a slightly slower pace than the overall industry, resulting in a 0.1 percentage point industry share decline. Our market share decreased due primarily to the withdrawal of the Chevrolet brand from Europe and economic conditions and competitive environment in Brazil, partially offset by our market share increase in China driven by improved performance of existing products and successful launches of new vehicles. Fleet Sales and Deliveries The sales and market share data provided previously includes both retail and fleet vehicle sales. Certain fleet transactions, particularly daily rental, are generally less profitable than retail sales. A significant portion of the sales to daily rental car companies are recorded as operating leases under U.S. GAAP with no recognition of revenue at the date of initial delivery due to guaranteed repurchase obligations. The following table summarizes estimated fleet sales and those sales as a percentage of total retail vehicle sales (vehicles in thousands): Years Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 GMNA 795 814 758 GME 544 505 490 GMIO 345 414 415 GMSA 121 176 184 Total fleet sales 1,805 1,909 1,847 Fleet sales as a percentage of total retail vehicle sales 18.1 % 19.2 % 19.0 % The following table summarizes U.S. fleet sales (vehicles in thousands): Years Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Daily rental sales 400 449 439 Other fleet sales 278 255 217 Total fleet sales 678 704 656 Fleet sales as a percentage of total U.S. retail vehicle sales Cars 29.3 % 29.5 % 26.4 % Trucks 19.7 % 21.8 % 24.2 % Crossovers 17.5 % 19.1 % 18.6 % Total vehicles 22.0 % 24.0 % 23.6 % Product Pricing 3 Table of Contents GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Several methods are used to promote our products, including the use of dealer, retail and fleet incentives such as customer rebates and finance rate support. The level of incentives is dependent in large part upon the level of competition in the markets in which we operate and the level of demand for our products. In 2016 we plan to continue to price vehicles competitively, including offering incentives as required. We believe this strategy, coupled with sound inventory management, will continue to strengthen the reputation of our brands. Cyclical Nature of Business Retail sales are cyclical and production varies from month to month. Vehicle model changeovers occur throughout the year as a result of new market entries. The market for vehicles depends on general economic conditions, credit availability and consumer spending. Relationship with Dealers We market vehicles worldwide primarily through a network of independent authorized retail dealers. These outlets include distributors, dealers and authorized sales, service and parts outlets. The following table summarizes the number of authorized dealerships: December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 GMNA 4,886 4,908 4,946 GME 6,330 6,633 7,087 GMIO 7,755 7,699 7,472 GMSA 1,281 1,272 1,201 Total worldwide 20,252 20,512 20,706 We and our joint ventures enter into a contract with each authorized dealer agreeing to sell to the dealer one or more specified product lines at wholesale prices and granting the dealer the right to sell those vehicles to retail customers from an approved location. Our dealers often offer more than one GM brand at a single dealership in a number of our markets in order to enhance dealer profitability. Authorized dealers offer parts, accessories, service and repairs for GM vehicles in the product lines that they sell using GM parts and accessories. Our dealers are authorized to service GM vehicles under our limited warranty program and those repairs are to be made only with GM parts. Our dealers generally provide their customers access to credit or lease financing, vehicle insurance and extended service contracts provided by GM Financial and other financial institutions. The quality of GM dealerships and our relationship with our dealers and distributors are critical to our success as dealers maintain the primary sales and service interface with the end consumer of our products. In addition to the terms of our contracts with our dealers we are regulated by various country and state franchise laws that may supersede those contractual terms and impose specific regulatory requirements and standards for initiating dealer network changes, pursuing terminations for cause and other contractual matters. Research, Product and Business Development and Intellectual Property Costs for research, manufacturing engineering, product engineering and design and development activities relate primarily to developing new products or services or improving existing products or services including activities related to vehicle emissions control, improved fuel economy, the safety of drivers and passengers, urban mobility and autonomous vehicles. In the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 research and development expenses were $7.5 billion , $7.4 billion and $7.2 billion . Product Development The Product Development organization is responsible for designing and integrating vehicle and powertrain components to maximize part sharing across multiple vehicle segments. Global teams in Design, Program Management, Component & Subsystem Engineering, Product Integrity, Powertrain and Purchasing & Supply Chain collaborate to meet customer requirements and maximize global economies of scale. Our global vehicle architecture development has been consolidated and headquartered at our Global Technical Center in Warren, Michigan, to further the standardization of our overall vehicle development process. Cross-segment part sharing is an essential 4 Table of Contents GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES enabler to our Vehicle Set Strategy, designed to reduce our overall number of global vehicle architectures to four major vehicle sets. As we implement the four vehicle sets, we will continue to leverage our current architecture portfolio to accommodate our customers around the world while achieving our financial goals. Hybrid, Plug-In, Extended Range and Battery Electric Vehicles We are investing significantly in multiple technologies offering increasing levels of vehicle electrification including eAssist, plug-in hybrid, full hybrid, extended range and battery electric vehicles. We currently offer five models in the U.S. featuring some form of electrification and continue to develop plug-in hybrid electric vehicle (PHEV) technology and extended range electric vehicles such as the Chevrolet Volt and Cadillac ELR. In 2015 we introduced the second-generation Chevrolet Volt. We also debuted the Chevrolet Bolt EV concept at the 2015 North American International Auto Show in Detroit, Michigan and the Cadillac CT6 PHEV at the 2015 Shanghai Auto Show. The Bolt EV will be an all-electric vehicle when it goes into production at our Orion Assembly plant in late 2016, providing more than 200 miles of range on a full charge. OnStar, LLC OnStar, LLC (OnStar) is a wholly-owned subsidiary of GM serving more than 6.6 million subscribers in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, China (through a joint venture) and selected markets in Europe (launched in August 2015). OnStar is a provider of connected safety, security and mobility solutions and advanced information technology and is available on the majority of our 2016 model year vehicles. OnStar's key services include automatic crash response, stolen vehicle assistance, remote door unlock, turn-by-turn navigation, vehicle diagnostics, hands-free calling and 4G LTE wireless connectivity. OnStar has developed a system based on the findings of a Center for Disease Control and Prevention expert panel which allows OnStar advisors to alert first responders when a vehicle crash is likely to have caused serious injury to the occupants. OnStar also offers a mobile application to provide subscribers with up-to-date vehicle information such as oil level, tire pressure and fuel level as well as remote start, remote door lock and unlock and navigation services from a mobile phone. Car- and Ride-Sharing In January 2016 we announced the next step in our strategy to redefine personal mobility with a new car-sharing service called Maven, which combines our multiple car-sharing programs under a single brand and will expand its offerings to multiple cities and communities across the U.S. Maven gives customers access to highly personalized, on-demand mobility services. In January 2016 we purchased a 9% equity ownership interest in Lyft, Inc. (Lyft), a privately held company, for $0.5 billion, which we will leverage to expand our ride-sharing offerings. We also plan to develop with Lyft an integrated network of on-demand autonomous vehicles in the U.S. Autonomous Technology We see automation and autonomous technology leading to significant advances in convenience, mobility and safety, since more than 90% of crashes are caused by driver error. We have millions of miles of real-world experience with embedded connectivity through OnStar and advanced safety features that are the building blocks to more advanced automation features and eventually to fully autonomous vehicles. An example of an advanced automation is Super Cruise, a hands-free driving customer convenience feature that we expect to debut in 2017 on the Cadillac CT6 sedan. We are also working on autonomous systems and in 2016 plan to demonstrate the capabilities of a fleet of Chevrolet Volts on our 20,000-employee Global Technical Center campus. These vehicles will be ordered by a mobile phone application to go to the requested location and drive employees to their destination. Alternative Fuel Vehicles We believe alternative fuels offer significant potential to reduce petroleum consumption in the transportation sector. By leveraging experience and capability developed around these technologies in our global operations we continue to develop FlexFuel vehicles that can run on gasoline-ethanol blend fuels as well as vehicles that run on compressed natural gas (CNG) and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG). We currently offer 12 FlexFuel vehicles in the U.S. for the 2016 model year to retail customers plus an additional seven models to fleet and commercial customers capable of operating on gasoline, E85 ethanol or any combination of the two. We continue to study the future role FlexFuel vehicles may play in the U.S. in light of recent regulatory developments and the rate of development 5 Table of Contents GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES of the refueling infrastructure. In Brazil a substantial majority of vehicles sold were FlexFuel vehicles capable of running on 100% ethanol blends. We also market FlexFuel vehicles in other global markets where biofuels have emerged in the marketplace. We produce CNG bi-fuel capable vehicles in Europe such as the Opel Zafira and in the U.S. with the Chevrolet Express and GMC Savana full-size vans (fleet and commercial customers) and the Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra 2500 HD pick-up trucks (commercial and retail customers) that are capable of switching between gasoline or diesel and CNG. In addition we offer the CNG bi-fuel Chevrolet Impala full-size sedan to both fleet and retail markets in the U.S. We offer LPG capable vehicles globally in select markets reflecting the infrastructure, regulatory focus and natural resource availability of the markets in which they are sold. We support the development of biodiesel blend fuels, which are alternative diesel fuels produced from renewable sources, and we provide biodiesel capabilities in other markets reflecting the availability of biodiesel blend fuels. Hydrogen Fuel Cell Technology As part of our long-term strategy to reduce petroleum consumption and greenhouse gas emissions we are committed to continuing development of our hydrogen fuel cell technology. Our Chevrolet Equinox fuel cell electric vehicle demonstration programs, such as Project Driveway, have accumulated more than 3 million miles of real-world driving by consumers, celebrities, business partners and government agencies. These programs are helping us identify consumer and infrastructure needs to understand the business case for potential production of vehicles with this technology. GM and Honda Motor Company entered into a long-term agreement to co-develop a next-generation fuel cell system and hydrogen storage technologies, aiming for the 2020 timeframe. The collaboration expects to succeed by sharing expertise, economies of scale and common sourcing strategies and builds upon GM's and Honda Motor Company's strengths as leaders in hydrogen fuel cell technology. Fuel Efficiency We are fully committed to improving fuel efficiency and meeting regulatory standards through a combination of strategies including: (1) extensive technology improvements to conventional powertrains; (2) increased use of smaller displacement engines and improved and advanced automatic transmissions; and (3) vehicle improvements including increased use of lighter, front-wheel drive architectures. Intellectual Property We generate and hold a significant number of patents in a number of countries in connection with the operation of our business. While none of these patents are individually material to our business as a whole, these patents are very important to our operations and continued technological development. We hold a number of trademarks and service marks that are very important to our identity and recognition in the marketplace. Raw Materials, Services and Supplies We purchase a wide variety of raw materials, parts, supplies, energy, freight, transportation and other services from numerous suppliers for use in the manufacture of our products. The raw materials primarily include steel, aluminum, resins, copper, lead and platinum group metals. We have not experienced any significant shortages of raw materials and normally do not carry substantial inventories of such raw materials in excess of levels reasonably required to meet our production requirements. In some instances, we purchase systems, components, parts and supplies from a single source and may be at an increased risk for supply disruptions. The inability or unwillingness of these sources to supply us with parts and supplies could have a material adverse effect on our production capacity. Combined purchases from our two largest suppliers have ranged from approximately 10% to 11% of our total purchases in the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. Environmental and Regulatory Matters Automotive Emissions Control 6 Table of Contents GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES We are subject to laws and regulations that require us to control automotive emissions, including vehicle exhaust emission standards, vehicle evaporative emission standards and onboard diagnostic (OBD) system requirements. Advanced OBD systems are used to identify and diagnose problems with emission control systems. Problems detected by the OBD system and in-use compliance monitoring may increase warranty costs and the likelihood of recall. Emission and OBD requirements become more stringent each year as vehicles must meet lower emission standards and new diagnostics are required throughout the world without harmonization of global regulations. Zero emission vehicle (ZEV) requirements have been adopted by some U.S. states and there is the possibility that additional jurisdictions could adopt ZEV requirements in the future. While we believe all our products are designed and manufactured in material compliance with vehicle emissions requirements, regulatory authorities may conduct ongoing evaluations of the emissions compliance of products from all manufacturers. This includes vehicle emissions testing, including CO 2 and nitrogen oxide emissions testing in Europe, and review of emission control strategies. U.S. and Canada The U.S. federal government imposes stringent emission control requirements on vehicles sold in the U.S. and additional requirements are imposed by various state governments. Canada’s federal government vehicle emission requirements are generally aligned with the U.S. federal requirements. Each model year we must obtain certification for each test group that our vehicles will meet emission requirements from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) before we can sell vehicles in the U.S. and Canada and from the California Air Resources Board (CARB) before we can sell vehicles in California and other states that have adopted the California emissions requirements. CARB's latest emission requirements include more stringent exhaust emission and evaporative emission standards including an increase in ZEVs offered by the same automaker such as electric and hydrogen fuel cell vehicles. CARB has adopted 2018 model year and later requirements for increasing volumes of ZEVs to achieve greenhouse gas as well as criteria pollutant emission reductions to help achieve the state's long-term greenhouse gas reduction goals. The EPA has adopted similar exhaust emission and evaporative emission standards which phase in with the 2017 model year, but do not include ZEV requirements. These new requirements will also increase the time and mileage periods over which manufacturers are responsible for a vehicle's emission performance. The Clean Air Act permits states that have areas with air quality compliance issues to adopt the California car and light-duty truck emission standards in lieu of the federal requirements. Thirteen states currently have these standards in effect and 10 of these 13 states have adopted the ZEV requirements. The Province of Quebec has also announced its intention to adopt a ZEV requirement. European Union Emissions are regulated by the European Commission (EC) and by governmental authorities in each European Union Member State (EU Member States). The EC imposes emission control requirements on vehicles sold in all 28 EU Member States. We must demonstrate that vehicles will meet emission requirements from an approval authority in one EU Member State before we can sell vehicles in any EU Member States. The regulatory requirements include random testing of newly assembled vehicles and a manufacturer in-use surveillance program. The European Union requirements are equivalent in terms of stringency and implementation to the framework of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe. The existing level of exhaust emission standards for cars and light-duty trucks, Euro 6, was effective in 2014 for new vehicle approvals and 2015 for new vehicle registrations. Future European Union emission standards focus particularly on further reducing emissions from diesel vehicles by introducing new testing criteria based on “real world driving” emissions (RDE). RDE tests will become effective in 2017. The new requirements will require additional technologies and further increase the cost of diesel engines, which currently cost more than gasoline engines. To comply with RDE tests we expect that we will need to implement technologies identical to those already in production to meet U.S. emission standards. These technologies will put additional cost pressures on the already challenging European Union market for small and mid-size diesel vehicles. Gasoline engines are also affected by the new requirements. The measures for gasoline vehicles that require technology to reduce exhaust pollutant emissions will have adverse effects on vehicle fuel economy which drives additional technology cost to maintain fuel economy. In addition, increased scrutiny of compliance with emissions standards following the well-publicized emissions scandal involving an unrelated automotive manufacturer may result in changes to these standards, including the implementation of RDE tests, as well as stricter interpretations of these standards and more rigorous enforcement. This may lead to increased costs, penalties, negative publicity or reputation impact for us. Refer to