Item 7. MD&A. If our operating environment deteriorates for these or other reasons, including a moderate to severe recession in any of the markets in which we operate, it could lead to a significant decrease in new vehicle sales, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Inflationary pressures and persistently high prices and uncertain availability of commodities, raw materials or other inputs used by us and our suppliers, or instability in logistics and related costs, could negatively impact our profitability. Increases in prices, including as a result of inflation and rising interest rates, for commodities, raw materials, energy or other inputs that we and our suppliers use in manufacturing products, systems, components and parts, such as steel, precious metals, non-ferrous metals, critical minerals or other similar raw materials, or increases in logistics and related costs, have led and may 16 Table of Contents GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES continue to lead to higher production costs for parts, components and vehicles. In addition, elevated cost, or reduced availability, of critical materials for our EV propulsion systems, including lithium, nickel, cobalt and certain rare earth metals, could lead to higher production costs for our EVs and could impede our ability to successfully deliver on our EV strategy. Further, increasing global demand for, and uncertain supply of, such materials could disrupt our or our suppliers’ ability to obtain such materials in a timely manner and/or could lead to increased costs. Geopolitical risk, fluctuations in supply and demand, fluctuations in interest rates, any weakening of the U.S. dollar and other economic and political factors have created and may continue to create pricing pressure for commodities, raw materials, energy and other inputs. These inflationary pressures could, in turn, negatively impact our profitability because we may not be able to pass all of those costs on to our customers or require our suppliers to absorb such costs. Our business in China subjects us to unique operational, competitive and regulatory risks. Our business in China is subject to aggressive competition from many of the largest global manufacturers and numerous domestic manufacturers, which have experienced significant growth in customer acceptance, as well as non-traditional market participants, such as domestic technology companies. In addition, our success in China depends upon our ability to adequately address unique market and consumer preferences driven by advancements related to EVs, infotainment, software-enabled connected services and other new technologies while achieving industry-leading affordability. Our ability to fully deploy our technologies in China may be impacted by evolving laws and regulations in the U.S. and China and the unique regulatory landscape in China. Increased competition, continued U.S.-China trade tensions, weakening economic conditions in China or China's level of integration with key components in our global supply chain, among other factors, may result in cost increases, price reductions, reduced sales, profitability and margins, and challenges to gaining or holding market share. Certain risks and uncertainties of doing business in China are solely within the control of the Chinese government, and Chinese law regulates the scope of our investments and business conducted within China. The Chinese government may adopt new regulations that may impact entities operating in China or the ability of non-Chinese entities to obtain critical materials from China, potentially with little advance notice. In order to maintain access to the Chinese market, we may be required to comply with significant technical and other regulatory requirements, including under such regulatory actions, that are unique to the Chinese market, at times with short notice. These actions may increase the cost of doing business in China or limit how we may do business in China, which could materially and adversely affect the profitability and financial condition of our China business. We benefit from many ongoing strategic business relationships, particularly with respect to facilitating access to raw materials necessary for the production of EVs, and a significant amount of our operations are conducted by joint ventures, which we cannot operate solely for our benefit. We are engaged in many strategic business relationships, and we expect that such arrangements will continue to be an important factor in the growth and success of our business, particularly in light of industry consolidation. However, there are no assurances that we will be able to identify or secure suitable business relationships in the future or that our competitors will not capitalize on such opportunities before we do, or that any strategic business relationships that we enter into will be successful. If we are unable to successfully source and execute on strategic business relationships in the future, our overall growth could be impaired, and our business, prospects and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In particular, to secure critical materials for the production of EVs, we have entered, and plan to continue to enter, into offtake agreements with raw material suppliers and make investments in certain raw material suppliers. The terms of these offtake agreements may obligate us to purchase defined quantities of output over a specified period of time, subject to certain conditions. If we are unable to utilize or otherwise monetize the raw materials we are obligated to purchase under these offtake agreements, whether as a result of lower than expected EV production volumes, changes in battery technology that reduce the need for certain raw materials or other reasons, it could materially adversely affect our cash flows and increase our inventory. Further, our investments in raw materials suppliers could expose us to distinct risks not traditionally associated with the automotive sector, and if the raw materials suppliers in which we have invested are unsuccessful, our investments could lose their value. In addition, many of our operations, primarily in China and Korea as well as certain of our battery manufacturing and raw material sourcing operations in the U.S. and Canada, are carried out by joint ventures. In joint ventures, we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities, business incentives or resources as we do and may compete with us outside the joint venture. Joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. Operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions that must further take into consideration our partners' interests. In joint ventures, we are required to foster our relationships with our co-owners as well as promote the overall success of the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes, relationships deteriorate or strategic objectives diverge, our success in the joint venture may be materially adversely affected. Further, because most of the benefits 17 Table of Contents GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. In addition, because we share ownership and management with one or more parties, we may have limited control over the actions of a joint venture, particularly when we own a minority interest. As a result, we may be unable to prevent violations of applicable laws or other misconduct by a joint venture or the failure to satisfy contractual obligations by one or more parties. Moreover, a joint venture may not be subject to the same financial reporting, corporate governance, or compliance approaches that we follow. To the extent another party makes decisions that negatively impact the joint venture or internal control issues arise within the joint venture, we may have to take responsive actions, or we may be subject to penalties, fines or other punitive actions or suffer reputational harm for these activities. The international scale and footprint of our operations expose us to additional risks. We manufacture, sell and service products globally and rely upon an integrated global supply chain to deliver the raw materials, components, systems and parts that we need to manufacture our products. Our global operations subject us to extensive domestic and foreign legal and regulatory requirements, and a variety of other political, economic and regulatory risks, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, including: (1) changes in government leadership; (2) changes in trade compliance, labor, employment, tax, privacy, environmental and other laws, regulations or government policies impacting our overall business model or practices or restricting our ability to manufacture, purchase or sell products consistent with market demand and our business objectives; (3) political pressures to change any aspect of our business model or practices or that impair our ability to source raw materials, services, components, systems and parts, or manufacture products on competitive terms in a manner consistent with our business objectives (including with respect to full utilization of the incentives contemplated by the IRA); (4) political uncertainty, instability, civil unrest, government controls over certain sectors or human rights concerns; (5) political and economic tensions between governments and changes in international economic policies, including restrictions on the repatriation of dividends or in the export of technology, especially between China and the U.S.; (6) changes to customs requirements or procedures (e.g., inspections) or new or higher tariffs, for example, on products imported into or exported from the U.S., including under U.S. or other trade laws or measures, or other key markets; (7) new or evolving non-tariff barriers or domestic preference procurement requirements, or enforcement of, changes to, withdrawals from or impediments to implementing free trade agreements, or preferences of foreign nationals for domestically manufactured products; (8) changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly in Argentina, and interest rates; (9) economic downturns or significant changes in macroeconomic conditions in the countries in which we operate; (10) differing local product preferences and product requirements, including government certification requirements related to, among other things, fuel economy, vehicle emissions, EVs and AVs, connected services and safety; (11) impact of changes to and compliance with U.S. and foreign countries’ export controls, economic sanctions and other similar measures; (12) impacts on our operations or liabilities resulting from U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, those related to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and certain other anti-corruption laws; (13) differing labor regulations, agreements, requirements and union relationships; (14) differing dealer and franchise regulations and relationships; (15) difficulties in obtaining financing in foreign countries for local operations; and (16) natural disasters, public health crises, and other catastrophic events. Any significant disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could disrupt our production schedule. We assemble vehicles at various facilities around the world. Our facilities are typically designed to produce particular models for particular geographic markets. No single facility is designed to manufacture our full range of vehicles. In some cases, certain facilities produce products, systems, components and parts that disproportionately contribute a greater degree to our profitability than others and create significant interdependencies among manufacturing facilities around the world. When these or other facilities become unavailable, either temporarily or permanently and for any number of reasons, including labor disruptions or shortages, supply chain disruptions, the occurrence of a public health crisis or catastrophic weather events, whether or not as a result of climate change, the inability to manufacture at the affected facility has resulted, and may in the future result, in harm to our reputation, increased costs, lower revenues and the loss of customers. We may not be able to easily shift production to other facilities or to make up for lost production. Any new facility needed to replace an inoperable manufacturing facility would need to comply with the necessary regulatory requirements, need to satisfy our specialized manufacturing requirements and require specialized equipment. In addition, substantially all of our hourly employees are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements that must be negotiated from time-to-time, including at the local facility level. As a result, we may be subject to an increased risk of strikes, work stoppages or other types of conflicts with labor unions and employees. Disruption in our suppliers’ operations have disrupted, and could in the future disrupt, our production schedule. Our automotive operations are dependent upon the continued ability of our suppliers to deliver the systems, components, raw 18 Table of Contents GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES materials and parts that we need to manufacture our products. Other than with respect to certain of our offtake agreements with battery raw material suppliers, our use of “just-in-time” manufacturing processes typically allows us to maintain minimal inventory. As a result, our ability to maintain production is dependent upon our suppliers delivering sufficient quantities of systems, components, raw materials and parts on time to meet our production schedules and specifications. In some instances, we purchase systems, components, raw materials and parts that are ultimately derived from a single source and may be at an increased risk for supply disruptions. Any number of factors, including labor disruptions, catastrophic weather events, the occurrence of a public health crisis, contractual or other disputes, unfavorable economic or industry conditions, restrictions on transactions involving certain territories, entities or individuals, delivery delays or other performance problems or financial difficulties or solvency problems, could disrupt our suppliers’ operations and lead to uncertainty in our supply chain or cause supply disruptions for us, which could, in turn, disrupt our operations, including the production of certain higher margin vehicles. When we experience supply disruptions, we may not be able to develop alternate sourcing quickly. Any disruption of our production schedule caused by an unexpected shortage of systems, components, raw materials or parts even for a relatively short period of time could cause us to alter production schedules, increase work-in-process inventory or suspend production entirely, which could cause a loss of revenues or an increase in working capital, which would adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. Pandemics, epidemics, disease outbreaks and other public health crises have disrupted our business and operations, and future public health crises could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Pandemics, epidemics or disease outbreaks in the U.S. or globally, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, have previously disrupted, and may in the future disrupt, our business, which could materially affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and future expectations. Any such events may adversely impact our global supply chain and global manufacturing operations and cause us to suspend our operations in the affected markets. In particular, we could experience, among other things: (1) continued or additional global supply disruptions; (2) labor disruptions or shortages; (3) an inability to manufacture; (4) an inability to sell to our customers; (5) a decline in showroom traffic and customer demand; (6) customer defaults on automobile loans and leases; (7) lower than expected pricing on vehicles sold at auction; and (8) an impaired ability to access credit and the capital markets. Any new public health crisis could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations going forward. Risks related to our intellectual property, cybersecurity, information technology and data management practices Competitors may independently develop products and services similar to ours, and there are no guarantees that GM’s intellectual property rights would prevent competitors from independently developing or selling those products and services. There may be instances where, notwithstanding our intellectual property position, competitive products or services may impact the value of our brands and other intangible assets, and our business may be adversely affected. Moreover, although GM takes reasonable steps to maintain the confidentiality of GM proprietary information, there can be no assurance that such efforts will completely deter or prevent misappropriation or improper use of our intellectual property. We sometimes face attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology networks and systems for the purpose of improperly acquiring our trade secrets or confidential business information. The theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an incident could adversely affect our competitive position. In addition, we have been, and in the future may be, the target of patent enforcement actions by third parties, including aggressive and opportunistic enforcement claims by non-practicing entities. Regardless of the merit of such claims, responding to infringement claims can be expensive and time-consuming. Although we have taken steps to mitigate such risks, if we are found to have infringed any third-party intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay substantial damages, or we could be enjoined from offering some of our products and services. In addition, to prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property, it may be necessary to prosecute actions for infringement, misappropriation or other violations of our intellectual property against third parties. Any such action could result in significant costs and diversion of our resources and management’s attention, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in any such action. Security breaches, cyberattacks and other disruptions to information technology systems and networked products, including connected vehicles, owned or maintained by us, GM Financial, or third parties, such as vendors or suppliers, could interfere with our operations and could compromise the confidentiality of private customer data or our proprietary information. We rely upon information technology systems and manufacture networked and connected products, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information and to manage or support a variety of our business processes, activities and products. Additionally, we and GM Financial collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property and proprietary business information (including that of our dealers and suppliers), as well as personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in data centers and on information technology networks (including networks that may be controlled or maintained by third parties). The secure operation of these systems and products, and the 19 Table of Contents GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES processing and maintenance of the information processed by these systems and products, is critical to our business operations and strategy. Further, customers using our systems rely on the security of our infrastructure, including hardware and other elements provided by third parties, to ensure the reliability of our products and the protection of their data. We also face the risk of operational disruption, failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the third parties that facilitate our business activities, including vendors, service providers, suppliers, customers, counterparties, exchanges, clearing agents, clearinghouses or other financial intermediaries. Such parties and other third parties who provide us services or with whom we communicate could also be the source of a cyberattack on, or breach of, our operational systems, network, data or infrastructure. Despite our security measures and business continuity plans, our information technology systems and networked and connected products may be vulnerable to intrusion, damage, disruptions or shutdowns caused by attacks by hackers, computer viruses or worms, malware (including “ransomware”), phishing attacks, denial of service attacks or breaches due to errors, negligence or malfeasance by employees, contractors and others who have access to these systems and products. Techniques used in cyberattacks to obtain unauthorized access to, disable or sabotage information technology systems are increasingly diverse and sophisticated. Data breaches and other cybersecurity events have become increasingly commonplace, including as a result of the intensification of state-sponsored cyberattacks during periods of geopolitical conflict. The occurrence of any of these events could compromise the confidentiality, operational integrity and accessibility of these systems and products and the data that resides within them. Similarly, such an occurrence could result in the compromise or loss of the information processed by these systems and products. Such events could result in, among other things, the loss of proprietary data, interruptions or delays in our business operations and damage to our reputation. In addition, such events could increase the risk of claims alleging that we are non-compliant with applicable laws or regulations, subjecting us to potential liability or regulatory penalties and related costs under laws protecting the privacy of personal information; disrupt our operations; or reduce the competitive advantage we hope to derive from our investment in advanced technologies. Various events described above have occurred in the past and may occur in the future. Although impacts of past events have been immaterial, the impacts of such events in the future may be material. Security breaches and other disruptions of our in-vehicle systems could impact the safety of our customers and reduce confidence in GM and our products . Our vehicles contain complex information technology systems. These systems control various vehicle functions including engine, transmission, safety, steering, navigation, acceleration, braking, window, door lock functions and battery and electric motors. We have designed, implemented and tested security measures intended to prevent unauthorized access to these systems. However, hackers and other malicious actors have reportedly attempted, and may attempt in the future, to gain unauthorized access to modify, alter and use networks, vehicle software or their systems to gain control of, or to change, our vehicles’ functionality, user interface and performance characteristics, or to gain access to data stored in or generated by the vehicle. Any unauthorized access to, or control of, our vehicles or their systems or any unauthorized access to or loss of data could adversely impact the safety of our customers or result in failure of our systems, any of which could result in interruptions to our business, legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties. Laws that would permit third-party access to vehicle data and related systems could expose our vehicles and vehicle systems to third-party access without appropriate security measures in place, leading to new safety and security risks for our customers and reducing customer trust and confidence in our products. In addition, regardless of their veracity, reports of unauthorized access to our vehicles or their systems or data, as well as other factors that may result in the perception that our vehicles or their systems or data are capable of being "hacked" and lack appropriate safety controls, could negatively affect our brand and harm our reputation, which could adversely impact our business and operating results. Our enterprise data practices, including the collection, use, sharing and security of the personal information of our customers, employees and suppliers, are subject to increasingly complex and restrictive regulations in all key market regions . Under these regulations, which include the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act, and the EU's General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679, the U.K. Data Protection Act of 2018, and other international data protection, privacy, data security, data localization and similar national, state, provincial, and local laws, the failure to maintain compliant data practices could result in consumer complaints and regulatory inquiry, resulting in civil or criminal penalties, as well as have a negative impact on our brand or result in other harm to our business. In addition, increased consumer sensitivity to real or perceived failures in maintaining acceptable data practices could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users or customers from using our products and services. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations will be high and is likely to increase in the future. The growing patchwork of state and country regulations imposes burdensome obligations on companies to quickly respond to consumer requests, such as requests to delete, disclose and stop selling personal information, with significant fines for noncompliance. Complying with these new laws has significantly increased, and may continue to increase, our operating costs and is driving increased complexity in our operations. 20 Table of Contents GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Risks related to government regulations and litigation Our operations and products are subject to extensive laws, regulations and policies, including those related to vehicle emissions and fuel economy standards, which can significantly increase our costs and affect how we do business. We are significantly affected by governmental regulations on a global basis that can increase costs related to the production of our vehicles and affect our product portfolio, particularly regulations relating to fuel economy standards and GHG emissions. Meeting or exceeding the requirements of these regulations is costly, often technologically challenging and may require phase-out of internal combustion propulsion vehicles in certain major jurisdictions, and these standards are often not harmonized across jurisdictions. We anticipate that the number and extent of these and other regulations, laws and policies, and the related costs and changes to our product portfolio, may increase significantly in the future, primarily motivated by efforts to reduce GHG emissions. Specifically, fuel economy and GHG emission regulations at the federal, state or local level or in international jurisdictions could require us to further limit the sale of certain profitable products, subsidize the sale of less profitable ones, change our manufacturing processes, pay increased penalties, purchase additional credits from our competitors or undertake other activities that may require us to incur additional expense, which may be material. These requirements may increase the cost of, and/or diminish demand for, our vehicles. These regulatory requirements, among others, could significantly affect our plans for global product development and, given the uncertainty surrounding enforcement and regulatory definitions and interpretations, may result in substantial costs, including civil or criminal penalties. In addition, an evolving but un-harmonized emissions and fuel economy regulatory framework that could include specific sales mandates may limit or dictate the types of vehicles we sell and where we sell them, which can affect our revenues and profitability. Refer to the “Environmental and Regulatory Matters” section of