Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related-Party Transactions – Major Shareholders” for further information. U.S. judgments may be difficult or impossible to enforce against us or our Board members. Currently, except for Bill McDermott and Vishal Sikka, all members of SAP AG’s Executive Board and all members of the Supervisory Board are
non-residents of the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of SAP and our Board members are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States upon non-U.S.
resident persons or SAP or to enforce against non-U.S. resident persons judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. In addition, awards of punitive damages in actions
brought in the United States or elsewhere might be unenforceable in Germany. Communication and Information Risks Our controls and efforts to prevent the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information might not always be effective. Confidential or strictly confidential information that is related to topics such as our strategy, new technologies, mergers and acquisitions, unpublished
financial results, or personal data, could be prematurely or inadvertently disclosed. This could require us to notify multiple regulatory agencies and, where appropriate, the data owner, which could result in a loss of reputation for SAP. For
example, leaked information during a merger or acquisition deal could cause the loss of our deal target, or our share price could decline in case of prematurely published financial results. This could have an adverse effect on our market position
and lead to fines and penalties. In addition, this could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Financial Risks Our sales
are subject to quarterly fluctuations and our sales forecasts may not be accurate. Our revenue and operating results can vary and have
varied in the past, sometimes substantially, from quarter to quarter. Our revenue in general, and in particular our software revenue, is difficult to forecast for a number of reasons, including: • The relatively long sales cycles for our products • The large size, complexity, and extended timing of individual license transactions • The introduction of new licensing and deployment models such as cloud subscription models • The timing of the introduction of new products or product enhancements by SAP or our competitors • Changes in customer budgets • Decreased software sales that could have an adverse effect on related maintenance and services revenue • The timing, size, and length of a customer’s services projects • Deployment models that require the recognition of revenue over an extended period of time • Seasonality of a customer’s technology purchases • Limited visibility into the ability of acquired companies to accurately predict their sales pipelines and the likelihood that the projected pipeline
will convert favorably into sales • Other general economic, social, environmental, and market conditions, such as the global economic crisis and the current difficulties for countries
with large debt Since many of our customers make their IT purchasing decisions near the end of calendar quarters, and with
a significant percentage of those decisions being made during our fourth quarter, even a small delay in purchasing decisions for our on-premise software could have an adverse effect on our revenue results for a given year. Our dependence on large
transactions has decreased in recent years with a trend towards an increased number of transactions coupled with a decrease in deal size. However, the loss or delay of one or a few large opportunities, which are still characteristic of the large
enterprise segment, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. 18 Part I Item 3 External factors could impact our liquidity and increase the default risk associated with, and the
valuation of, our financial assets. Macroeconomic factors such as an economic downturn could have an adverse effect on our future
liquidity. We use a globally centralized financial management to control financial risk, such as liquidity, exchange rate, interest rate, counterparty, and equity price risks. The primary aim is to maintain liquidity in the Group at a level that is
adequate to meet our obligations at any time. Our total group liquidity was €2,841 million on December 31, 2013. This position is supported by our strong operating cash flows, of which a large part is recurring, and by credit
facilities on which we can draw if necessary. However, adverse macroeconomic factors could increase the default risk associated with our total group liquidity. This could have an impact on the valuation of our financial assets, which could have an
adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. SAP’s investment policy with regard to total group liquidity
is set out in our internal treasury guideline document, which is a collection of uniform rules that apply globally to all companies in the Group. Among its stipulations, it requires that with limited exceptions we invest only in assets and funds
rated BBB flat or better. The weighted average rating of the investments of our total group liquidity is in the range A to A–. We continue to pursue a policy of cautious investment characterized by wide portfolio diversification with a variety
of counterparties, predominantly short-term investments, and standard investment instruments. Management’s use of estimates could
negatively affect our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. To comply with IFRS, management is required to make many
judgments, estimates, and assumptions that affect the reported financial figures. The facts and circumstances as well as assumptions on which management bases these estimates and judgments, and management’s judgment regarding the facts and
circumstances may change from time to time and this could result in significant changes in the estimates and judgments and consequently in the reported financials. Such changes could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit
and cash flows. Current and future accounting pronouncements and other financial reporting standards, especially but not
only concerning revenue recognition, may negatively impact the financial results we present. We regularly monitor our compliance with
applicable financial reporting standards and review new pronouncements and drafts thereof that are relevant to us. As a result of new standards, changes to existing standards, and changes in their interpretation, we might be required to change our
accounting policies, particularly concerning revenue recognition, to alter our operational policies so that they reflect new or amended financial reporting standards, or to restate our published financial statements. Such changes may have an adverse
effect on our reputation, business, financial position, and profit, or cause an adverse deviation from our revenue and operating profit target. Because we conduct operations throughout the world, our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows may be affected by currency and interest
rate fluctuations. Our Group-wide management reporting and our external financial reporting are both in euros. Nevertheless, a
significant portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the euro. Approximately 71% of our revenue in 2013 was attributable to operations outside the euro area and was translated into euros. Consequently, period-over-period changes
in the euro rates for particular currencies can significantly affect our reported revenue and income. In general, appreciation of the euro relative to another currency has an adverse effect while depreciation of the euro relative to another currency
has a positive effect. Variable interest balance-sheet items are also subject to changes in interest rates. Such changes may have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit and cash flows or cause an adverse deviation from our
revenue and operating profit target. For more information about our currency and interest rate risks and our related hedging activity, see
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements section, Notes (24) and (25). 19 Part I Item 3 The cost of using derivative instruments to hedge share-based payments may exceed the benefits of
hedging them. We use derivative instruments to reduce the impact of our share-based payments on our income statement and to limit future
expense associated with those plans. We decide case-by-case whether and to what extent we should hedge this risk. The expense of hedging the share-based payments could exceed the benefit achieved by hedging them. On the other hand, a decision to
leave the plans materially unhedged could prove disadvantageous. This could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit and cash flows or cause an adverse deviation from our revenue and operating profit target. The market price for our ADRs and ordinary shares may be volatile. The market prices of our ADRs and ordinary shares have experienced and may continue to experience significant volatility in response to various factors including, but not limited to: • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • technological innovation by us or our competitors; • quarterly variations in our results or our competitors’ results of operations or results that fail to meet market expectations; • changes in revenue and revenue growth rates on a consolidated basis or for specific geographic areas, business units, products or product categories; • changes in our externally communicated outlook; • changes in our capital structure, for example due to the potential future issuance of addition debt instruments; • general market conditions specific to particular industries; • litigation to which we are a party; • general and country specific economic or political conditions (particularly wars, terrorist attacks, etc.); • proposed and completed acquisitions or other significant transactions by us or our competitors; and • general market conditions. Many of these factors are beyond our control. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been
subject to shareholder lawsuits, including securities class action litigation. Any such lawsuits against us, with or without merit, could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management’s attention and resources, resulting in a
decline in our results of operations and our stock price. Project Risks Implementation of SAP software often involves a significant commitment of resources by our customers and is subject to a number of significant risks
over which we often have no control. A core element of our business is the successful implementation of software solutions to enable our
customers to make their business a best-run business. The implementation of SAP software is led by SAP, by partners, by customers, or by a combination thereof. Depending on various factors, such as the complexity of solutions, the customer’s
implementation and integration needs or the resources required, SAP faces a number of different risks. For example, functional requirement changes, delays in timeline, or deviation from recommended best practices may occur during the course of a
project. These scenarios have a direct impact on the project resource model and on securing adequate internal personnel or consultants in a timely manner and could therefore prove challenging. As a result of these and other risks, SAP and/or some of our customers have incurred significant implementation costs in connection with the purchase and
installation of SAP software products. Some customers’ implementations have taken longer than planned. We cannot guarantee that we can reduce or eliminate protracted installation or significant third-party consulting costs, that trained
consultants will be readily available, that our costs will not exceed the fees agreed in fixed-price contracts, or that customers will be satisfied with the implementation of our software and solutions. Unsuccessful, lengthy, or costly customer
implementation and integration 20 Part I Item 3 projects could result in claims from customers, harm SAP’s reputation, and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Product and Technology Risks There is a risk that undetected security vulnerabilities shipped and deployed within our software products might cause damage to SAP and our
customers. Customer systems or systems operated by SAP itself to provide services could potentially be compromised by vulnerabilities if
they are exploited by hackers. This could lead to theft, destruction, or abuse of data, or systems could be rendered unusable (such as denial of service attack). The detection of security vulnerabilities in our software, our customers’ systems,
or SAP systems used in the provision of services, especially in case of exploitation, could prevent us from meeting our contractual obligations and subsequently might lead to customer claims and reputational damage, which might have an adverse
effect on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Undetected defects in the introduction of new products and product
enhancements could increase our costs, and reduce customer demand. To achieve market acceptance and high customer satisfaction, our new
products and product enhancements often require long development and testing periods. Development work and market introduction are subject to risks. For example, products might not completely meet our stringent high-quality standards, including
security standards, might not fulfill market needs or customer expectations, or might not comply with local standards and requirements. Furthermore, this risk also exists with respect to acquired companies’ technologies and products where we
might not be able to manage these as quickly and successfully as expected. Therefore, market launches, entering new markets, or the introduction of new innovations could be delayed or not be successful. Also, new products could contain undetected defects or they might not be mature enough from the customer’s point of view for business-critical
solutions. The detection and correction of any defects after shipment could be expensive and time consuming and we might not be able to meet the expectations of customers regarding time and quality in the defect resolution process. In some
circumstances, we might not be in a position to rectify such defects or entirely meet the expectations of customers, specifically as we are expanding our product portfolio into additional markets. As a result, we might be faced with customer claims
for cash refunds, damages, replacement software, or other concessions. The risk of defects and their adverse consequences could increase as we seek to introduce a variety of new software products simultaneously at a higher innovation rate.
Significant undetected defects or delays in introducing new products or product enhancements could affect market acceptance of SAP software products and could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial position, profit, and cash
flows. The use of existing SAP software products by customers in business-critical solutions and processes and the relative complexity and
technical interdependency of our software products create a risk that customers or third parties may pursue warranty, performance, or other claims against us for actual or alleged defects in SAP software products, in our provision of services, or in
our application hosting services. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, subject to warranty, performance, or other similar claims. Although our contracts generally contain provisions designed to limit our exposure due to actual or alleged defects in SAP software products or in our provision of services, these provisions may not cover
every eventuality or be effective under the applicable law. Regardless of its merits, any claim could entail substantial expense and require the devotion of significant time and attention by key management personnel. Publicity surrounding such
claims could affect our reputation and the demand for our software. 21 Part I Item 3 Changes in our rights to use software and technologies we license from third parties, which are an
integral part of SAP’s products, could slow down time to market and influence our license pricing and therefore the competitiveness with other software vendors. Furthermore, it could diminish our software’s functional capabilities and
therefore could jeopardize the stability of our solution portfolio offering. The numerous third-party technologies we have licensed and
certain open source software components we use have become an integral part of our product portfolio. We depend on those technologies for the functionality of our software or cloud services. Changes to, or the loss of, third-party licenses as well
as open source licenses being construed could significantly increase the cost of these licenses and significantly reduce software functionality and/or usability of SAP’s software products. As a result, we might incur additional development or
license costs to ensure the continued functionality of our products, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. This risk increases with each acquisition of a company or a company’s
intellectual property assets that had been subject to third-party technology licensing, open source software, and product standards less rigorous than our own. If we are unable to keep up with rapid technological innovations, new business models, and changing market expectations, we might not be able to compete effectively. Our future success depends upon our ability to keep pace with technological and process innovations and new business models, as well as our ability to
develop new products and services, enhance and expand our existing products and services portfolio, and integrate products and services we obtain through acquisitions. To be successful, we are required to shift our products and our go-to-market
approach to a cloud-based delivery model to satisfy changing customer demand. We might not be successful in bringing new solutions, solution
enhancements, and/or services to market before our competitors. We may also face increasing competition from open source software initiatives in which competitors may provide software and intellectual property free and/or under terms and conditions unfavorable for SAP. In addition, we might not be able to generate enough revenue to offset the significant
research and development costs we incur to deliver technological innovations. Moreover, we might not anticipate and develop technological improvements or succeed in adapting our products and processes to technological change, changing regulatory
requirements, emerging industry standards, and changing requirements of our customers and partners. Finally, we might not succeed in producing high-quality products, enhancements, and releases in a timely and cost-effective manner to compete with
products, solutions, and other technologies offered by our competitors, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Our technology and/or product strategy may not be successful or our customers and partners might not adopt our technology platforms and other innovations accordingly. We offer customers a broad portfolio of products, solutions, and services. Our technology strategy centers on SAP HANA as the real-time in-memory
computing platform for analytics and applications. The success of our technology strategy depends on the convergence of SAP HANA with our mobile, cloud, and SAP NetWeaver technology platform. It also depends on the delivery of SAP solutions based on
the SAP HANA platform as well as the success of our new framework to meet changing customer expectations regarding end-to-end user experience. Our technology strategy also relies on our ability to maintain a dynamic network of partner organizations
developing their own business applications using our technology platforms. We might not be successful in integrating our platforms, enabling
the complete product portfolio, harmonizing our user interface design and technology, or bringing new solutions based on the SAP HANA platform to the market as fast as expected. In addition, we may not be able to compete effectively in the area of
managed cloud services. As a result, our partner organizations and customers might not adopt the SAP HANA platform and our managed cloud services quickly enough or they might consider competitive solutions. As a result, this could have an adverse
effect on our reputation, business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. 22 Part I Item 3 Our cloud offerings might be subject to a security attack, become unavailable, or fail to perform
properly. The software used in our cloud portfolio is inherently complex and any defects in product functionality, system stability, or
data center operations that cause interruptions in the availability of our application suite could result in the following: • Lost or delayed market acceptance and sales • Breach of warranty or other contract breach or misrepresentation claims • Sales credits or refunds to our customers or partners • Loss of customers and/or partners • Diversion of development and customer service resources • Breach of data protection and privacy laws and regulations • Customers considering competitive cloud offerings The costs incurred in correcting any defects or errors might be substantial and could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Because of the large
amount of data that we collect and manage, it is possible that hardware failures, defects in our software, or errors in our systems could result in data loss or corruption, or cause the information that we collect to be incomplete or contain
inaccuracies that our customers regard as significant. Furthermore, the availability of our application suite could be interrupted by a number of factors, including customers’ inability to access the Internet, the failure of our network or
software systems due to human or other error, and security breaches, or variability in user traffic for our application suite. Additionally, any loss of the right to use hardware purchased or leased from third parties could result in delays in our
ability to provide our application suite until equivalent technology is either developed by us or, if available, identified. We have
administrative, technical, and physical security measures in place as well as contracts that require third-party data centers to have appropriate security and data protection and privacy measures in place. In this context, customers might demand to
only use specific and/or local data centers. However, if these security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error and malfeasance, or otherwise, and if as a result someone obtains
unauthorized access to our customers’ data, which may include personally identifiable information regarding users, our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer, local data protection and privacy laws or regulations might be
breached, and we could incur significant liability. In addition, our insurance coverage might not cover claims against us for loss or
security breach of data or other indirect or consequential damages. Moreover, defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and time-consuming. In addition to potential liability, if we experience interruptions in the availability of
our application suite, our reputation could be harmed and we could lose customers. Operational Risks Third parties have claimed, and might claim in the future, that we infringe their intellectual property rights, which could lead to damages being
awarded against us and limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. We believe that we will increasingly be subject to
intellectual property infringement claims as the number of products in our industry segment grows, as we acquire companies with increased use of third-party code including open source code, as we expand into new industry segments with our products,
resulting in greater overlap in the functional scope of products, and as non-practicing entities that do not design, manufacture, or distribute products increasingly assert intellectual property infringement claims. Any claims, with or without merit, and negotiations or litigation relating to such claims, could preclude us from utilizing certain technologies in our
products, be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, and require us to pay damages to third parties, stop selling or reconfigure our products and, under certain circumstances, pay fines and indemnify our customers, which could have an adverse
effect on our business, financial profile, profit, cash flows, and reputation. They could also require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on terms that are not favorable to us, cause product shipment delays, subject our products to 23 Part I Item 3 injunctions, require a complete or partial redesign of products, result in delays to our customers’ investment decisions, and damage our reputation. Software includes many components or modules that provide different features and perform different functions. Some of these features or functions may be
subject to third-party intellectual property rights. The rights of another party could encompass technical aspects that are similar to one or more technologies in one or more of our products. Intellectual property rights of third parties could
preclude us from using certain technologies in our products or require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on unfavorable or expensive terms. The software industry is making increasing use of open source software in its development work on solutions. We also integrate certain open source software components from third parties into our software.
Open source licenses may require that the software code in those components or the software into which they are integrated be freely accessible under open source terms. Third-party claims may require us to make freely accessible under open source
terms one of our products or non-SAP software upon which we depend. Claims and lawsuits against us could have an adverse effect on our
business, financial position, profit, cash flows, and reputation. Claims and lawsuits are brought against us, including claims and
lawsuits involving businesses we have acquired. Adverse outcomes to some or all of the claims and lawsuits pending against us might result in the award of significant damages or injunctive relief against us that could hinder our ability to conduct
our business and could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. The outcome of
litigation and other claims or lawsuits is intrinsically uncertain. Management’s view of the litigation may also change in the future. Actual outcomes of litigation and other claims or lawsuits could differ from the assessments made by
management in prior periods. We might not acquire and integrate companies effectively or successfully and our strategic alliances might
not be successful. To expand our business, we have in the past made acquisitions of businesses, products, and technologies. We expect to continue to make such acquisitions in the future. Management’s negotiation of potential acquisitions and alliances and integration of acquired businesses,
products, or technologies demands time, focus, and resources of management and of the workforce. Acquisitions of companies, businesses, and technology expose us to unpredictable operational difficulties, expenditures, and risks. These risks include,
among others: • The selection of the wrong integration model for the acquired company • The failure to integrate the acquired business and its different business and licensing models • The failure to integrate the acquired technologies or products with our current products and technologies • The failure to integrate the acquired company’s operations across SAP’s different cultures, languages, and local protocols, all within the
constraints of applicable local laws • The failure to meet the needs of the acquired company’s customers and partners in the combined company • The diversion of management’s time and attention from daily operations • The loss of key personnel of the acquired business • Material unknown liabilities and contingent liabilities of acquired companies, including legal, tax, accounting intellectual property, or other
significant liabilities that may not be detected through the due diligence process • Legal and regulatory constraints (such as contract obligations, privacy frameworks and agreements, and so on) • Difficulties in implementing, restoring, or maintaining internal controls, procedures, and policies • Practices or policies of the acquired company that may be incompatible with our compliance requirements • An adverse effect on relationships with existing customers, partners, or third-party providers of technology or products • Difficulties in integrating the acquired company’s accounting, HR, and other 24 Part I Item 3 administrative systems and coordination of the acquired company’s research and development (R&D), sales, and marketing functions • Debt incurrence or significant cash expenditures In addition, acquired businesses might not perform as anticipated, resulting in charges for the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets on our statements of financial position. Such charges may
have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. We have entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, alliance arrangements for a variety of purposes, including the development of new products and services.
There can be no assurance that any such products or services will be successfully developed or that we will not incur significant unanticipated liabilities in connection with such arrangements. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks and
we may therefore not benefit as anticipated from acquisitions or alliances. We may not be able to obtain adequate title to, or licenses
in, or to enforce, intellectual property. Protecting and defending our intellectual property is crucial to our success. We use a variety
of means to identify and monitor potential risks and to protect our intellectual property. These include applying for patents, registering trademarks and other marks and copyrights, implementing measures to stop copyright and trademark infringement,
entering into licensing, confidentiality, and nondisclosure agreements, and deploying protection technology. Despite our efforts, we might not be able to prevent third parties from obtaining, using, or selling without authorization what we regard as
our proprietary technology and information. All of these measures afford only limited protection, and our proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable, or otherwise affected. Some intellectual property might be vulnerable
to disclosure or misappropriation by employees, partners, or other third parties. Third parties might independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Finally, third parties might reverse-engineer
or otherwise obtain and use technology and information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we might not be able to protect our proprietary rights against unauthorized third-party copying or utilization, which could have an adverse effect on
our competitive position and our financial position, and result in reduced sales. Any legal action we bring to enforce our proprietary rights could also involve enforcement against a partner or other third party, which may have an adverse effect on our ability, and our
customers’ ability, to use that partner’s or other third parties’ products. In addition, the laws and courts of certain countries may not offer effective means to enforce our intellectual property rights. This could have an adverse
effect on our reputation, business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. SAP’s business strategy focuses on certain business
models that are highly dependent on a working cyberspace. A cybersecurity breach could have an adverse effect on our customers, our reputation, and our business. The key cybersecurity risks currently applicable to SAP include state-driven economic espionage as well as competitor-driven industrial espionage, and criminal activities including, but not limited to
cyber-attacks against on-premise software, hosted, and cloud services. This might result in, for example, leakage of confidential information and intellectual property, defective products, production downtimes, supply shortages, and compromised data
(including personal data). A failure of our cybersecurity measures could expose our business operations and service delivery to the described risks, for example, virtual attack, disruption, damage, and/or unauthorized access. Additionally, we could
be subject to recovery costs, for example, as well as significant contractual and legal claims by customers, partners, authorities, and third-party service providers for damages against us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation,
business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. We may not be able to protect our critical information and assets or to safeguard
our business operations against disruption. SAP is dependent on the exchange of a wide range of information across our global operations
and on the availability of our infrastructure. With regard to our physical environment, we face several key security risks such as industrial and/or economic espionage, serious and organized crime, and other illegal activities, as well as violent
extremism and terrorism. We might be endangered by threats including, but not limited, to social engineering, misuse, or theft of information or assets, or damage to assets by trespassers in our facilities or by people who have 25 Part I Item 3, 4 gained unauthorized physical access to our facilities, systems, or information, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial profile, profit, and cash flows. Our insurance coverage might not be sufficient and uninsured losses may occur. We maintain insurance coverage to protect us against a broad range of risks, at levels we believe are appropriate and consistent with current industry practice. Our objective is to exclude or minimize
risk of financial loss at reasonable cost. However, we may incur losses that are beyond the limits, or outside the scope, of coverage of our insurance and that may limit or prevent indemnification under our insurance policies. In addition, we might
not be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage on commercially reasonable terms in the future. Further, certain categories of risks are currently not insurable at reasonable cost, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial
position, profit, and cash flows. Finally, there can be no assurance of the financial ability of the insurance companies to meet their claim payment obligations. We could incur losses in connection with venture capital investments. Through our
partnership with SAP Ventures, we plan to continue investing in new and promising technology businesses. Many such investments generate net losses and require additional expenditures from their investors. Changes to planned business operations have
in the past, and may in the future, affect the performance of companies in which SAP Ventures holds investments, and that could have an adverse effect on the value of our investments in SAP Ventures, which could have an adverse effect on our
business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Furthermore, tax deductibility of capital losses and impairment in connection with equity securities are often restricted and could therefore have an adverse effect on our effective tax rate.