Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Expected Developments . Security, Data Protection, and Privacy Vision and Strategy Every day, organizations around the world trust SAP with their data – either on premise at their physical locations, in the cloud, or when using mobile devices while on the move. Our customers need to know that our goal is to keep their data safe, process it in a manner that complies with local legislation, and protect it from malicious use. For this reason, cybersecurity and security, as well as data protection and privacy, are of paramount importance to us. SAP Global Security Cloud solutions and services are increasingly important to many companies' daily operations. Organizations today are facing many risk factors and disruptions such as the COVID-19 pandemic , war, political unrest, severe weather, cyberattacks, and supply chain disruption, making digital solutions critical to business resilience. As a result, digital transformation is accelerating and cybersecurity is now even more crucial to IT security professionals and business leaders, particularly in those enterprises that have moved their core processes to the cloud. The SAP strategy is focused on helping customers transform into intelligent, sustainable enterprises. Our SAP Global Security (SGS) organization supports this journey with a goal of reducing risk and promoting regulatory compliance, and by aligning people, procedures, and technology to protect business processes and data. The organization embraces and encourages a security-minded culture that embeds security in our development and deployment processes and helps secure digital transformation. SGS supports key stakeholders in our lines of business (LoBs), IT, and the presales organization in securing solutions, and drives operational excellence for security across the enterprise. To protect our organization’s data and assets and support high-quality risk management and reporting, SGS regularly reviews and adapts our security policies, standards, and frameworks. ​ 29 Table of Contents Data Protection With our product and services portfolio, SAP aims to protect the rights of individuals involved and meet relevant local requirements when processing personal data. In addition, we strive to strengthen SAP’s reputation in the long term as a sustainable and trustworthy partner in the market. We have implemented safeguards intended to help protect the fundamental rights of everyone whose data is processed by SAP, whether they are customers, suppliers, partners, prospects, employees, or applicants. We develop and pursue our global data protection and privacy strategy in accordance with our business strategy. Our global data protection and privacy strategy is to constantly monitor the global regulatory data protection compliance landscape, identify relevant stakeholders, and enable them to take necessary measures for their adoption. It is also designed to safeguard the processing of personal data. The strategy consists of four pillars to help  comply with applicable data protection laws and regulations. These pillars comprise the global data protection and privacy policy; mandatory global data protection and privacy training for employees; our global data protection and privacy coordinator network; and the global data protection management system – and all aiming to ensure that we comply with applicable data protection laws. Due Diligence for Security Topics Governance SGS is led by a chief security officer who reports directly to the SAP CEO. SGS divisions are responsible for areas such as product and application security, cyberdefense, operational security risk management, security compliance, executive protection, physical security, as well as a Trust Office that supports customers and partners with security-related issues. The SAP Security Governance Model is designed to ensure executive engagement and facilitates shared responsibility in quarterly SAP Security Advisory Board and bi-monthly Security Council meetings, as well as in biweekly updates to the Executive Board. Our commitment to customers is to be open and transparent about security vulnerabilities. To ensure this, we work with several external stakeholder groups including SAP user groups for the Americas and for German-speaking countries. Guidelines and Policies The purpose of the SAP Global Security Policy is to provide governance and structure for an appropriate and effective level of information security within SAP and our affiliated businesses. Aligned with the overall SAP corporate strategy and vision, it details the management intent, expectations, and strategic goals and objectives for SAP security. This policy provides high-level requirements for numerous security domains. These include, but are not limited to, access control, physical security, network security management, incident response, and acceptable use. These requirements apply to all SAP employees, contractors, consultants, as well as external parties that are granted access to SAP information and information assets. SAP reviews the policy annually and enacts modifications as deemed appropriate and necessary to protect SAP and our own and our customers’ data and assets where new threats or vulnerabilities are identified. All SAP employees are required to read and adhere to this internal policy. The SAP Security Policy Framework consists of several levels of security documents that support the requirements described in the policy. In addition, the different LoBs at SAP may have supporting policies, standards, procedures, and practices. Due Diligence for Data Protection Topics Governance Within the scope of their responsibilities, our global data protection officer (DPO) monitors the compliance of activities involving the processing of personal data. The DPO reports to the SAP CFO. Within the Executive Board, the SAP CFO is responsible for compliance and enforcement of data protection and privacy. The DPO owns the SAP Global Data Protection and Privacy Policy that addresses SAP’s data protection governance, and regularly informs the CFO about the status of data protection compliance in the SAP Group. To meet and ensure consistent security and data protection compliance, SAP has implemented a formal governance model that assigns clear responsibilities across the SAP Group. Upon request, the DPO attends steering committee meetings and reports on matters relevant to data protection to the Audit and Compliance Committee of the SAP Supervisory Board. No requests from the Supervisory Board in 2022. SAP has established a global network of data protection and privacy coordinators (DPPCs) across all SAP Group entities that process personal data. This DPPC network consists of regional and local DPPCs and is aimed to ensure data protection and privacy compliance on a local level. The DPPC network increases awareness by conducting local training and monitoring the legal landscape. Where new data protection laws evolve, the DPPC network also helps the Data Protection and Privacy (DPP) team acting on behalf of the DPO identify and analyze them. If this requires compliance activities, they align with the affected LoBs and help drive the relevant implementation. Supported by the DPPC network, the DPP team regularly engages with SAP’s government relations team to represent SAP’s interests in the legislative process. In this regard, SAP participates in external working groups to help align industry-specific interests with respective governments. ​ 30 Table of Contents SAP has implemented a data protection management system (DPMS) for our organization. The DPMS is set according to the generally recognized standard for data protection management systems as defined in the British Standard BS 10012, which comprises the data protection requirements of the European Union (EU) General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) since version 10012:2017. The DPMS covers almost all LoBs (excluding Qualtrics) and is planned to be implemented in all acquired companies as well. It is designed as a framework covering all aspects of data protection compliance of SAP organizations and employees. The DPMS is used as SAP’s standard methodology to ensure compliance with data protection legislation. The maintenance of the framework is subject to certification from the British Standards Institution that confirms data protection compliance annually. Guidelines and Policies The SAP Global Data Protection and Privacy Policy outlines a group-wide minimum standard for data protection-compliant processing of personal data. It defines requirements for business processes that involve personal data and assigns clear responsibilities. The principles established by this policy take into account the requirements of the EU GDPR. They apply generally and globally to SAP Group affiliates. Additional data protection and privacy requirements, if applicable, are adopted on a local level as necessary. We actively monitor changes to applicable laws and regulations so that we can update our standards on an ongoing basis as necessary to meet data protection compliance. The policy was last updated in 2021. How We Measure and Manage Our Performance Security Compliance processes at SAP adhere to trust-service criteria established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). Our security, availability, privacy, confidentiality, and processing integrity controls are designed to achieve the appropriate control objectives. In addition, independent, external auditing partners regularly conduct security compliance audits. SAP discloses vulnerabilities on the second Tuesday of every month (“Patch Day”). This disclosure mechanism provides customers with authoritative, public information about SAP software vulnerabilities from SAP that can be integrated with their existing risk management processes and tools. SAP strives to reduce risk by continuously improving our processes for detecting and remediating attacks and vulnerabilities. To that end, we: - Engage in internal and external audits across SAP globally - Monitor and support our cloud and IT units with over 2,800 controls that are audited and tested for design and operating effectiveness - Offer service organization control (SOC) reports – such as SOC 1 Type II/ISAE 3402 and SOC 2 Type II/ISAE 3000 – to provide insights into the design and operating effectiveness of internal control systems implemented within cloud delivery units - Let external internationally accredited auditors assess and certify our cloud services according to various reporting standards and ISO certifications, such as ISO 9001, ISO 27001, ISO 27017, ISO 27018, and ISO 22301, in addition to BS 10012 Data Protection To help ensure necessary knowledge about data protection, global data protection and privacy training is mandatory for SAP employees. The training is conducted every two years, with the latest rolled out in 2021. This training helps our workforce handle personal data with due care and in accordance with the law and to maintain compliance with data protection requirements in their work. We monitor compliance of data protection-relevant procedures across SAP. We maintain a record of processing activities (“procedure enrollment tool”), in which procedures that process personal data must be documented. The record entries contain general information about the procedure according to defined criteria necessary to meet proper documentation. The record entries are reportable and regularly reviewed. We also track the quality of our data protection compliance level based on the annual recertification of our DPMS by the British Standards Institution (BSI). SAP has been audited by the BSI annually and awarded certifications according to BS 10012 since 2011. The most recent certification is valid until year-end 2025. SAP's own quality standards and international regulations require careful selection and monitoring of subprocessors processing personal data on behalf of SAP and SAP customers. With the goal that all subprocessors meet protection and security requirements for the processing of personal data, SAP has implemented a subprocessor verification process. All of SAP's subprocessors (for example, suppliers, vendors, and partners) are subject to this process. The process comprises three main compliance criteria for data protection-relevant subprocessors: (i) contractual compliance; (ii) self-assessments based on a questionnaire including transfer impact assessments on international data transfers to third countries; and (iii) remote and/or on-site audits. SAP respects the rights of the data subjects to obtain information as to whether or not personal data concerning them is being processed. All necessary information is made available to the data subjects within the framework of the privacy statements on the respective SAP Web sites. In 2022, SAP experienced three significant incidents in processing personal data – on our own behalf – that were subject to GDPR only and were reported to the supervisory authorities. ​ 31 Table of Contents Related Risks for SAP For related financial risks, see the Risk Factors section, specifically the Cybersecurity and Security and Data Protection and Privacy subsections. Human Capital Resources Vision and Strategy People are at the heart of our organization. Aiming for a highly engaged, diverse, future-fit workforce equipped with the right skills helps SAP attract the best talent. Our People & Operations Strategy connects with our product and go-to-market strategies to utilize the combined power of our people, processes, and technology. Since 2020, we have been evolving our annual execution of our People Strategy Pillars that contribute to our business strategy and value generation. They can be summarized across three themes, powered by operational excellence and showcasing SAP solutions for human experience management (HXM): – Building Skills for the Future by attracting the best and most diverse talent and continuously up-/reskilling our people – Driving SAP’s Winning Culture by fostering a culture that enables and rewards impact and business outcomes – Changing the Way We Lead by driving for accountability and empowerment, in a healthy, inclusive, and diverse environment Due Diligence Governance Since January 1, 2021, Sabine Bendiek has served as Chief People & Operating Officer and Labor Relations Director. The People & Operations organization set up remains unchanged from 2021 to best support our People Strategy, including the following functional areas: Future of Work (including Global Health & Well-Being), Global Diversity & Inclusion, SAP Learning, Talent Attraction, Total Rewards, and our Global People Success Services team combining the HR Business Partner organization with Global HR Service Delivery. Guidelines and Policies SAP is committed to ensuring the fair and equal treatment of all employees in a sustainable manner. For that reason, we established comprehensive policies that guide us in our daily business. Examples are our SAP Global Antidiscrimination Statement and SAP Health, Safety & Well-Being Commitment Statement. How We Measure and Manage Our Performance The impact of our people strategy is measured by seven KPIs (see table “Our Key People-Related KPIs at a Glance”). Five out of the seven KPIs are based on the results of our engagement survey program #Unfiltered. 10 With #Unfiltered, we strengthen our commitment to listen regularly to our employees and act together on their feedback. In 2022, we defined excitement for the future of SAP and health and well-being as focus areas. We gauged the sentiment on employee engagement (which includes excitement for the future of SAP), leadership trust, and health and well-being along with other topics twice over the year. The average scores from both data collections were used as the full-year Employee Engagement Index and Leadership Trust Net Promoter Score (NPS). 10 In the #Unfiltered survey in April, 80,117 employees participated (response rate: 73%), and in the #Unfiltered survey in October, 78,226 participated (response rate: 70%). All headcount (HC)-relevant employees and, in addition, in Germany, the non-HC relevant employees on parental leave, on long-term sick leave, with a tenure of more than six months, PhD students, and vocational training students were invited to take part in the 2022 #Unfiltered survey cycle. ​ 32 Table of Contents Our Key People-Related KPIs at a Glance 11 Below is an overview of how we put the three themes of our people strategy and KPIs into practice. Building the Skills for the Future Attracting, hiring, onboarding, developing, and retaining a diverse talent pool is key for the future success of SAP. In 2022, SAP slowed hiring. Competition for talent remains a key concern, so we continue to work on continual talent community building. We have made changes to our employer value proposition to focus on our culture of togetherness, and working to strengthen our brand perception in terms of innovation and sustainability. Our focus on building an inclusive workforce across various demographic aspects, such as generations, gender, and nationalities is key to our efforts to attract people who build SAP’s future. As part of our strategic pillar "Building the Skills for the Future," we focus on our skills transformation. SAP expects a shift in current skills that will cease to exist and new capabilities that will be needed in the future. In some cases, this shift is predictable, while in others it requires an adaptive workforce management approach focusing on continuous skill transformation to ensure our people are equipped to support future work requirements. 11 Employee Engagement Index: Calculated based on the average of the scores retrieved in each of the surveys we run for our engagement survey program “#Unfiltered.” For more information, see the Performance Management System section. The initial target for 2022 was between 84% and 86% and was adjusted half year to 80%. For 2023 through 2025, our ambition of 84%-86% remains. Leadership Trust Score: Measures the extent to which our work environment is based on trust and trust in our leadership. It is calculated based on the average of the scores retrieved in each of the surveys we run for our engagement survey program “#Unfiltered”. We measure leadership trust by an NPS methodology, so it is calculated as % Promoters (9 and 10) minus % Detractors (1 – 6) on a 10-pt scale. Business Health Culture Index (BHCI): Indicates the extent to which SAP successfully offers employees a working environment that promotes health supporting their long-term employability and their active engagement in reaching our corporate goals. The index covers questions concerning how employees rate their personal well-being and the working conditions at SAP, including our leadership culture. The BHCI is calculated based on the results of our #Unfiltered program (April 2022 survey). For 2023 through 2025, our ambition remains to keep the BHCI between 78% and 80%. Innovation Index: Indicates to what extent we foster an innovation culture. The index is measured by three questions in our #Unfiltered program (April 2022 survey). Simplification of Processes: Shows the impact of our continued efforts to simplify our processes. The index is measured by nine questions in our #Unfiltered program (April 2022 survey). ​ 33 Table of Contents Employee Retention: Ratio of the average number of employees minus the employees who voluntarily departed, to the average number of employees, taking into account the past 12 months (in full-time equivalents, or FTEs). This ratio puts emphasis on employee-initiated turnover. In other words, we seek to measure how many employees choose to stay with SAP. As opposed to keeping a low turnover rate, we aim to keep our retention rate high. The number of voluntarily departed employees excludes the voluntary part of restructuring-related departures for more transparency and precise headcount management purposes. Women in Management: We define “women in management” as the share of women in management positions as compared to the total number of managers, expressed by the number of individuals and not FTEs. It includes three categories: 1) Managers managing teams: Refers to managing teams of at least one employee or vacant positions; 2) Managers managing managers: Refers to managing managers who manage teams; and 3) Executive Board members. For 2023, we will keep our ambition to increase the rate of women in management to 30%. Our aspiration is to reach gender parity in our workforce at all levels and to retain women leaders. Talent Attraction, Development, and Retention ​ External hires 14,307 (FTE) (2021: 13,854) employees of which 38.1% were women (2021: 38.1%) Early Talent 12 hires and pipeline programs ​ - Early Talent hires: Out of 14,307 hired employees, 24.5% (FTE) (2021: 33.1%) are Early Talents. - SAP Student Training and Rotation (SAP STAR) program: More than 1,300 students (from Australia, Brazil, China, Germany, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Japan, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea, Switzerland, and the United States). Conversion rate 13 of 78% (2021: 75%) - Cooperation with academic institutions: More than 2,800 (events, executive lectures, office visits, competitions) - SAP Internship Experience Program: 1,662 (2021: 1,461) global participants in 22 countries Global onboarding ​ - New global onboarding program introduced to help new hires understand SAP’s culture, strategy, and transformation story. - Twelve-hour long immersive live experience and companion learning journey; more than 3,500 new hires attended the sessions in Q3 and Q4 2022; customer satisfaction (CSAT) score of 4.4/5. Continuous learning and upskilling ​ - Self-paced online programs and live interactive training, including courses for technical, functional, and professional skills, as well as a broad peer-to-peer learning portfolio, are open to all employees. - Role-based skills program for customer-facing functions 14 to close solution-related skills gaps (completion rate across all levels: 86%) 15 -We aim to keep a high level of employee learning participation: In 2022 the participation rate was at 98%; trackable learning at >3 million hours (2021: more than 3 million); SAP cloud journey upskilling program with 34,233 employees (2021: 22,574) Succession management process ​ We continue to work on clearly defining our succession pipeline, supporting targeted development, and facilitating Executive Board exposure for identifying incumbents and successors of critical and highest value-generating roles. 12 “Early Talents” (defined as hires with 0–3 years of experience in a professional setting hired into professional roles) 13 Unlimited contracts after SAP STAR program 14 The role-based skill program is mandatory for all SAP employees within the area of Customer Success (CS) – excluding contract employees in Germany within CS roles, where the program is considered “highly recommended”. 15 The role based skill program consists of three levels: L100 completion rate 87.61%, L200 completion rate 83.16%, and VoS completion rate 87.93%. ​ 34 Table of Contents SAP Alumni Network ​ 20,054 former employees (2021: 14,909); 5,444 current employees (2021: 4,379) Candidate and hiring manager experience ​ - It is our goal to create a great experience in every interaction to differentiate SAP. With Qualtrics feedback surveys, we aim to provide transparency on candidate and hiring manager feedback to continuously improve our hiring practices. - Candidate Experience 16 : 4.24; Hiring Manager Experience 17 : 4.62; Quality of Hire: 1. 96%, 2. 69% 18 Average tenure ​ 8.3 years (2021: 8.0 years) Earned employer recognitions ​ 154 (2021: 160) ​ Driving SAP’s Winning Culture With our next-generation performance management approach, we aim to establish a high-performance focus by linking business goals to the impact of individuals and teams with development opportunities and meaningful reward packages. It is critical that our employees see the link between their individual contribution and SAP's future success. 16 The score is based on three questions (scale: 1 being the lowest, 5 the highest answer) about the experience with the recruiter, their ability to represent the company and opportunities within, as well as their ability to serve as strategic advisor to find the best fit within the company for the candidate. 17 This is a weighted average of the of the candidate touchpoint survey: Career Site, Post-Application, Post-Interview, and Post-Decision. 18 Score 1 is based on the question: “Would you hire this employee again?”; Score 2 is based on the question: “Has this employee ‘raised the bar’ for your team?” ​ 35 Table of Contents Goal Setting and Reward Structure ​ Smart and transparent goal-setting approaches and continuous dialogue - SAP’s top leadership set goals for their organization and made them visible to all employees on our internal corporate strategy site, kicking off a goal cascade through all required leadership levels down to team and employee goal setting January through March. Ninety percent of our workforce documented their performance goals in 2022 (2021: 92%). 19 - Annual “People Day” in early March: All employees were given time to reflect on SAP’s strategy and connect their goals and development to SAP’s strategy. - The goal of SAP Talk sessions and check-ins throughout the year is to create manager and employee dialogue, discuss goals defined after the SMART 20 Framework, and agree upon and document those goals. Holistic Total Rewards value proposition ​ Key highlights of our rewards experiences, which we aim to deliver through the evolution of short-term incentive and recognition landscapes, strengthening focus on pay for performance, transforming equity programs, and repositioning benefit offerings included: - Share-based compensation program, Move SAP, to drive ownership and enable a “true cloud” compensation through share-settled awards in most of the countries, quarterly vesting events - Approximately 79% (2021: 78%) of employees overall participated in Own SAP, our global share purchase plan, with an investment of 9,183,599 shares (2021: 5,655,937) SAP’s contribution to the investment made by plan participants was doubled from 40% to 80% from January to March in light of SAP’s 50-year anniversary. - SAP’s short-term incentive landscape focused on cloud transformation and growth by using growth in current cloud backlog (CCB) as a unified KPI. 21 - First annual global pay equity analysis, 22 with adjustments made for individuals who fell below acceptable range of salary differences among peers. - “Pay for performance” so that everyone’s unique contribution can be fairly and clearly reflected. We strategically allocated a portion of the overall global rewards investment to targeted employee groups, in addition to the allocation to the broad-based population, in order to drive balanced outcomes and differentiate performance. ​ For more information, see the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Note (B.3). Changing the Way We Lead Strong, future-oriented leadership is key for successfully executing our strategy and becoming more agile, ethical, inclusive, and accountable. 19 M&A teams that are not yet using Success Map are excluded. 20 SMART is an acronym that stands for Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Realistic, and Timely. 21 Used in our sales leadership plans as a primary KPI, in non-quota carrying sales plans as a secondary KPI, and in our revenue enabling plans as the core basis of evaluating our company success. For a definition of CCB, see the Performance Management System section. 22 Executives and non-headcount relevant employees were not within the scope of the global pay equity analysis. ​ 36 Table of Contents Leadership Culture ​ Empowering and guiding our leaders - Rollout of leadership expectations in 2022 as a blueprint of what great leadership at SAP looks like while exemplifying and embracing our leadership credo: “Do what’s right. Make SAP better for generations to come.” - Creation of a consistent approach to leadership engagement across all levels Reinforcing leadership culture ​ - Traditional, peer, and experiential learning journeys focused on building management, leadership, and cloud skills - Built accountability into critical processes and provide transparency to the Executive Board on leadership KPIs Consistent enablement of leaders ​ - Scaled delivery of our leadership programs such as the SAP Leadership Summit, Cloud Business Simulations, Leadership Culture Workshop, and Psychological Safety for Teams, among others. - Percentage of leaders 23 who have completed at least one relevant learning asset: 31% - Percentage of global senior executives who have completed relevant development offerings: 94% ​ In addition to our leadership culture, one further strategic pillar is to pursue an agile, entrepreneurial, healthy, and innovative organization – which is even more required considering the volatile, quickly changing environment of today’s world. A Future-Ready, Agile, Healthy, and Innovative Organization ​ Future of Work - Pledge to Flex: Company-wide flex work commitment empowers SAP's employees to choose when and where to work best as roles and tasks permit and considering local legal requirements. - Leveraging advanced technology and new facility concepts in frontrunner locations (London, Montréal, and Zurich) further supports SAP in attracting and retaining the best talent in the tech industry. - With the pandemic-related “work from home” guidance ending in July 2022, the transition to a post-pandemic hybrid working environment was initiated. Latest feedback (Future of Work Pulse #2 in Q3/2022 – a global pulse survey across all countries and all employees) indicates successful adoption in all countries as 77% feel empowered to decide where and when they are doing their job. A holistic enablement framework (for example, flex team workshops or “Moments Together Onsite (MOTO)”) helps employees and leaders to manage a smooth transition back to the office as part of a well-balanced hybrid working model at SAP. Health, safety and well-being ​ - Health, safety, and well-being of our people are cornerstones of a sustainable future of work. A caring culture and compliance with international and local health and safety regulations is an integral part of our business conduct, our duty of care, and our commitment to ethical leadership. SAP’s offerings to support a healthy workplace and work culture were recognized by awards such as the EU-OSHA Good Practice Award and the Corporate Health Award. - COVID-19 response: The SAP Global Pandemic Taskforce continued to coordinate pandemic countermeasures such as free of charge vaccination programs to SAP employees, their dependents, and, in some instances, to the general public. - Flagship programs: - As part of the commitment to a no-stigma, psychologically safe working culture, the “Are you OK?” mental health well-being initiative continued to offer enablement and awareness for employees and leaders. - Mental Health Day on May 31, 2022: Company-sponsored global vacation day for all employees - SAP participated in the Healthy Workplaces Lighten the Load campaign by the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work, helping leaders and employees to discover new ways to lighten the load of life’s stressors. Innovation ​ - SAP.iO accelerates, incubates, and scales startup innovation and explores new business models for SAP. The SAP.iO intrapreneurship program continued to help identify high-potential entrepreneurial employees at SAP and was able to jump-start 232 venture ideas, seeking investment by the SAP.iO Venture Studio. - Hasso Plattner Founders’ Award: Provides the highest internal employee recognition at SAP. ​ 23 The term “leaders” is inclusive of all SAP colleagues who are in a formal executive or people manager role – either managing a team or managing managers. ​ 37 Table of Contents At SAP, we are always striving for inclusion and aiming to reflect the diversity of society in our workforce to innovate in alignment with the needs of the community. As a global organization with employees from 163 nationalities, when we talk about inclusivity and diversity in the workforce, we are talking about a host of different topics, including gender, race, LGBTQ+, and disability. Our new Diversity & Inclusion Strategy is built on three pillars: – Workforce Diversity: We believe in leveraging the widest spectrum of human differences that represent a diversity of identities, thoughts, and perspectives to create business outcomes that help the world run better every day. – Workplace Inclusion: Creating a positive work environment where colleagues can thrive and engage to their fullest potential in driving SAP’s purpose. Inclusion involves active co-creation of the culture where all experiences lead to a feeling of acceptance and belonging. – Marketplace Leadership: We realize the responsibility that comes with being one of the largest tech companies in the world and extend what we do to our entire ecosystem. Equality and Inclusion in the Workplace ​ Gender inclusion, advancement, and equality - Women in the overall workforce: 35% (2021: 34.3%); women in management roles: 29.4% (2021: 28.3%) - Promoting inclusive policies on flexible work arrangements through pledge to flex, enhanced parental leave benefits, and a focus on fair pay - SAP Business Women’s Network focuses on driving impact with intention and engagement with over 3,300 participants for International Women’s Day and more than 150 chapter events across the globe. Autism inclusion ​ - Autism at Work program: Supports a workforce that includes 215 (FTE) (2021: 217) colleagues on the autism spectrum in 15 (2021: 16) countries - Autism Inclusion Network: Employee-led network group focused on spreading autism acceptance - SAP Autism Inclusion Pledge : Extends SAP’s autism inclusion endeavors by sharing what we have learned with our customer and partner ecosystem Race and ethnicity ​ - Reporting creation (SAP Diversity & Inclusion Report) for better tracking in accordance with required regulations in different countries and in line with our diversity and inclusion objectives. - Built on the “Equality for All” initiative by the Human Rights Campaign, SAP supported the Spotlight Black Businesses program to showcase and promote small Black-owned businesses and introduce them to new audiences. - SAP is a new member of the Equal@Work platform of ENAR, the European Network Against Racism. LGBTQ+ inclusion ​ - SAP was among the first supporters of the United Nations Global LGBTI Standards of Conduct for Business and has been partnering with the employee-driven Pride@SAP LGBTQ+ network for more than 20 years. - Recognitions received 2022: Corporate Equality Index of the Human Rights Campaign in Argentina, Chile, and the United States; Swiss LGBTI Label; Australian LGBTQ Inclusion Award by the Australian Workplace Equality Index; and Gold Award at the Pride Index by WorkWithPride in Japan - SAP was also a silver sponsor of Out & Equal 2022 Workplace Summit. Workplace accessibility ​ - Removing barriers for differently-abled persons through new technologies (for example, eye tracking) - Recognized as one of the Best Places to Work for Disability Inclusion (United States): Disability Equality Index Global Employee Network Groups (ENGs) ​ - SAP supports numerous ENGs that offer activities and events in 2022. - Board members were nominated as executive sponsors for ENGs with SAP leadership committed to advance ENG agendas to drive inclusion. ​ 38 Table of Contents Pushing Operational Excellence and Showcasing Human Experience Management Delivering engaging experiences for SAP’s customers starts with our own workforce. A continued emphasis on operational excellence and experience management is key to delivering our human experience management (HXM) solutions and services efficiently, with both empathy and compliance. Examples include the following: – SAP runs SAP SuccessFactors solutions to manage global SAP people data and the SAP Analytics Cloud solution to provide analytics and insights. – Qualtrics solutions are integrated with SAP SuccessFactors solutions, including event-triggered Qualtrics surveys along the employee journey. – We significantly simplified our external SAP Careers Web site using career site builder capabilities in the SAP SuccessFactors Recruiting solution and streamlined the hiring process using the SAP Build Process Automation solution (for example, for candidate background verification). Related Risks for SAP ‘Human rights and employee matters’ is a risk factor that is assessed as part of SAP’s corporate financial risk management system. No financial material risks were identified through our risk framework as described in the Risk Factors section. ​ 39 Table of Contents Energy and Emissions Vision and Strategy For over a decade now, climate action has been at the top of SAP’s corporate sustainability agenda in light of the increasing impacts of climate change and escalating global challenges such as ecosystem decay and biodiversity loss. We aim to take climate action through our dual approach as enabler and exemplar to help pave the way toward a low-carbon future for our customers, partners, and SAP. Due Diligence Governance The Executive Board sponsorship for sustainability and climate action moved from SAP’s CFO to the CEO in June 2022. A newly formed operating segment (‘sustainability’) is now responsible for driving SAP’s holistic, cross-company sustainability agenda. The Office of the Chief Sustainability Officer (oCSO) is part of this new unit and continues to shape, among others, SAP's response to climate change in close cooperation with other departments. Among other things, this new unit is responsible for: – Defining the Environmental Policy and determining a global environmental portfolio to help steer SAP’s impact – Setting reduction and impact targets and embedding sustainability-related initiatives across SAP – Measuring and monitoring carbon emissions on a quarterly basis – Assessing and managing climate-related risks through a quarterly risk review – Managing nature-based investment decisions – Rolling in business requirements to our development units to develop the right solutions Sustainability is a company-wide effort and initiatives are also driven outside the new unit. For example, the global procurement organization aims to ensure that SAP purchases energy-efficient, sustainable products and services. The global real estate and facilities management team designs and operates many SAP facilities based on robust environmental standards such as ISO 14001:2015 and the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification program. Our global cloud services organization attends to the optimization of the energy consumption in our data centers, while our SAP IT department encourages employees to use IT equipment and business software responsibly. In addition, to be able to innovate and evolve sustainability further, we regularly engage externally with various stakeholder groups such as non-governmental organizations (NGOs), investors, customers, and academia. Guidelines and Policies Our Global Environmental Policy provides the core framework for how we manage our environmental impact – in our own operations and with our customers. Updated in May 2022 and approved by the CFO, this policy guides our efforts to improve our ecological footprint, provide environmental performance transparency, and demonstrate sustainable leadership through transformational strategies. In addition, it helps us comply with internationally recognized sustainability standards as well as stakeholder expectations, primarily those of customers, investors, and employees. ​ 40 Table of Contents How We Measure and Manage Our Performance Our Targets Target Base Year Target Year Target Description and Details Carbon neutrality in our own operations by 2023 ​ 2017: 327 kilotons (kt) net carbon emissions 24 ​ 2023: 0 net carbon emissions ​ ● Net carbon emissions = Gross carbon emissions (Scope 1, 2, and selected Scope 3) minus purchased renewable energy certificates (EACs), self-generated renewable energy, and carbon offsets. ● To track progress on our target, we derived annual targets for our internal operational steering. Since the beginning of 2020, these annual targets have been integrated in the Executive Board’s short-term performance-based compensation . See Item 6 – Compensation Report ● Leading environmental target and key in reducing SAP’s own environmental footprint and making a contribution toward limiting adverse consequences of climate change. ​ Science-Based Target based on the Science-Based Target Initiative (SBTi) ​ 2016: 9,188 kt gross carbon emissions ​ Long-term target: Reduction by 85% by 2050 Near-term target: Reduction by 40% by 2025 ​ ● Target includes Scope 1, 2, and all relevant Scope 3 value chain emissions such as our products-in-use emissions at our customers. ● First approved by the SBTi in 2017; reassessed and confirmed by the SBTi in 2019. ● Target reflects the level of decarbonization required to keep the global temperature increase below 1.5 degrees Celsius compared to preindustrial temperature. ● In January 2022, we committed to achieve net zero across our entire value chain by 2030 in alignment with the SBTi Net-Zero Standard, 20 years earlier than originally planned. For this purpose, we started to re-evaluate the baseline, emissions scope, and methodology of our current target with the aim to get a SBTi approved net-zero target. ​ 24 We report all our carbon emissions in CO 2 equivalents (CO 2 e). ​ 41 Table of Contents Performance and Measures to Progress Even though our total number of employees (full-time equivalents) increased 4.2%, our net carbon emissions in 2022 dropped to 85 kilotons (kt), representing a year-over-year decrease of 22.7% (2021: 110 kt). That remains 6% below the lower end of our carbon emissions target of 90 kt to 95 kt which was updated in October 2022 to reflect the catch-up effects in business travel after the COVID-19 pandemic began to subside (original target for 2022: 70 kt). To ensure we reach our carbon neutrality commitment by 2023, SAP will continue and expand existing initiatives and programs to drive efficiency and innovation, following our strategic approach to first avoid, secondly reduce, and thirdly – if no other option is feasible – compensate our residual emissions by investing in high-quality offset projects certified by international standards. As COVID-19 restrictions receded in 2022, we experienced an increase in total energy consumption. 25 This is a result of catch-up effects in business travel and a return to the offices. In addition, in 2022, we introduced two new KPIs: First, with “e-mobility” we recognize the transformation of SAP’s car fleet to emission-free company cars; and second, we began to determine the electricity consumption of our employees working from home, to reflect the changed working habits due to the COVID-19 pandemic and SAP’s pledge to flexible, trust-based working models. We also continued to compensate caused emissions by purchasing high-quality Energy Attribute Certificates (EACs). Looking at the data center electricity 26 , we see a decrease attributable to a shift toward hyperscale services and the implemented energy efficiency measures now taking effect. 25 Due to the (still) very limited control over the energy / electricity procurement of our value chain partners, we excluded the electricity consumption of hyperscale services (upstream value chain, Scope 3) in the graphs “Total Energy Consumption” and “Total Data Center Electricity” for all five years shown. In 2022, hyperscaler electricity was about the same level as the electricity consumption of our co-locations. 26 In 2022, we moved electricity consumption of co-location data centers from Scope 3 to Scope 2 due to the underlying leasing model and SAP’s operational control over the IT infrastructure. In addition, we excluded the electricity consumption of hyperscale services as explained in the footnote above. These changes are applied to all five years shown in the graphs “Total Energy Consumption” and “Total Data Center Electricity”. ​ 42 Table of Contents Our focus on climate action has contributed to a cumulative cost avoidance of €1,018 million in the past three years. We achieved 28% of this cost avoidance in 2022. 27 SAP’s environmental performance has been recognized by sustainability ratings and ranking organizations such as CDP, where we received an A– rating in the climate change assessment released in December 2022, reflecting continuous leadership in this area according to CDP’s methodology. 27 Cost avoidance is a financial key figure that indicates the financial benefits of SAP’s engagement in sustainability measures compared to a business-as-usual scenario where no sustainability measures have been implemented (base year: 2016). ​ 43 Table of Contents Key Initiatives to Avoid and Reduce Emissions ​ ​ Implemented Measures and Initiatives SAP’s sustainability software portfolio SAP delivers sustainability management solutions for sustainability reporting, climate action, circular economy, and social responsibility to enable our customers to run sustainable and resilient operations as described in Item 4 – Our Product Strategy . As co-innovation customer for the Sustainability Control Tower, the Corporate Sustainability team provides input and feedback to the development teams with the aim of leveraging a solution that enables companies to record, report, and act on their sustainability goals. Carbon-neutral cloud solutions and product-in-use emissions ​ The vast majority of our overall carbon emissions result from the use of our software. To address this, we aim to help our customers, hardware providers, and others to run more energy-efficient operations. ● By powering all data centers with 100% renewable electricity, 28 we offer our customers carbon-neutral cloud software solutions and help them reduce their overall carbon emissions (upstream Scope 3). ● In 2021, we started to develop a carbon footprint sizing approach with the aim of enabling our customers to gain transparency on the carbon impact of their SAP applications that run in SAP’s internal and external data centers, answering the question of how much our customers can reduce their environmental footprint by running SAP solutions on SAP’s cloud infrastructure compared to a cloud that is not powered by 100% renewable electricity. ● We collaborate with customers to optimize their on-premise landscapes so that they consume less energy (for example, we decommission legacy systems, archive unused data, consolidate business applications, and virtualize their system landscapes). ISO 14001 ​ ● SAP’s environmental management system (EMS) is implemented in over 50 sites in 29 countries worldwide and certified by the renowned ISO 14001:2015 standard. In 2022, we successfully maintained this certification. ● Target: Increase EMS scope to 100% of SAP’s major company-owned sites by 2025 (2022: 85%). ISO 50001 ​ ● SAP’s headquarters in Germany operates an ISO 50001:2018-certified energy management system. ● 100% of SAP’s own major data centers are ISO 50001-certified (Walldorf, St. Leon-Rot, Newtown Square, Colorado Springs). ● Efficient power usage effectiveness (PUE) 29 at SAP headquarters in Germany and North America: 1.38 ● At SAP’s headquarters, we are in the process of implementing an on-site Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) solar project with the aim of increasing the share of renewable electricity produced on-site and achieving price stability. Running SAP facilities with 100% renewable electricity ​ Since 2014, SAP has been running all its offices and data centers 30 with 100% renewable electricity in alignment with our commitment towards the RE100 initiative. For this, we use two strategic levers: ● Investing in high-quality, EKOenergy-certified EACs to foster renewable energy generation ● Producing renewable electricity in selective SAP locations worldwide through solar panels (such as Palo Alto, CA, in the United States, and Bangalore, India). This approach allows us to compensate our entire electricity-consumption-related emissions (2022: 257 kt). ​ 28 We achieve this by leveraging 1) investments in high-quality, EKOenergy-certified EACs and 2) on-site produced renewables. The term “data center” refers to both SAP-owned and external data centers (co-location data centers and hyperscalers). 29 The PUE is a ratio that describes the efficiency of a data center, with 1.0 being the ideal. 30 The term “data center” refers to both SAP-owned and external data centers (co-location data centers and hyperscalers). ​ 44 Table of Contents ​ Business flights ​ ● Avoidance of business flights by investing in virtual collaboration and communication technologies. ● Since 2016, we charge an internal carbon price for business flights in the majority of the countries we travel from, to counterbalance the carbon emissions caused by investing in high-quality carbon offset projects. By annually increasing the carbon price per flight ticket that is charged to the organizational cost center, we seek to incentivize the organizational units and employees to fly less or to choose an alternative, sustainable mode of travel. Global car fleet: Transition to electric or zero-emission vehicles ​ From 2025 onwards, all new vehicles ordered as company cars are planned to be emission-free. 31 SAP also promotes various incentives to accelerate this change, such as: ● We power all SAP-owned charging stations at SAP locations with 100% renewable electricity. ● In Germany and the Netherlands, we offer employees a subsidy to install a charging point at home, and reimburse the employees for the electricity consumed. We plan to offer this subsidy to employees in Italy, Portugal, Spain, and Switzerland soon as well. ● In Germany, we offer employees a subsidy to offset the higher costs of a full electric vehicle. ● We continually expand SAP’s global charging infrastructure (2022: 1,125 charging stations; 2021: around 970 charging stations). Alternative commuting ​ To generate a shift in alternative commuting habits and foster inter-/multimodal mobility, we continue to offer various programs, such as: ● Company bike programs: Employees can lease bicycles with the option of purchasing them after contract end. Such programs have already been established in Germany, Belgium, and Luxembourg. ● After successful pilot phases, we will roll out the flexible mobility budget in spring 2023 as a regular mobility alternative in Germany. Participants receive a monthly fixed mobility budget to use any mode of transport to commute to work or in their leisure time (bike, e-scooter, rental car, train, bus, and so on). Fostering biodiversity and nature-based solutions to climate change ​ ● Since 2012, SAP has helped to plant over 14.1 million trees to restore ecosystems and foster sustainable development. SAP will continue to finance nature-based solutions and is committed to plant 21 million trees by the end of 2025. Restored and protected in the right places, trees and forests are invaluable in maintaining planetary stability, slowing climate change, safeguarding biodiversity, and providing critical ecosystem services to people around the world. ● SAP defined important quality criteria for small and large planting projects which SAP expects its implementation partners to meet. These include specific requirements to create positive impact on climate, community, and biodiversity and to provide transparency. ● Since 2021, SAP has been part of the 1t.org Corporate Alliance, which mobilizes business leaders to responsibly conserve, restore, and grow trees worldwide while pursuing the 1.5 degrees Celsius science-based target. 31 Emission-free refers to vehicles that do not emit exhaust gas or other pollutants from the onboard source of power, leading to an outphasing of plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEV) and vehicles with internal combustion engines (ICEV) as corporate cars. ​ 45 Table of Contents Using Carbon Offsets To Compensate for Our Residual Emissions To offset a share of our Scope 1 and Scope 3 emissions that cannot yet be avoided, we invest 32 in different offset schemes with a strategic focus on nature-based solutions to compensate 33 for these emissions (2022: 97 kt): Initiative Committed Investments Description and Details Livelihoods Carbon Funds (LCF) ​ Between the years 2013 and 2021, SAP committed to invest up until 2045 approx. €10 million (accumulated) in LCF1-3 (total investment done by year end 2022: approx. 38%) ​ ● The long-term investments finance much-needed climate action and sustainable development in developing countries through ecosystem restoration, agroforestry, biodiversity preservation, and clean energy projects. ● LCF generates high-quality carbon offsets certified by internationally recognized standards (such as the Gold Standard). ● In 2022, the carbon credits we received for our financial contribution to the LCF helped us offset 17 kt of our emissions, the majority of which was used to compensate for our business flights. ​ LEAF (Lowering Emissions by Accelerating Forest finance) Coalition ​ 2021: SAP plans to invest US$2 million (€1.86 million) 34 ​ ● A voluntary coalition including corporations and governments seeking to halt deforestation by financing large-scale tropical forest protection. ● Under LEAF, jurisdictions commit to preserving their tropical forests. LEAF coalition members commit to purchasing emission reduction credits from reforestation and avoided deforestation, which are validated and verified against the ART’s TREES standard. ​ ​ Related Risks for SAP In 2022, we performed a climate risk and vulnerability assessment to identify physical climate risks (acute and chronic) that are material to the SAP-relevant activity ‘data processing and hosting’, as follows: – Risk screening for all our own and co-location data centers based on a multitude of climate hazards (acute and chronic), 35 using global climate models (representative concentration paths (RCPs) 2.6, 4.5, and 8.5). – Deep-dive exposure analysis for a selected range of climate hazards based on 2°C and 4°C scenarios: heatwaves and extreme precipitation (time horizon: 2021–2050) 36 as well as river flooding and water stress (time horizon: 2030 and 2050). 37 The hazards were selected based on the risk screening outcome and impact on data centers combined with expert discussions. – Vulnerability analysis of our own data centers with high exposures helped us identify the impact and risk of a hazard by considering current and past hazard experiences and implemented mitigation actions. ‘Climate change and air quality’ is a risk factor that is assessed as part of SAP’s Corporate Financial Risk Management System. No financial material risks were identified through our risk framework as described in the Risk Factors section. 32 To finance our investments in high-quality carbon offset projects (for example, certified by the Gold Standard) and EACs, we leverage the collected internal air travel fees charged on business flights. 33 Investments in sustainable projects and the corresponding carbon offsets represent a unit of reduced, avoided, or removed greenhouse gas emissions. 34 Exchange rate date: December 31, 2022. 35 Examples of chronic hazards: changing temperature, heat stress, changing wind patterns, rise in sea level, and soil erosion. Examples of acute hazards: wildfires, water stress, droughts, floods, avalanches, and landslides. 36 Usage of Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) RCP 2.6 and RCP 8.5. 37 Usage of IPCC RCP 4.5 and RCP 8.5. ​ 46 Table of Contents Intellectual Property, Proprietary Rights and Licenses We rely on a combination of the protections provided by applicable statutory and common law rights, including trade secret, copyright, patent, and trademark laws, license and non-disclosure agreements, and technical measures to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our products. For further details on risks related to SAP’s intellectual property rights, see “