Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Expected Developments . Security, Cloud Compliance, Data Protection and Privacy SAP Global Security and Cloud Compliance Cloud solutions and services are increasingly important to many companies’ daily operations. Organizations today are facing many risk factors and disruptions, such as war, political unrest, severe weather, pandemics, cyberattacks, and supply chain disruption, making digital solutions critical to organizational resilience. As a result, digital transformation is accelerating and cybersecurity is now even more crucial to IT security professionals, and to leaders in business and government, particularly in those organizations that have moved their core processes to the cloud. The SAP strategy is focused on helping our customers in their digital transformation. Our SAP Global Security and Cloud Compliance (SGSC) unit supports this journey with the goals of reducing risk and promoting regulatory compliance, and by aligning people, procedures, and technology to protect business processes and data. The organization embraces a security-minded culture that embeds security and compliance in our development, deployment and cloud operations processes and helps secure digital transformation. SGSC supports key stakeholders across SAP in our lines of business (LoBs), IT, and the presales organization in securing solutions, and drives operational excellence for security and cloud compliance across the enterprise. To protect our organization’s data and assets, and support high-quality risk management and reporting, SGSC regularly reviews and adapts our security policies, standards, and frameworks. We strive to protect the rights of data subjects and meet applicable local requirements in both our product and service portfolios. Our approach to data protection, privacy, and security aligns with our overarching business strategy and supports our aim of strengthening SAP’s reputation as a sustainable and trustworthy partner in the market. 31 Table of Contents To further enhance our commitment to security and compliance, security considerations are integrated into every stage of the software development lifecycle. We utilize various methodologies, guidelines, processes, and tools to address and adapt effectively to evolving cybersecurity threats. These safeguards were designed and implemented to protect the fundamental rights of everyone whose data is processed by SAP, and of those who use SAP’s products, including customers, suppliers, partners, prospects, employees, and applicants. SAP Global Security Policy Framework The SAP Global Security Policy Framework is a layered structure of documents consisting of the SAP Global Security Policy and of security standards, procedures, and good practices that define the objectives, values, minimum requirements, and obligations we follow to protect SAP against security threats. - The SAP Global Security Policy 13 is a high-level security document aligned with SAP’s overall strategy and vision to maintain the highest level of security. It defines management intent, expectations, direction, and a responsibility matrix. - SAP Security Standards , owned by central service leaders in SAP Global Security and Cloud Compliance (SGSC) define the minimum security requirements for numerous domains, including risk management, asset management, information classification, physical security, threat detection, and vulnerability management. Requirements are regularly reviewed to ensure they are appropriate, adequate, and effective. - SAP Security Procedures set out detailed steps for implementing and operationalizing the security standard requirements. - SAP Security Good Practices are checklists designed to simplify the implementation process. The objectives of the SAP Global Security Policy Framework are to: - Preserve the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of SAP information and of information entrusted to SAP - Protect all SAP assets from internal and external threats, deliberate or accidental, based on a risk assessment - Fulfill the legal, regulatory, operational, and contractual requirements of SAP The SAP Executive Board is responsible for SAP’s security strategy and endorses the Global Security Policy. The Chief Security Officer and Chief Security Compliance and Risk Officer oversee the policy, ensuring its definition, implementation, monitoring, and development in line with industry standards. Business Information Security Officers (BISOs) lead the security strategy in their respective lines of business and ensure adherence to the policy. All SAP employees and external workers must familiarize themselves with the policy and complete security awareness training. The Global Security Policy Framework is published internally, with regular updates communicated to key stakeholders. Data Protection and Privacy The SAP Global Data Protection and Privacy Policy 14 sets a Group-wide governance standard and creates a structure for the handling of personal data in accordance with data protection and privacy requirements. Where applicable, it references the SAP Global Artificial Intelligence (AI) Ethics Policy, which reflects the guiding principles of the International Bill of Human Rights. The SAP Global Data Protection and Privacy Policy sets out: - The rules and principles for the processing of personal data in the SAP Group. The rules also apply to the personal data of customers, partners, and other third parties to ensure compliance with applicable data protection and privacy laws. - Responsibilities within the organization for the processing of personal data - Guidelines for the organizational execution of data protection and privacy principles The SAP Global Data Protection and Privacy Policy applies to all SAP Group companies and is rolled out to all SAP employees globally by Data Protection and Privacy. All SAP employees and other individuals working on behalf of SAP are obligated to familiarize themselves with this policy and other internal policies governing the handling of personal data. They must commit to keep personal data confidential and not to collect, process, or use personal data without authorization. The global Data Protection Officer (DPO) is responsible for monitoring compliance with data protection laws and regularly reports to the CFO, who is the Executive Board member responsible for data protection compliance matters and the enforcement of data protection and privacy. The DPO is responsible for the SAP Global Data Protection and Privacy Policy, which addresses SAP’s data protection governance, and regularly reports to the CFO on data protection compliance in the SAP Group. To ensure consistent security and data protection compliance, SAP has implemented a formal governance model that assigns clear responsibilities across the SAP Group. Management plays a critical role in establishing data protection requirements and business processes to ensure compliance with applicable data protection and privacy laws. To implement data privacy requirements effectively, management can delegate these responsibilities to various levels of management in the organization. In accordance with these principles, the individual global SAP lines of business (LoBs) have a mandate to implement data privacy requirements within their area of responsibility. 13 The policy was not extended to the acquired companies Taulia or WalkMe. 14 The policy was not extended to the acquired companies Taulia or WalkMe. ​ 32 Table of Contents At local level, operational responsibility for compliance is transferred to the local CFOs, who are supported by a network of local Data Protection and Privacy Coordinators (DPPCs). Unless one has already been appointed by the Data Protection and Privacy team (DPP), each CFO must appoint a local Data Protection and Privacy Coordinator (DPPC), who conducts audits to ensure compliance with regulations. The CFO is also tasked with facilitating these audits and implementing the measures necessary to address compliance gaps. How We Measure and Manage Our Performance Security and Cloud Compliance Compliance processes at SAP adhere to trust-service criteria established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). Our security, privacy, confidentiality, and processing integrity controls are designed to achieve the appropriate control objectives. In addition, independent, external auditing partners regularly conduct security compliance audits. SAP discloses vulnerabilities to customers and provides accompanying patches or instructions when the customer needs to take action. This procedure also applies to the rarer cases where SAP patches to cloud services require customer action. We disclose these instructions using SAP Security Notes published every second Tuesday of the month (Patch Day). This process is further supported by the publication of Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE documents) through MITRE CVE is a disclosure mechanism that provides customers with authoritative, public information from SAP about SAP software vulnerabilities that can be integrated with their existing risk and vulnerability management processes and tools. We strive to reduce risk by continuously improving our processes for detecting and remediating attacks and vulnerabilities To ensure effective implementation of the SAP Global Security Policy Framework we: - Support our cloud and IT units with operational controls that are monitored and tested for design and operational effectiveness. - Have established an independent internal audit function which reports the audit planning and the audit results to the Board of Directors on a regular basis. - Engage external internationally accredited auditors to regularly assess the design and operational effectiveness of the implementation. - Offer service organization control (SOC) reports – such as SOC 1 Type II/ISAE 3402 and SOC 2 Type II/ISAE 3000 for our cloud services, issued by external internationally accredited auditors. - Publish certificates for compliance to international standards, such as ISO 9001, ISO 27001, ISO 27017, ISO 27018, ISO 22301, and BS 10012. - Offer further industry-specific and regional compliance attestations, certifications, and reports via SAP Trust Center. Data Protection SAP monitors compliance with data protection procedures across SAP and maintains a record of processing activities (in a procedure enrollment tool) involving different categories of personal data (applicants, customers, employees, partners/suppliers, and other data subjects). These records contain general information about the procedure according to defined criteria that are necessary to meet proper documentation. The records are reportable and regularly reviewed. We also track the quality of our data protection compliance level based on the annual recertification of our Data Protection Management System (DPMS) by the British Standards Institute (BSI). SAP is audited by BSI annually and has been awarded certifications according to BS 10012 since 2011. The most recent certification is valid until the end of 2025. Global data protection and privacy training is mandatory for SAP employees. It is conducted every two years, most recently in 2023. New hires are required to complete the training when they join the Company. The training is validated as part of the DPMS audit carried out by BSI. The SAP Third-Party Risk Management Process follows SAP’s own quality standards and international regulations, which require the careful selection and monitoring of subprocessors who handle personal data on behalf of SAP and SAP’s customers. The process ensures that all subprocessors meet the necessary data protection and security requirements for the processing of personal data, thereby safeguarding the interests of SAP, its customers, partners, employees, and end users. The data subject rights request process is managed across lines of business and helps customers, employees, and end users exercise their right to receive information about how their personal data is processed, where legally applicable. This process ensures that the rights of data subjects under the applicable data protection laws are upheld, and that all necessary information is easily accessible on SAP’s websites and through other sources. The process is validated as part of the DPMS audit carried out by BSI. In 2024, there were nine notifiable data protection incidents under the GDPR for data that SAP processes for its own purposes and one notifiable data protection incident under the Singapore Personal Data Protection Act and related regulations and guidelines for data that SAP processes for its own purposes. All ten incidents were reported to the relevant supervisory authorities. Related Risks for SAP For related financial risks, see the Risk Factors section, specifically the Cybersecurity and Security and Data Protection and Privacy subsections. 33 Table of Contents Human Capital Resources People Agenda Established in 2024, the People Agenda is a holistic system in which people, organizational, and technological development are interconnected. We have defined three key strategic pillars built on a strong foundation that together make up our People Agenda: –      Our growth culture guides how we work internally and address the market and customers externally. It increases our capacity for change, drives efficiency, and ensures accountability, helping us deliver high-performance results for our customers and markets. By executing in line with our strategy, we strengthen the engagement and commitment of everyone – employees, partners, customers, and shareholders. Additionally, we are investing in comprehensive leadership development programs that will equip all our leaders with the skills to develop teams, lead transformation, and consistently deliver results. While individual growth is important, we also recognize the need to enhance our organizational capabilities to fully support our culture. We are committed to building high-quality methodologies and tools in organizational development and change management. These resources will be essential for enabling SAP’s ongoing transformation and ensuring that we remain agile in a rapidly changing environment. –      Our skills-led people ecosystem prioritizes HR practices that focus on skills at every stage of the employee lifecycle: from skills-based job descriptions and personalized skill assessments, to enhanced individual learning and development opportunities tailored to growth, to hiring based on skills and abilities rather than just experience or academic qualifications. –      Our game-changing people technology harnesses SAP’s own technological capabilities. SAP SuccessFactors will form the core of our processes going forward and equip us to deliver data-driven, AI-enhanced, and fully individualized solutions for everyone at SAP. This will enable us to foster data-driven and transparent decision-making for leaders and allow everyone to grow and develop to their best abilities based on data insights. As the number one showcase and customer of SAP SuccessFactors ourselves, we will actively drive the Human Capital Management (HCM) roadmap and pioneer innovations – for our customers too. These pillars rest on the strong foundation of our people-centric work environment, which fosters employee well-being, safety, and health, as well as workforce diversity and workplace inclusion. Together, these elements are designed to establish a forward-thinking workplace. Processes for Engaging with Our Own Workforce At SAP, we engage and communicate with our own workforce regularly, using a variety of formats and media as part of our comprehensive, continuous efforts to listen and to maintain a dialogue. This includes dedicated follow-up actions to address employee feedback. To ensure good communication with our employees, we have dedicated communication teams at global, Board area, regional, and local level. We communicate with our workforce about topics that are important for them through a range of channels. Examples are shown below. Global communications to all employees do not usually include temporary staff, due to the dynamic nature of distribution lists for them. For local events and communication channels, local laws stipulate whether or not temporary staff should be included. Temporary staff can also access information published on SAP One, our internal employee portal. Audience Asset/ Channel Cadence Description All Employees ​ Global Employee Meeting (GEM) - (hybrid live event) ​ Quarterly ​ The GEM is a meeting that connects members of the Executive Board with employees. Top-voted employee questions are addressed on stage and online by an expert panel. ​ ​ Earnings Check-In (hybrid live event) ​ Quarterly ​ This event complements the GEM by providing an additional, dedicated discussion forum with the CFO and CEO, on or immediately after earnings day. Top-voted employee questions are addressed on stage and online by an expert panel. ​ ​ Unplugged sessions with CEO (hybrid live event) ​ Quarterly ​ Unplugged sessions offer an informal forum for employees to ask the CEO questions on all topics related to SAP. ​ ​ Sessions with HR directors ​ Six-monthly ​ These live meetings allow HR directors to share insights and provide context for country-specific topics, regional updates, and global announcements (to outline the local impact). Employees can ask questions and share feedback. ​ ​ Coffee Corner Espresso Edition (hybrid live event) ​ Monthly ​ These sessions take place in a short, moderated Q&A format, in which a Board member and/or L1 executive answers questions from employees. ​ ​ Employee checklist (newsletter) ​ Monthly ​ This checklist is sent by e-mail as a source of information to all SAP employees worldwide. Content must be globally relevant. ​ ​ What’s Up Work Zone (website) ​ Multiple per month ​ An internal website featuring internal global news, information, and events. ​ ​ -Coffee Corner (onsite live event) -Coffee Call (hybrid live event) ​ Multiple per month ​ Q&A sessions, during which executives answer employees’ questions. ​ ​ Announcements widget (SAP One Home) ​ Weekly ​ A collection of globally relevant, need-to-know information for employees. ​ ​ Organizational announcements ​ As needed ​ Major organizational changes are followed by multi-channel communications cascades. These include e-mails, in-person events, internal online articles, FAQs, and other documentation, depending on the need. All Managers ​ Leaders What’s Next Call ​ Monthly ​ These live calls for all leaders cover relevant and timely HR and people management topics to help leaders manage their teams and organizations. ​ ​ Manager checklist ​ Monthly ​ An informational e-mail sent to all managers worldwide. Content must be globally applicable and relevant to managers in their supervisory capacity. All Managers and Chief Experts ​ Leadership Communications Pack (LCP) ​ Quarterly ​ The LCP includes a summary of important company-wide topics for leaders to share with their teams. Executive Leadership ​ SAP Forward Call (virtual) ​ Monthly, and as needed ​ These meetings connect the Executive Board and SAP’s senior and global executives. They cover need-to-know, critical company topics and allow time for discussion and Q&As. ​ In a concerted effort to continuously promote a diverse and inclusive culture – and ensure wider accessibility to global employee events – we deploy assistive technology, including sign language interpreting (primarily American Sign Language), assistive listening devices (ALDs), closed caption screens, reserved priority seating, and post-event recordings with professional captioning. 34 Table of Contents In addition, HR directors (HRDs) engage with employee representatives regularly on the legal requirements of their respective countries and timely inform and consult these representatives about measures that impact employees and which require codetermination. These interactions can be initiated by either side. To ensure the effectiveness of its communications, our People Communications team regularly tracks the reach, engagement, and sentiment of its owned channels. This data is used to inform stakeholders and improve future communications, as well as to continuously refine communication channels and approaches. The team uses a combination of e-mail marketing tools, data analytics tools, and manual analysis. One of our platforms for internal e-mail communication is an in-house tool called Communications Hub. It enables us to track open rates, read rates, and link clicks. The Global Communications Team (specifically, People Communications) also measures pre-event engagement through the volume of questions submitted, and uses in-event polling, to gather feedback from attendees. Attendance numbers (virtual) and replay views are also tracked. At SAP, we recognize that employee engagement is a critical driver of innovation, productivity, and long-term organizational success. Our Executive Board members play an important role in fostering and maintaining employee engagement. Given SAP’s approach to employee engagement, no single role is operationally responsible for employee engagement. It falls within the role of the chief human resources officer to foster engagement between SAP and its employees through various formats for interacting and listening, and through our People Agenda. Further, the responsibilities of HR directors include supporting communication and dialogue, and implementing the People Agenda at country level. The chief communications officer is responsible for ensuring communication between SAP and its employees. #Unfiltered ​ y Definitions Leadership Trust Net Promoter Score (Leadership Trust NPS): The metric is derived from a question in our #Unfiltered survey that gauges employees’ trust in our leaders. Based on the Customer NPS methodology, it is calculated as a percentage of “promoters” (a score of 9 or 10 on a 10-point scale) minus the percentage of “detractors” (a score of 1 through 6). The method ignores “passives” (a score of 7 or 8). Consequently, the value range of the NPS is –100 to +100, with the latter being the best achievable score. Business Health Culture Index (BHCI): This metric was collected in the #Unfiltered survey run in June 2024. Simplification of Processes: This index shows the impact of our continued efforts to simplify our processes. It is measured on the basis of answers to 14 questions in our #Unfiltered program (November 2024 survey). Diversity & Inclusion Index: The Diversity & Inclusion Score from #Unfiltered indicates the extent to which SAP successfully offers employees a working environment that promotes diversity and inclusion. The index is measured on the basis of answers to three questions (June 2024 survey). ​ ​ 35 Table of Contents #Unfiltered, 15 our employee engagement survey program, runs twice a year to measure key people metrics, engagement drivers, and employee sentiment. #Unfiltered is a demonstration of our commitment to listen regularly to our employees and act together on their feedback. In 2024, we ran surveys in June and November to gauge sentiment on employee engagement, leadership trust, health and well-being, and other topics. The average scores from both surveys were used as the full-year Employee Engagement Index and Leadership Trust NPS. The EEI is part of the short-term, one-year performance-based compensation (Short-Term Incentive, STI) of the Executive Board members. The target range for the EEI in 2024 was 76% to 80%. In July, SAP adjusted the EEI outlook for the full-year 2024 to 70% to 74% based on the latest available results by the end of Q2. The EEI, along with other survey metrics, such as BHCI and Leadership Trust NPS, declined due to multiple factors, including, for example, the transformation and restructuring efforts, the evolution in SAP’s hybrid work guidance, or external influences which were beyond SAP’s control. The adjustment of the outlook did not affect the Executive Board’s compensation targets. The target range for 2025 is between 74% and 78%. Measures were introduced to counteract the decline in EEI, which already showed positive effects in the second half of the year. Additionally, we use a number of feedback instruments within our continuous listening approach to assess how individual employees experience the various touchpoints along the employee lifecycle. This approach enables us to understand how employees perceive SAP, to enhance our processes, and to optimize the employee experience. We act on the feedback we receive from these various listening measures to improve organizational and team development. Our follow-up activities are driven by a two-fold approach: global focus areas are coordinated centrally, while team-related activities are coordinated within the respective teams. We also track the Diversity & Inclusion Index of our own workforce through our #Unfiltered survey, which allows us to take a deeper look at the aspects of gender, age, job level, and geography for all employee engagement scores. True to our commitment to nurture a diverse and inclusive work environment in which each person’s unique background and identity is not just acknowledged but celebrated, we aspire to offer enhanced support to employees worldwide. To this end, in 2023, we launched our Global Diversity Survey . 16 This annual survey allows individuals to share – on a voluntary basis and in compliance with the legislation of the respective country – personal characteristics, such as their ethnicity, gender identity, sexual orientation, disability status, nationality, military/veteran status, and caregiver status. In 2024, the survey achieved a response rate of 10%. The feedback provided new insights into our understanding of diversity in the workforce, including: - Expressions of pansexuality and self-described gender identities - The underrepresentation of nationalities, religions, and of people from ethnic backgrounds - ‘Caregiving,’ which encompasses responsibility for children, parents, grandparents, spouses, or partners, as well as those preparing to become caregivers. SAP has 13 employee network groups (ENGs), 17 which are voluntary initiatives. At regular meetings with Executive Board members and other leaders, the ENGs share grassroots level feedback and ideas to improve systemic inclusion. Diversity & Inclusion Our Approach and Policies Our diversity and inclusion (D&I) strategy supports SAP’s corporate goals by fostering innovation and profitability. A diverse workforce produces innovative ideas and solutions, and drives engagement and productivity. This not only strengthens our business; it also helps us serve our global customer base better. By recruiting a diverse workforce, we enhance our reputation, attract top talent, and align with the values of our customers. The benefits of this comprehensive strategy to SAP include: - Data-driven insights: Data can reveal areas for improvement in product development, marketing strategies, and workforce development programs. - Employee engagement and productivity: A diverse and inclusive workplace fosters higher employee engagement, leading to increased productivity and better business outcomes. - Brand reputation and social responsibility: Strong practices which value contributions from a diverse population of employees enhance SAP’s brand image as a responsible and ethical company, attracting socially conscious customers and partners. - Future-proofing the business: Diversity prepares SAP to adapt to changing demographics and evolving customer expectations in a globalized world. For D&I KPIs, we focus on headcount-relevant employees for impact measurement. The benefits of diversity extend to interns and temporary staff through events, ENGs, and awareness programs. 15 83,042 employees participated in the #Unfiltered survey in June (response rate: 76%) and 77,577 employees participated in the #Unfiltered survey in November (response rate: 70%). All headcount-relevant employees and also (in Germany) non-headcount relevant employees on parental leave, on long-term sick leave, with a tenure of more than six months, PhD students, and vocational trainees were invited to take part in the 2024 #Unfiltered survey cycle. The survey did not include employees at Taulia, LeanIX, or WalkMe. 16 This survey is available for all headcount-relevant employees, except those in Chile, Israel, and Thailand, which do not allow for self-identification. 17 An employee network group (ENG) is a voluntary, employee-led diversity and inclusion initiative that is formally supported by SAP. ​ 36 Table of Contents Our headcount-relevant employees benefit from our various initiatives to create better diverse representation through our wide variety of recruiting sources, development initiatives, and other engagement and retention strategies. Inclusive hiring is pivotal to our journey at SAP, amplifying our capacity for diverse perspectives and propelling our business transformation. In compliance with legal requirements, we uphold an Equal Employment Opportunity Policy in the United States and Canada. This policy describes the framework in place to ensure equal employment and access to opportunities, respectful treatment of all individuals, and an environment free from unlawful discrimination. It covers all aspects of employment, including selection, job assignment, promotion, transfer, compensation, discipline, layoff, terminations, and access to benefits and training. The policy is governed by the head of HR of North America and the head of HR of Canada. Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) Narrative We cover our commitment to the topics of diversity, gender equality, employment, and inclusion of persons with disabilities through our D&I narrative, which is available to all employees on our internal employee portal and externally on our Web site. The narrative below covers our entire workforce, including temporary staff and interns, and is overseen by the chief diversity & inclusion officer. The Narrative In striving to be the most inclusive software company in the world, SAP works to reflect a higher standard of business, societal values, and perspectives in all that we do – from maintaining a truly welcoming culture and providing our customers with greater transparency to measure their own progress, to serving our broader communities to develop the next generation of innovators. We believe that through our actions, we can create transformative change toward a more equitable, sustainable, and connected world. Creating a vibrant and caring environment for our people, where everyone can be their authentic self, is key. Our goal is to take best advantage of all systems and processes to make an impact that positively impacts not only SAP but all its stakeholders. We believe in a future where respect is the hallmark for all, and therefore tailor our initiatives around three pillars: Workforce Diversity, Workplace Inclusion, and Marketplace Leadership. – Workforce Diversity: increasing diversity in the workforce composition at all levels of SAP to appropriately reflect the diversity in society. – Workplace Inclusion: creating a positive work environment where all colleagues can thrive and engage to their fullest potential in driving SAP’s purpose. – Marketplace Leadership: extending the impact of diversity and inclusion efforts within the communities we serve. As we move forward, our objective is to embed these principles into all parts of our people processes and fundamentally elevate the employee experience. We aim to do this by integrating respect-based perspectives in our strategy through a Global D&I Advisory Council comprised of members from various parts of SAP; and through systemic inclusion by prioritizing people processes such as learning, talent acquisition, benefits and, policies, so that they are inclusive to all. In addition, we will continue to build inclusive features into our products and services in connection with customer demand which will enable us to keep innovating for a better future for all. Our AI Ethics Steering Committee ensures that many safeguards are put in place to avoid discriminatory or biased outcomes. Energy and Emissions Our Approach and Policies For over a decade now, climate action has been at the top of SAP’s corporate sustainability agenda in light of the increasing impacts of climate change and escalating global challenges. We aim to take climate action through our dual approach as enabler and exemplar to help pave the way toward a low-carbon future for our customers, partners, and SAP, and create impact while respecting planetary boundaries. The following sections describe in detail how we mitigate negative impacts and risks, and how we pursue positive impacts and opportunities through our policies, actions, targets, and metrics. Our Actions and Targets Our Targets Related to Climate Change Mitigation Transition Plan for Climate Change Mitigation Our net-zero commitment is the cornerstone of our climate change mitigation. Under this commitment, aim to reduce our Gross Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions (market-based) by at least 90% across the relevant value chain by 2030. The net-zero target has been validated and approved by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi), which also verified that SAP’s target is compatible with limiting global warming to 1.5°C as advocated by the Paris Agreement . 37 Table of Contents SAP’s ambitious climate change mitigation commitment has been recognized also by the investment market, as demonstrated by SAP’s inclusion in the EU Paris-aligned benchmarks. Target Base Year Target Year Target Description 1.5 °C-aligned science-based target (SBT) ​ 2023: 6.9 million tons Gross GHG Emissions (market-based) ​ 2030: Reduction of Gross GHG Emissions (market-based) by at least 90%, which corresponds to less than 0.7 million tons (near-term and long-term target) ​ Reduce SAP’s Gross GHG Emissions (market-based) across our value chain (Scope 1, 2 and 3) by at least 90% to reach net zero by 2030. Remaining residual emissions will be neutralized by a maximum of 10% carbon removals. Scope: GHG Protocol-aligned baseline, including Scope 1, Scope 2 market-based, and all business-relevant Scope 3 value chain emissions. ​ We acknowledge the recent reports issued by various companies, including some of our vendors, in which they state that they are reconsidering or adjusting their net-zero targets. In light of these developments, and given the increasing demand for energy due to the widening use of artificial intelligence, we are closely monitoring our progress and evaluating whether we can achieve our net-zero target by 2030 as planned or if we might need to adjust it. SAP’s decarbonization and transformation plan tackles four main areas: – Cloud transformation: Moving our on-premise solutions to the cloud represents our most important GHG-reduction lever. SAP’s own data centers and colocations are powered with 100% renewable energy. 19 We aim to increase the share of renewable energy in our upstream and downstream value chain by working together with our suppliers with a specific focus on our hyperscale providers and customers and by constantly improving the data quality in our GHG emissions calculations (from averages to actuals). – Upstream supply chain: We are working on reducing supply chain emissions by maintaining strong supplier partnerships and by adjusting and refining internal procurement processes and policies. In this context, we recognize that there are interdependencies with our suppliers and their decarbonization strategies and timelines, which are beyond SAP’s direct control. In addition, the growing demand for energy due to the increasing use of artificial intelligence could have a negative impact on GHG emissions in the upstream supply chain which, due to the advances in this technology, cannot be evaluated fully at this point in time. – Own operations: We aim to drive real avoidance and reduction of GHG emissions by, for instance, transitioning our car fleet to electric vehicles and strengthening our environmental and energy management system (ISO 14001 and ISO 50001). – Carbon removals: By investing in nature-based and technical removals, we aim to neutralize any remaining residual GHG emissions by 2030 (maximum: 10% in line with the Science Based Target Initiative standard for net-zero targets). In all four areas, leveraging our own solution portfolio is fundamental to improving how we manage and plan our initiatives, resources, and value chain partner relationships to achieve net zero by 2030. When modeling our reduction pathway to 2030, we considered future developments, such as the expected growth of the company and the effects from our cloud strategy. Our transition plan is closely connected to our business model and financial planning according to SAP’s corporate business trajectory and financial forecasts. Doing so ensures that we incorporate estimated company growth and cloud development projections to formulate a comprehensive emissions plan that reflects anticipated developments and considers investments in reducing GHG emissions. Taking this approach allows us to ensure that our climate change mitigation actions are viewed not as separate initiatives but as an integrated element of our financial growth strategy, corporate risk management, technology adoption, and product portfolio development. By way of these decarbonization levers, SAP envisions that its transformation plan will steadily reduce GHG emissions, with our supply chain and cloud transformation being the biggest drivers. If GHG emissions still remain, SAP plans to leverage removals in line with the SBTi standard as explained above. However, we recognize certain externalities such as some of our vendors reconsidering or adjusting their net-zero targets and the uncertainty of growing energy needs due to the increasing use of artificial intelligence. Therefore, we are closely monitoring our progress and evaluating whether we can achieve our original goal as planned, or if adjustments may be necessary. 18 Expressed in millions of tons of CO 2 e. 38 Table of Contents 19 In addition, we are voluntarily reducing the non-renewable electricity consumption of our hyperscale providers by procuring EACs on their behalf. This is not eligible for our science-based net-zero target and solely contributes to our long-standing commitment to power all our data centers with 100% renewables. Energy Consumption and Mix Energy Consumption ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ in MWh (rounded to 100 MWh) ​ 2024 Total Energy Consumption ​ 757,900 ​ Energy from Fossil Energy from Renewable Energy from Nuclear ​ ​ Sources Sources 1 Sources Total Energy Consumption ​ 447,900 310,000 0 Scope 1 ​ Fuel consumption from natural gas and other sources ​ Stationary combustion 2 ​ 92,600 1,100 0 Mobile combustion from corporate cars (gasoline, diesel) ​ 339,900 0 0 Mobile combustion from corporate jets (kerosene) ​ 7,900 0 0 Scope 2 ​ Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity ​ Electricity in office buildings ​ 0 112,000 0 Electricity in own data centers ​ 0 95,200 0 Electricity in colocation data centers ​ 0 87,700 0 E-mobility electricity ​ 0 12,700 0 Consumption of purchased or acquired heat, steam, and cooling (district heating) ​ 7,500 0 0 ​ 1 Refers to the consumption of (1) self-generated renewable energy (produced on-site) and (2) the procurement of high-quality EACs. 2 This includes gas and oil heating systems in office buildings (owned and leased) as well as the combustion of diesel in generators and gas in co-generation units / Combined heat and power (CHP) systems. In our CHP system in Walldorf, we also use wood pellets as a renewable source to generate heat. ​ ​ ​ ​ Share of Energy Consumed 2024 Share of fossil sources in total energy consumption 59 % Share of consumption from nuclear sources in total energy consumption 0 % Share of renewable sources in total energy consumption 41 % ​ ​ ​ ​ Disaggregation of Renewable Energy (including certificates) Sources (in MWh rounded to 100 MWh) 2024 Fuel consumption for renewable energy sources including biomass 1,100 Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam and cooling from renewable sources 307,600 Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy 1,300 ​ Renewable Electricity We define renewable electricity as electricity coming from renewable electricity sources such as wind, solar, geothermal, sustainably sourced biomass (including biogas), and sustainable hydropower. As recommended by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and CDP/RE100, we actively look for the best available quality and standards, which support renewable electricity projects that meet robust criteria in terms of environmental integrity, reporting, and verification. We have defined quality criteria for the procurement of EACs by SAP to drive change in the electricity market and to avoid the risk caused by low-quality products. The key characteristics of our renewable electricity purchasing guidelines are as follows: Quality Criteria for SAP’s Procurements of EACs ​ Type of renewable electricity Currently, SAP considers only solar photovoltaics (PV) and wind for its own renewable electricity sourcing. ​ Installation ​ The power plant producing the renewable electricity must not be older than 10 years. Where an old power plant has been renovated, the 10-year rule applies only to the additional electricity output due to increased efficiency. SAP strives to avoid considering EACs from government-supported power plants. ​ Vintage ​ The renewable electricity must be produced in the same year or the year preceding the reporting period to which it will be applied. ​ EKOenergy ​ All our purchased renewable electricity is EKOenergy-certified, a high-quality, internationally recognized not-for-profit ecolabel for renewable energy installations that fulfill additional sustainability criteria. By purchasing EKOenergy-certified electricity, we also contribute to EKOenergy’s Climate Fund, which finances solar projects tackling energy poverty. ​ ​ Calculation of Contractual Instruments For our science-based target (net zero by 2030) baseline, we account for GHG Emissions Scope 2 (market-based) in line with the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance. SAP proactively purchases contractual instruments such as EACs as credible evidence that we power all our facilities with 100% renewable electricity. 39 Table of Contents We calculate the amount of renewable electricity we use by adding together the amounts of renewable electricity a) produced on site, b) covered by EACs, and c) sourced through local green tariff agreements. The total of purchased EACs is the sum of all the electricity consumed (excluding self-generated renewable electricity) from all electricity-related Scope 2 categories: electricity in office buildings, electricity in own data centers, electricity in colocation data centers, and e-mobility (2024: 308,000 MWh). The renewable electricity from EACs is considered only if it is verified by an official certificate or written confirmation from our EAC suppliers (100% data coverage). For market-based reporting, we apply a region-based approach. Following this approach, we map the electricity our SAP sites consume to defined regions to ensure regional purchasing of EACs. In 2024, contractual instruments allowed us to reduce our entire GHG Emissions Scope 2 (location-based) related to electricity consumption by 118 kilotons CO 2 e. ​ ​ ​ ​ Contractual Instruments 2024 GHG Emissions Scope 2 (location-based) 1 120 ​ GHG Emissions Scope 2 (market-based) 1 1 ​ Percentage of contractual instruments (location-based) 99 % ​ 1 In kilotons CO 2 e ​ SAP’s energy contractual instruments can be disaggregated into unbundled and an insignificant portion of bundled instruments. Unbundled instruments allow SAP to claim renewable energy attributes separately from our physical electricity use. Bundled instruments that SAP purchases are green tariffs in selected locations, such as Australia. The percentage of these types of instruments in our strategy is set out in the table below. ​ ​ ​ ​ Types of Contractual Instruments 2024 Percentage of contractual instruments of energy bundle with attributes about energy generation 0 % Percentage of contractual instruments of energy unbundled with energy attributes claims 100 % ​ Intellectual Property, Proprietary Rights and Licenses We rely on a combination of the protections provided by applicable statutory and common law rights, including trade secret, copyright, patent, and trademark laws, license and non-disclosure agreements, and technical measures to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our products. For further details on risks related to SAP’s intellectual property rights, see “