Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Expected Developments . Security, Cloud Compliance, Data Protection and Privacy Vision and Strategy Every day, organizations around the world trust SAP with their data – either on premise at their physical locations, in the cloud, or when using mobile devices while on the move. Which is why security, cloud compliance, and data protection and privacy are of paramount importance to us. Therefore, the principles set out in the SAP Global Security Policy govern how we keep our data and our customers’ data safe, how we process it in compliance with local legislation, and how we protect it from malicious use. SAP uses the National Standards and Technology’s Cybersecurity Framework (NIST CSF) to assess how well we manage cybersecurity risk in the Company. The cybersecurity governance framework incorporates industry standards and best practices that help guide our understanding of cybersecurity threats, vulnerabilities, and impacts, and how to mitigate these risks using proactive measures. SAP Global Security and Cloud Compliance Cloud solutions and services are increasingly important to many companies’ daily operations. Organizations today are facing many risk factors and disruptions, such as war, political unrest, severe weather, pandemics, cyberattacks, and supply chain disruption, making digital solutions critical to organizational resilience. As a result, digital transformation is accelerating and cybersecurity is now even more crucial to IT security professionals, and to leaders in business and government, particularly in those organizations that have moved their core processes to the cloud. The SAP strategy is focused on helping our customers in their digital transformation. Our SAP Global Security and Cloud Compliance (SGSC) unit supports this journey with the goals of reducing risk and promoting regulatory compliance, and by aligning people, procedures, and technology to protect business processes and data. The organization embraces a security-minded culture that embeds security and compliance in our development and deployment processes and helps secure digital transformation. SGSC supports key stakeholders across SAP in our lines of business (LoBs), IT, and the presales organization in securing solutions, and drives operational excellence for security and cloud compliance across the enterprise. To protect our organization’s data and assets, and support high-quality risk management and reporting, SGSC regularly reviews and adapts our security policies, standards, and frameworks. 30 Table of Contents Data Protection With our product and services portfolio, we aim to protect the rights of individuals involved and to meet relevant local requirements when processing personal data. In addition, we strive to strengthen SAP’s reputation in the long term as a sustainable and trustworthy partner in the market. We have implemented safeguards intended to help protect the fundamental rights of everyone whose data is processed by SAP, whether they are customers, suppliers, partners, prospects, employees, or applicants. We develop and pursue our global data protection and privacy strategy in accordance with our business strategy. Our global data protection and privacy strategy is to constantly monitor the global regulatory data protection compliance landscape, identify relevant stakeholders, and enable them to take necessary measures. It is also designed to safeguard the processing of personal data. The strategy consists of four pillars to help ensure we comply with applicable data protection laws and regulations. These pillars are our global data protection and privacy policy, mandatory global data protection and privacy trainings for employees, our global data protection and privacy network and global data protection management system and its data protection control framework. Due Diligence for Security and Cloud Compliance Topics Governance SGSC is led by a chief security compliance and risk officer and a chief security officer who report directly to the SAP chief technology officer (CTO). SGSC divisions are responsible for areas such as product and application security, cyberdefense, operational security risk management, security compliance, executive protection, physical security, and a Trust Office that supports customers and partners on matters relating to security and compliance. The SAP Security and Cloud Compliance Governance Model is designed to ensure executive engagement and facilitates shared responsibility in quarterly SAP Security Advisory Board and Security Council meetings and in periodic updates to the Executive Board. Our commitment to customers is to be open and transparent about security vulnerabilities. To ensure this, we work with several external stakeholder groups, including the SAP user groups for the Americas and for the German-speaking countries. Guidelines and Policies The purpose of the SAP Global Security Policy is to provide governance and structure for an appropriate and effective level of information security at SAP and our affiliated businesses. Aligned with the overall SAP corporate strategy and vision, it details management expectations and the strategic goals and objectives for SAP security. This policy provides high-level requirements for numerous security domains. These include, but are not limited to, access control, physical security, network security management, incident response, and acceptable use. These requirements apply to all SAP employees, contractors, and consultants, and to external parties that are granted access to SAP information and information assets. SAP reviews the policy annually and enacts modifications as deemed appropriate and necessary to protect SAP and our own and our customers’ data and assets where new threats or vulnerabilities are identified. All SAP employees are required to read and adhere to this internal policy. The SAP Security Policy Framework consists of several levels of security documents that support the requirements described in the policy. In addition, the various LoBs at SAP may have supporting policies, standards, procedures, and practices. Due Diligence for Data Protection Topics Governance Within the scope of their responsibilities, our global data protection officer (DPO) monitors the compliance of activities involving the processing of personal data. The DPO reports to our CFO. Within the Executive Board, the SAP CFO is responsible for compliance and enforcement of data protection and privacy. The DPO is responsible for the SAP Global Data Protection and Privacy Policy that addresses SAP’s data protection governance, and regularly informs the CFO about the status of data protection compliance in the SAP Group. To meet and ensure consistent security and data protection compliance, SAP has implemented a formal governance model that assigns clear responsibilities across the SAP Group. Upon request, the DPO attends steering committee meetings and reports on matters relevant to data protection to the Audit and Compliance Committee of the SAP Supervisory Board. SAP has established a global network of data protection and privacy coordinators (DPPCs) across all SAP Group entities that process personal data. This DPPC network consists of regional and local DPPCs to ensure data protection and privacy compliance on a local level. The DPPC network sensitizes our employees by conducting local training and monitoring the legal landscape. Where new data protection laws evolve, the DPPC network also helps the Data Protection and Privacy (DPP) team, which acts on behalf of the DPO, identify and analyze them. If this requires compliance activities, they align with the affected LoBs and help drive the relevant implementation. Supported by the DPPC network, the DPP team regularly engages with SAP Government Relations to represent SAP’s interests in the legislative process. In this regard, SAP participates in external working groups aiming at communicating industry-specific interests with respective governments. 31 Table of Contents SAP has implemented a data protection management system (DPMS) for our organization. The DPMS adheres to the generally recognized standard for data protection management systems as defined in the British Standard BS 10012, which comprises the data protection requirements of the European Union (EU) General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) since version 10012:2017. Our DPMS covers almost all LoBs and is planned to be implemented in all acquired companies as well. It is designed as a framework covering all aspects of data protection compliance of SAP organizations and employees. The system is used as SAP’s standard methodology to ensure compliance with data protection legislation. The maintenance of the framework is subject to certification by the British Standards Institution (BSI) that confirms data protection compliance annually. Guidelines and Policies The SAP Global Data Protection and Privacy Policy sets a Group-wide governance standard and structure for the handling of personal data in accordance with data protection and privacy requirements. It also defines requirements for business processes that involve personal data and assigns clear responsibilities. The data protection principles set out in this policy are generally accepted and enshrined in most data protection laws around the world, including the EU GDPR. These principles provide the general framework in the SAP Group for the processing of personal data. We actively monitor changes to applicable laws and regulations so that we can update our standards on an ongoing basis as necessary to meet data protection compliance. The policy was last updated in 2023. How We Measure and Manage Our Performance Security and Cloud Compliance Compliance processes at SAP adhere to trust-service criteria established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). Our security, privacy, confidentiality, and processing integrity controls are designed to achieve the appropriate control objectives. In addition, independent, external auditing partners regularly conduct security compliance audits. SAP discloses vulnerabilities to customers and provides accompanying patches or instructions when the customer needs to take action. This procedure also applies to the rarer cases where SAP patches to cloud services require customer action. We disclose these instructions using SAP Security Notes published every second Tuesday of the month (Patch Day). By the time any vulnerabilities are disclosed to customers, the patches are already applied on cloud landscapes as a rule. This process is further supported by the publication of Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE documents) through MITRE that enable integration with the customer’s existing vulnerability and risk management tools. MITRE is a disclosure mechanism that provides customers with authoritative, public information from SAP about SAP software vulnerabilities that can be integrated with their existing risk management processes and tools. We strive to reduce risk by continuously improving our processes for detecting and remediating attacks and vulnerabilities. To that end, we: - Engage in internal and external audits across SAP globally - Monitor and support our cloud and IT units with more than 2,800 controls that are audited and tested for design and operational effectiveness - Offer service organization control (SOC) reports – such as SOC 1 Type II/ISAE 3402 and SOC 2 Type II/ISAE 3000 – to provide insights into the design and operational effectiveness of internal control systems implemented within cloud delivery units - Have external internationally accredited auditors assess and certify our cloud services according to various reporting standards and ISO certifications, such as ISO 9001, ISO 27001, ISO 27017, ISO 27018, ISO 22301, and BS 10012 Data Protection To help ensure necessary knowledge about data protection, global data protection and privacy training is mandatory for SAP employees. The training is conducted every two years, with the latest rolled out in 2023. This training helps our workforce handle personal data with due care and in accordance with the law and to maintain compliance with data protection requirements in their work. We monitor compliance of data protection-relevant procedures across SAP. We maintain a record of processing activities (“procedure enrollment tool”), in which all procedures that process personal data must be documented. These records contain general information about the procedure according to clearly defined criteria that are necessary to meet proper documentation. The records are reportable and regularly reviewed. We also track the quality of our data protection compliance level based on the annual recertification of our DPMS by the BSI. SAP has been audited by the BSI annually and awarded certifications according to BS 10012 since 2011. The most recent certification is valid until end of 2025. SAP’s own quality standards and international regulations require careful selection and monitoring of subprocessors processing personal data on behalf of SAP and SAP customers. With the goal that all subprocessors meet data protection and security requirements for the processing of personal data, SAP has implemented a subprocessor verification process that is part of the overall SAP Third-Party Risk Management framework. SAP respects the rights of the data subjects to obtain information as to whether personal data concerning them is being processed. All necessary information is made available to the data subjects within the framework of the privacy statements on the respective SAP Web sites. In 2023, there were two notifiable data protection incidents in accordance with the GDPR for data that SAP processes for its own purposes and were reported to the supervisory authorities. 32 Table of Contents Related Risks for SAP For related financial risks, see the Risk Factors section, specifically the Cybersecurity and Security and Data Protection and Privacy subsections. Human Capital Resources Vision and Strategy People are at the heart of our organization. Aiming for a highly engaged, diverse, future-fit workforce equipped with the right skills helps SAP attract and retain the best talent. As part of People & Operations, our People Strategy connects with our go-to-market and product strategies, bringing together the essential fabric of SAP’s transformation: our people, processes, and technology. Since 2020, we have been evolving our annual execution of our People Strategy , which contributes to our business strategy and value generation. It can be summarized across three strategic priorities powered by operational excellence, and showcasing SAP SuccessFactors solutions for human experience management (HXM): – Build SAP’s Skills for the Future by attracting the best and most diverse talent and continuously up-/reskilling our people – Drive SAP’s Winning and Inclusive Culture by fostering a culture that enables and rewards impact and business outcomes and nurtures inclusion and belonging – Change the Way We Lead – Do What’s Right by driving accountability and empowerment in an agile, healthy, and inclusive environment Due Diligence Governance Sabine Bendiek served as Chief People and Operating Officer and Labor Relations Director from January 1, 2021, until her departure from the Company on December 31, 2023. She is succeeded by Gina Vargiu-Breuer, who joined the SAP Executive Board in February 2024 15 . The following functional areas help implement our People Strategy: Future of Work (including Global Health, Safety & Well-Being), Global Diversity & Inclusion, SAP Learning, Talent Attraction, Total Rewards, and our Global People Success Services team, which includes the HR Business Partner organization, People Experience, and Global HR Service Delivery. Guidelines and Policies SAP is committed to ensuring the fair and equal treatment of all employees in a sustainable manner. For that reason, we established comprehensive policies that guide us in our daily business. Examples include our SAP Global Antidiscrimination Statement and SAP Health & Safety Commitment Statement . 16,17 How We Measure and Manage Our Performance The impact of our People Strategy is measured by seven KPIs (see table “Our Key People-Related KPIs at a Glance”). Five out of the seven KPIs are based on the results of our engagement survey program #Unfiltered . 18 With #Unfiltered, we strengthen our commitment to listen regularly to our employees and act together on their feedback. Our focus in 2023 was on continuing our efforts to further strengthen the excitement about the future of SAP. We gauged the sentiment on employee engagement (which includes excitement for the future of SAP), leadership trust, and health and well-being along with other topics twice in 2023. The average scores from both data collections were used as the full-year Employee Engagement Index and Leadership Trust Net Promoter Score. Additional people-related KPIs can be found in Finance and ESG Data . 19 15 As a result of the departure of Sabine Bendiek, as of January 1, 2024, SAP’s HR function has been re-established as an independent Board area named People & Culture. 16 The Commitment Statement, first published in February 2023, is the public version of our internal SAP Global Health & Safety Policy. 17 Both links lead to information that was not part of the statutory audit or the independent limited assurance engagement performed by our external auditor. 18 82,651 employees participated in the #Unfiltered survey in April (response rate: 76%), and 78,041 employees participated in the #Unfiltered survey in October (response rate: 71%). All headcount (HC)-relevant employees and, in addition, in Germany, the non-HC relevant employees on parental leave, on long-term sick leave, with a tenure of more than six months, PhD students, and vocational trainees were invited to take part in the 2023 #Unfiltered survey cycle. 19 Information was not part of the statutory audit or the independent limited assurance engagement performed by our external auditor. ​ 33 Table of Contents Our Key People-Related KPIs at a Glance 20 Below is an overview of how we put the three themes of our People Strategy and the KPIs into practice. Build SAP’s Skills for the Future SAP is committed to accelerating cloud growth. This requires workforce upskilling and expansion. Attracting, hiring, onboarding, developing, and retaining top talent is vital for our future success. In 2023, we focused on internal roles and strategic investment areas to support our transformation and long-term growth. The competitive talent market underscores the need to further communicate our Employer Value Proposition , encourage employee ambassadorship, and promote referrals. We remain committed to fostering inclusivity across generations, genders, nationalities, and more, to ensure a rich and diverse workforce. For 2023, it remained our ambition to have 30% of management roles held by women. Our aspiration is to reach gender parity in our workforce at all levels and to retain women leaders. As part of our strategic pillar “Build SAP’s Skills for the Future,” we focus on the skills transformation of our workforce. We have established one unified skills library, and are working to unify existing skills management tools to implement one single platform, SAP SuccessFactors, for all employees. This will enable greater skills transparency, data-driven workforce planning, and intentional upskilling, as well as enhance our processes from hire to retire. Our learning strategy is closely aligned with our product and customer strategies to drive cohesive, skill-based development for both our ecosystem and our workforce. 20 Employee Engagement Index: For more information, see the Performance Management System section. The Employee Engagement Index target range for 2023 was 76% to 80%; this range will also be the target for 2024. Leadership Trust Net Promoter Score: for more information, see the Performance Management System section. Business Health Culture Index (BHCI): Indicates the extent to which SAP successfully offers employees a working environment that promotes health, and supports their long-term employability and their active engagement in reaching our corporate goals. The index covers questions concerning how employees rate their personal well-being, the working conditions at SAP, and our leadership culture. The BHCI is calculated based on the results of our #Unfiltered program (April 2023 survey). For 2024 through 2025, our ambition remains to keep the BHCI between 78% and 80%. Innovation Index: Indicates to what extent we foster an innovation culture. The index is measured by three questions in our #Unfiltered program (April 2023 survey). Simplification of Processes: Shows the impact of our continued efforts to simplify our processes. The index is measured by nine questions in our #Unfiltered program (October 2023 survey). Employee Retention: Ratio of the average number of employees minus the employees who left voluntarily, to the average number of employees, taking into account the past 12 months (in full-time equivalents, or FTEs). This ratio puts emphasis on employee-initiated turnover. In other words, we seek to measure how many employees choose to stay with SAP. As opposed to keeping a low turnover rate, we aim to keep our retention rate high. The number of employees who left voluntarily excludes those who left voluntarily as part of restructuring-related departures, for more transparency and precise headcount management purposes. Women in Management: We define “women in management” as the share of women in management positions as compared to the total number of managers, expressed by the number of individuals and not FTEs. It includes three categories: 1) Managers managing teams: Refers to managing teams of at least one employee or vacant position; 2) Managers managing managers: Refers to managing managers who manage teams; and 3) Executive Board members. For 2023, we kept our ambition to increase the rate of women in management to 30%. Our aspiration is to reach gender parity in our workforce at all levels and to retain women leaders. ​ 34 Table of Contents Talent Attraction, Development, and Retention ​ External hires - 7,187 (FTE) (2022: 12,564) employees, of which 41.5% were women (2022: 38.1%) - Attracting diverse talent is supported by initiatives such as the SAP Returnship program for professionals who have taken a career break for caregiving, relocation, or military service. Early Talent 21 hires and pipeline programs ​ - Early Talent hires: out of 7,187 hired employees, 37.8% (FTE) (2022: 27.9%) are Early Talents. - Vocational Training / SAP Student Training and Rotation (VT/ STAR) program: average of 1,454 students and apprentices (from Australia, Brazil, China, Germany, Hungary, India, Ireland, Japan, New Zealand, South-East Asia, South Korea, Switzerland, and the United States); conversion rate 22 of 82% (2022: 78%) - Cooperation with more than 2,700 academic institutions (events, executive lectures, office visits, competitions) - SAP Internship Experience Program: 1,568 (2022: 1,662) global participants in 22 countries Global onboarding ​ - New employees must attend virtual corporate onboarding sessions (a total of 12 hours) that ensure they understand SAP’s strategy, culture, structure, operations, and success metrics. - Around 4,500 new hires completed these sessions in 2023, with a customer satisfaction rate of 4.5. 23 - For new hires in customer-facing sales roles, corporate onboarding is complemented by role-based onboarding. In 2023, 1,212 new hires in customer-facing sales roles completed our role-based onboarding program. With each new hire completing at least 80 to 90 hours of learning, total trackable learning was more than 97,000 hours. Continuous learning, upskilling, and engagement ​ - Self-paced online and live interactive training, and a peer-to-peer learning portfolio for all employees - Role-based solution upskilling program for customer-facing functions 24 (completion rate: 53%) 25 - Cloud upskilling program that reached 39,618 employees (2022: 34,233) - High employee-learning participation rate: in 2023, the participation rate was 99%, resulting in more than 2.3 million learning hours (2021: more than 3 million hours; 2022: more than 3.1 million hours with a 98% participation rate)., and 12,057 individuals spent more than 50 hours learning. - More than 1.8 million external learners upskilled on SAP solutions and technologies in 2023 as part of our ambition to upskill 2 million learners annually by 2025, including programs for underrepresented groups to build digital skills. Succession management process ​ - Succession pipeline defined by supporting targeted development and facilitating Executive Board exposure in roundtables for incumbents and identified successors of executive roles SAP Alumni Network ​ - 25,559 former employees (2022: 20,054 ); 5,903 current employees (2022: 5,444) Candidate and hiring manager experience ​ - It is our goal to differentiate SAP by creating a great experience in every interaction. Qualtrics feedback surveys of candidates and hiring managers help provide the necessary insight to continuously improve our hiring practices. - Candidate Experience: 26 4.22; Hiring Manager Experience: 27 4.68; Quality of Hire: Score 1: 96%; Score 2: 67% 28 Average tenure ​ - 8.7 years (2022: 8.3 years) Earned employer, learning, and development recognitions ​ - 170 (2022: 154); List of Workplace Culture Awards 29 - Our approach to upskilling has been recognized by: – The Chief Learning Officer 2023 Learning Elite Awards – Gold Status – SAP being named a leader in three IDC MarketScape reports, the European and U.S. IT Training Services 2021 Vendor Assessment, and APeJ IT Training Services 2022 Vendor Assessment, and issued again in 2023. 21 “Early Talents” are defined as having 0 to 3 years of experience in a professional setting when hired into a professional role. 22 Percentage who received permanent contracts after completing the VT/ STAR program 23 Score based on the question: “Overall, how satisfied are you with the Experience SAP session?” (scale: 1 being the lowest, 5 the highest rating). 24 The role-based skill program is mandatory for all SAP employees in Customer Success (CS) – excluding contract employees in CS roles in Germany, where the program is considered “highly recommended.” 25 The role-based skill program consists of the following levels: L100 completion rate: 50%, L200 completion rate: 45%, L300 completion rate: 121%, and Essential Learning completion rate: 53%. 26 The score is based on three questions (scale: 1 being the lowest, 5 the highest rating) about their experience with the recruiter, their ability to represent the Company, and the opportunities there, and their ability to serve as strategic advisor to find the best fit within the Company for the candidate. 27 This is a weighted average of the candidate touchpoint survey: Career Site, Post-Application, Post-Interview, and Post-Decision. 28 Score 1 is based on the question: “Would you hire this employee again?”; Score 2 is based on the question: “Has this employee ‘raised the bar’ for your team?” 29 Link leads to information that was not part of the statutory audit or the independent limited assurance engagement performed by our external auditor. ​ 35 Table of Contents Drive SAP’s Winning and Inclusive Culture With our performance management approach, we aim to establish a high-performance focus by linking business goals to the impact of individuals and teams. Development opportunities, meaningful reward packages, and a culture of inclusion foster an environment where the full potential of every individual is realized. It is critical that our employees see the link between their individual contribution and SAP’s future success. Goal Setting and Reward Structure ​ Smart and transparent goal-setting approaches and continuous dialogue - SAP's top leadership sets goals for their organization based on SAP's and their respective Board area's strategy and focus areas and make them visible to all employees, kicking off a goal cascade through all required leadership levels, down to team and employee goal setting. In the time from January to April, up to 93% of our workforce documented their performance goals in 2023 (2022: 88%). 30 - SAP Talk conversation and check-ins throughout the year are designed to ensure manager and employee dialogue, discuss goals defined according to the SMART 31 methodology, agree upon and document these goals, and share feedback. Holistic Total Rewards value proposition ​ Our rewards experiences bring value to our people and SAP. For example, we: - Ensure fair pay through annual, global reviews of our pay ranges and pay equity, and centrally-funded pay adjustments, so that all employees are within their pay range and acceptable spread of pay differences with peers. Our approach is agnostic of personal characteristics and recognized as market-leading by The Josh Bersin Company. 32 - Follow a “pay-for-performance” approach with broad-based and targeted investments to reward individuals’ unique contribution and impact - Empower managers with a real-time analytics dashboard, powered by SAP, to make impactful rewards decisions - Motivate employees to drive our cloud transformation with short-term incentives using a unified KPI of growth in current cloud backlog (CCB) 33 - Drive ownership through our share-based compensation program, Move SAP, which vests quarterly and is share-settled in most countries (2023: 97% of employees eligible) - Ensure ownership is accessible for all employees through our global share purchase plan, Own SAP. Overall participation was 75% in 2023 (2022: 79%) with a collective investment of 6,710,033 shares (2022: 9,183,599). - Increase transparency for employees on their holistic rewards offerings – from pay to benefits and equity. Employees now have transparency into their own pay ranges (99.8% of all employees) and the value of top benefits offerings (66% of all employees). ​ For more information, see the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Note (B.3) . At SAP, we strive to be the world’s most inclusive workplace, aiming to create a unique culture where everyone feels a sense of belonging, and human differences are celebrated and valued. As a global organization with employees from 160 nationalities, we strive to consider the full spectrum of human differences and promote inclusion for each one of them (for example, inclusion of gender, race, LGBTQ+, generations, disability, and many other diversities). Our Diversity & Inclusion Strategy is built on three pillars: – Workforce Diversity: We believe in leveraging the widest spectrum of human differences that represent a diversity of identities, thoughts, and perspectives to create business outcomes that help the world run better every day. – Workplace Inclusion: We foster a work environment where colleagues can thrive and engage to their fullest potential in driving SAP’s purpose. Inclusion involves active co-creation of the culture where all experiences lead to a feeling of acceptance and belonging. – Marketplace Leadership: We are aware of the potential impact we can have as one of the largest tech companies in the world, and therefore extend our diversity and inclusion focus to our entire ecosystem. 30 M&A teams that are not yet using our Success Map tool are excluded. 31 SMART is an acronym that stands for Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Realistic, and Timely. 32 The Josh Bersin Company, SAP Transforms Total Rewards to Accomplish Pay Equity , 2023 33 Used in our sales leadership plans as a primary KPI, in non-quota carrying sales plans as a secondary KPI, and in our revenue-enabling plans as the core basis of evaluating our company success. For a definition of CCB, see the Performance Management System section. ​ 36 Table of Contents Equality and Inclusion in the Workplace ​ Gender inclusion, advancement, and equality - Women in the overall workforce: 35.2% (2022: 34.9%); women in management roles: 29.7% (2022: 29.3%); women in executive roles: 34 22.2% - SAP ranked #3 on Forbes’ list of the World’s Top Companies for Women in 2023, rising from #18 in 2022. - SAP Business Women’s Network impact: 3,300 participants at International Women’s Day and 150 chapter global events - We launched the Global Women’s Development Program for women below managerial levels, which has 263 participants across all Board areas. - The SAP Returnship program, a 20-week internship for mid-career professionals, converted 66% of the returnees into full-time employees and doubled in size. Autism inclusion ​ - Celebrating 10 years of success in 2023, our Autism at Work program supported 244 (2022: 215) colleagues on the autism spectrum across 16 (2022: 15) countries. The program was also expanded to the Philippines. - SAP Autism Inclusion Pledge : we continued to support 126 companies with best-practice sharing. - We sponsored the first-ever Autism Inclusion Company of the Year Award in partnership with Disability:IN. - SAP received the HollyRod Foundation’s Corporate Compassion Award. - We created the Sensory Relaxation Room in Prague and the Tranquility Lounge at the SuccessConnect event in Las Vegas as neurodivergent-inclusive spaces. Race and ethnicity ​ - SAP continued to be a member of the Equal@Work platform of ENAR, the European Network Against Racism. - We launched a global development program focused on levelling the playing field for underrepresented groups. The program was extended beyond North America to Africa and Brazil. LGBTQ+ inclusion ​ - SAP joined the Partnership for Global LGBTIQA+ Equality’s “Pride on the Promenade” initiative at the World Economic Forum. - SAP received the following recognitions: Top rating in the Corporate Equality Index of the Human Rights Campaign in five countries; a gold seal in Uhlala Group’s PRIDE Champion Audit in Germany; gold certification in Japan in the PRIDE Index from Work With Pride for the fourth consecutive year. - SAP sponsored the Out & Equal 2023 Workplace Summit. Workplace accessibility ​ - We received a 100% score on the Disability Equality Index for the fifth consecutive year. Global Employee Network Groups (ENGs) ​ - SAP supports 13 global Employee Network Groups (ENGs), which foster a culture of inclusion and psychological safety in the workplace. - Executive Board members continue to be executive sponsors for ENGs. - Allyship for Inclusion initiative launched globally in 2023 in partnership with ENGs to build a culture of inclusion. Workplace inclusion - SAP launched the first global diversity survey to assess workforce representation. - We achieved a 92% workplace equality rating (compared to 91% in 2022) in the #Unfiltered survey. - We launched Intentional Inclusion workshops globally to raise awareness about overcoming unconscious bias. - In 2023, SAP was recognized as a Top Faith-Friendly Company by the Religious Freedom and Business Foundation. Marketplace leadership ​ - SAP won 56 diversity and inclusion awards in 2023, more than in any previous year. - We activated the SAP EMEA South partner ecosystem on diversity and inclusion through active engagement with leadership. - We partnered with the World Economic Forum in best-practice sharing. - We enhanced our engagement with customers to advance diversity and inclusion (for example, Tech Day of Pink). - To foster the inclusion of transgender and non-binary people, SAP implemented the pronouns and preferred name functionalities available in the SAP SuccessFactors solutions it deploys internally. - The SAP Design team released accessibility design tools and the inaugural research handbook to enhance product accessibility. 34 We define “women in executive roles” as the percentage of women on the three management levels below the Executive Board out of the combined total of men, women, and other genders at those three levels. ​ 37 Table of Contents Change the Way We Lead – Do What’s Right SAP’s leadership culture is built on our leadership credo: “Do what’s right, make SAP better for generations to come,” which focuses on empowerment of our leaders to make critical decisions and drive change, and on stewardship to bring along the next generation of leaders and employees. Leadership Culture ​ Empowering and guiding our leaders - We strengthened SAP’s leadership culture, based on the credo, through the creation of a consistent approach to leadership engagement across all levels, including: – Executive strategy forums and clinics – Enabling executives to build high-performing organizations Reinforcing leadership culture ​ - Traditional, peer, and experiential learning journeys focus on purpose-driven leadership and on driving high-performing teams and organizations. - We built accountability into critical processes and provided data transparency on leadership KPIs for organizational steering. Consistent enablement of leaders ​ Targeted development offerings for each leadership tier, developing the skills to lead SAP into the future: - Enabling courageous conversations, providing feedback, intentional inclusion, and psychological safety - Scaling delivery of our modularized learning and flagship programs - Holding the SAP Leadership Summit - Percentage of leaders 35 who have completed at least one relevant learning asset: 44.4% - Percentage of global senior executives who have completed relevant development offerings: 62.2% ​ In addition to our leadership culture, one further strategic pillar is that of pursuing an agile, entrepreneurial, healthy, and innovative organization, which is essential in today’s rapidly changing environment. A Future-Ready, Agile, Healthy, and Innovative Organization Future of Work ​ - SAP’s holistic approach to the future of work actively addresses trends and developments – including the AI revolution and skills shortage – to reimagine work at its core. We drive this transformation with state-of-the-art people practices and innovative workplace approaches to future-proof our organization in times of unprecedented change. - With our Pledge to Flex initiative, SAP established a new standard for flexible work as the foundation for successful hybrid work - also for the post-pandemic era. Our global “I’m In” campaign, launched in May, reaffirmed our commitment to flex work and recommended working in the office two to three days per week as a good practice for many employees in 2023. We see value in coming together in the office on a regular basis, as it supports camaraderie, team collaboration, productivity, and innovation. - Leveraging advanced technology and new office design concepts in frontrunner locations (London, Montréal, and Zurich) further supports SAP in attracting and retaining top talent in the tech industry. Health, safety, and well-being ​ - The health, safety, and well-being of our people is a cornerstone of a sustainable Future of Work. To deliver on the promises outlined in SAP’s business strategy, our people need to run at their best and realize their full potential, while caring for their own health, their colleagues’ and team’s well-being, and their customers’ needs. - A caring culture and compliance with international and local health and safety regulations are integral parts of our business conduct, our duty of care, and our commitment to ethical leadership, as outlined in SAP’s Health & Safety Commitment Statement. - In 2023, for example, we: – Rolled out the revised internal SAP Global Health & Safety Policy with the SAP Global Health Summit and an employee enablement training – Updated SAP’s global health and safety management system in line with the SAP Global Health & Safety Policy – Continued the “Are you OK?” mental well-being initiative for leaders and employees as part of our commitment to a no-stigma working culture – Continued the SAP Global Mindfulness Practice program, supporting employees and customers in bringing mindfulness into daily personal and professional lives to increase their overall well-being and productivity Innovation ​ - The SAP.iO programs curate a relevant and diverse startup ecosystem that extends the value of SAP solutions and meets the continuously evolving needs of our customers. The programs provide dedicated support to promising startups as they launch and scale relationships with SAP and our global network of customers, partners, and employees. In 2023, SAP.iO helped 120 startups scale their solutions and expand the SAP ecosystem. - Hasso Plattner Founders’ Award : the highest internal employee recognition at SAP 35 The term “leaders” is inclusive of all SAP colleagues who are in a formal executive or people manager role – either managing a team or managing managers. ​ 38 Table of Contents Deliver Operational Excellence and Showcase Human Experience Management Delivering engaging experiences for SAP’s customers starts with our own workforce. A continued emphasis on operational excellence and experience management is key to delivering our human experience management (HXM) solutions and services efficiently, with both empathy and compliance. Examples include: – SAP runs SAP SuccessFactors solutions to manage global SAP people data, and the SAP Analytics Cloud solution to provide analytics and insights. – SAP puts processes and tools in place that enable employees to work flexibly from different locations (including working from home or abroad for personal reasons), in line with local flexible work policies. – The SAP Signavio Process Intelligence solution provides our HR organization with insights on how HR support tickets flow between the various HR support teams. In addition, we are currently leveraging the SAP Build Process Automation solution to further automate processes such as bonus plans and variable pay. Related Risks for SAP “Human rights and employee matters” is a risk factor that is assessed as part of SAP’s corporate financial risk management system. No material financial risks were identified through our risk framework as described in the Risk Factors section. Energy and Emissions Vision and Strategy For over a decade now, climate action has been at the top of SAP’s corporate sustainability agenda in light of the increasing impacts of climate change and escalating global challenges such as ecosystem degradation and biodiversity loss. As outlined in the Sustainability Management 36 section of the Integrated Report, we aim to take climate action through our dual approach as enabler and exemplar to help pave the way toward a low-carbon future for our customers, partners, and SAP, and create impact within planetary boundaries. Due Diligence Governance As outlined in the Sustainability Management 36 section of the Integrated Report, the Executive Board sponsorship for sustainability lies with the CEO, and for climate action with the CEO and CFO. The ESG Steering Board (formerly Sustainability Council) serves as a governance body to steer SAP’s corporate sustainability performance. The organizational unit and operating segment responsible for sustainability drives SAP’s holistic, cross-company sustainability agenda. The Office of the Chief Sustainability Officer (oCSO) is part of this unit and continues to shape SAP's response to climate change in close cooperation with other departments. Among other things, the oCSO is responsible for: – Defining the Environmental Policy and determining a global environmental project portfolio to help steer SAP’s impact – Setting reduction and impact targets and embedding sustainability-related initiatives across SAP (for example, running the cross-board Environmental Management System and net-zero program) – Evaluating our carbon inventory and monitoring carbon emissions on a quarterly basis – Assessing and managing climate-related risks through a quarterly risk review – Managing nature-based investment decisions – Serving as advisor to our development units to develop solutions Sustainability is a company-wide effort, and initiatives are also driven outside this dedicated unit. For example, the global procurement organization aims to ensure that SAP purchases energy-efficient, sustainable products and services. The global real estate and facilities management team designs and operates many SAP facilities based on robust environmental standards such as ISO 14001:2015 and the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification program. Our global cloud services organization attends to the optimization of the energy consumption in our data centers, while our SAP IT department encourages employees to use IT equipment and business software responsibly. In addition, to be able to innovate and evolve sustainability further, we regularly engage externally with various stakeholder groups, such as non-governmental organizations (NGOs), investors, customers, and academia. For more information, see the Stakeholder Engagement 37 section of the Integrated Report. 36 Link leads to information that was neither part of the statutory audit nor included in the independent limited assurance engagement performed by our external auditor. 37 Link leads to information that was neither part of the statutory audit nor included in the independent limited assurance engagement performed by our external auditor. ​ 39 Table of Contents Guidelines and Policies Our Global Environmental Policy 38 provides the core framework for how we manage our environmental impact – in our own operations and with our customers. Updated in August 2023 and approved by the CEO, this policy guides our efforts to improve our ecological footprint, provide environmental performance transparency, and demonstrate sustainable leadership through transformational strategies. In addition, it helps us comply with internationally recognized sustainability standards as well as stakeholder expectations, primarily those of customers, investors, and employees. How We Measure and Manage Our Performance Our Carbon Reduction Targets Target Base Year Target Year Target Description, Status, and Next Steps Carbon neutrality in our own operations by 2023 ​ 2017: 327 kilotons (kt) net carbon emissions 39 ​ 2023: 0 kilotons (kt) net carbon emissions ​ ● Net carbon emissions = gross carbon emissions (scope 1, 2, and selected scope 3) 40 minus purchased renewable energy certificates (EACs), self-generated renewable energy, and carbon offsets. ● To track progress on our target, we derived annual targets for our internal operational steering. Since the beginning of 2020, these annual targets have been integrated in the Executive Board’s short-term performance-based compensation 41 . ● Status: Achieved 42 1.5°C-aligned Science-Based Target (SBT) ​ 2023: 6.9 million tons gross carbon emissions (market-based) ​ 2030: reduction by 90% (near-term and long-term target) ​ ● Acceleration of SAP’s science-based target 43 (to reach net zero across our value chain in line with a 1.5°C future by 2030, 20 years earlier than originally planned) required a reassessment of the baseline, underlying scopes, calculation methodologies, and the target pathway. ● Status and next steps: o In 2023, our original SBT 44 was replaced by our commitment to reach net zero by 2030 in line with the SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard. o In line with the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol, we revised the baseline, which includes scope 1, scope 2 market-based, and all business-relevant scope 3 value chain emissions. For more information, see the Non-Financial Notes 45 section. o Next steps: submission to the SBTi in 2024 and publication of target pathway 2024–2030 in the SAP Integrated Report 2024. 38 Link leads to information that was neither part of the statutory audit nor included in the independent limited assurance engagement performed by our external auditor. 39 We account and report all our carbon emissions in CO 2 equivalents (CO 2 e). 40 To see which emission categories are considered in our carbon neutral target, see section Non-Financial Information: Environmental Performance (link leads to information that was neither part of the statutory audit nor included in the independent limited assurance engagement performed by our external auditor). 41 Link leads to information that was part of the compensation report audit of our external auditor (reasonable assurance level). 42 In Finance and ESG Data , we provide a carbon emissions breakdown and more details on progress (selected data presented in the linked environmental section were part of the statutory audit or independent limited assurance engagement performed by our external auditor. For more information, see the auditor's assurance report). 43 Acceleration decision made in 2022 to prevent and mitigate the intensifying adverse effects of climate change. 44 Confirmed by the SBTi in a 2019 reassessment, our original 1.5°C-aligned SBT (first defined in 2017) aimed for a reduction of 85% by 2050 compared to the base-year level 2016 (near-term target: reduction by 40% by 2025). 45 Link leads to information that was neither part of the statutory audit nor included in the independent limited assurance engagement performed by our external auditor. ​ 40 Table of Contents Performance and Measures to Progress 46 With our net carbon emissions dropping to 0 kilotons (kt) in 2023 (2022: 85 kt), we have achieved our carbon neutrality commitment within the targeted timeframe. To achieve our target, we continued and expanded existing initiatives and programs to drive efficiency and innovation, following our strategic approach to first avoid, secondly reduce, and thirdly – if no other option is feasible – compensate for residual emissions by investing in high-quality offset projects certified by international standards (for more information, see the section Investing in Carbon Offsets to Compensate for Our Remaining Emissions ). Starting in 2024, we will shift toward reporting on our new leading environmental target of ‘net zero across our entire value chain by 2030.’ 46 In Finance and ESG Data , we provide more details about our environmental data (selected data presented in the linked environmental section was part of the statutory audit or independent limited assurance engagement performed by our external auditor. For more information, see the auditor’s assurance report). ​ 41 Table of Contents After post-COVID-19 catch-up effects and a corresponding increase in 2022, total energy consumption in our own operations decreased slightly in 2023. Looking at the data center electricity consumption, we continue to see a decrease attributable to a shift toward hyperscale services and the implemented energy efficiency measures taking effect. 47 We have continued to reduce all electricity-related emission categories with electricity from renewable energy sources 48 (for more information, see the Key Initiatives to Avoid and Reduce Emissions table below). ​ 47 In 2023, hyperscaler electricity consumption was more than two times that of our co-locations. For more information about our energy consumption, see section Non-Financial Notes: Environmental Performance . 48 For more information, see section Non-Financial Notes: Environmental Performance . ​ 42 Table of Contents Key Initiatives to Avoid and Reduce Emissions Cloud Transformation SAP’s sustainability software portfolio ● SAP delivers sustainability management solutions for sustainability reporting, climate action, circular economy, and social responsibility to enable our customers to run sustainable and resilient operations as described in the Product Strategy section. 49 ● As co-innovation customers for the Sustainability Control Tower, Sustainability Footprint Management, Sustainability Data Exchange, and Green Ledger, various teams such as the Corporate Sustainability team and Sustainability Controlling team provide input and feedback to the development teams with the aim of leveraging a solution that enables companies to record, report, and act on their sustainability goals. Carbon-neutral cloud solutions and product-in-use emissions ​ The vast majority of our overall carbon emissions result from the use of our software . To address this, we aim to help our customers, hardware providers, and others to run more energy-efficient operations. ● By powering all data centers with 100% renewable electricity , 50 we offer our customers carbon-neutral 51 cloud software solutions and help them reduce their overall carbon emissions (upstream scope 3). ● We started to develop a carbon footprint sizing approach with the aim of enabling our customers to gain transparency on the carbon impact of their SAP applications that run in SAP’s internal and external data centers, answering the question of how much our customers can reduce their environmental footprint while running SAP solutions on SAP’s self-operated or on SAP sourced infrastructure. ● We collaborate with customers to optimize their on-premise landscapes so that they consume less energy (for example, we decommission legacy systems, archive unused data, consolidate business applications, and virtualize their system landscapes). ​ ​ Supply Chain Environmentally conscious procurement ● Multi-phased supply chain engagement program: We partner with (top) suppliers to procure low carbon and energy-efficient products and services to reduce their environmental footprint throughout the supply chain. ● We consider environmental requirements in procurement processes and decisions. For more information, see the Sustainable Procurement section. Fostering biodiversity and nature-based solutions to climate change ​ ● Intact forests help to slow climate change, safeguard biodiversity, and provide critical ecosystem services to people. Thus, reforestation projects are one part of SAP’s climate action plan. ● Since 2012, SAP has helped to plant over 16.3 million trees to support ecosystem restoration and sustainable development. SAP will continue to finance nature-based solutions and is committed to planting 21 million trees by the end of 2025 . ● By applying strict quality criteria, SAP aims to support initiatives which restore and protect the right trees in the right places and have a positive impact on the local community, biodiversity, and climate. ● Since 2021, SAP has been part of the 1t.org Corporate Alliance, which mobilizes business leaders to responsibly conserve, restore, and grow trees worldwide while pursuing the 1.5 degrees Celsius science-based target. 49 For more insight into our sustainability software portfolio, see SAP’s Web site (link leads to information that was neither part of the statutory audit nor the independent limited assurance engagement performed by our external auditor). 50 We achieve this by leveraging 1) investments in high-quality, EKOenergy-certified EACs, and 2) renewables produced on-site. The term “data center” refers to both SAP-owned and external data centers (co-location data centers and hyperscalers). 51 Relating to the electricity consumed by cloud solutions from SAP only. ​ 43 Table of Contents ​ ​ Operations Running SAP facilities with 100% renewable electricity Since 2014, SAP has been running all its offices and data centers 52 with 100% renewable electricity in alignment with our commitment toward the RE100 initiative. For this, we use two strategic levers: ● We invest in high-quality, EKOenergy-certified EACs 53 to foster renewable energy generation. ● We produce renewable electricity in selected SAP locations worldwide through solar panels (such as in Palo Alto, CA, in the United States, Bangalore, India, and Mougins, France). At SAP’s headquarters, we are in the process of implementing an on-site Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) solar project with the aim of increasing the share of renewable electricity self-produced on-site and achieving price stability. ● As a potential third lever, we are running a green tariff pilot in Australia to power our local facilities with renewable electricity (bundled EACs). This approach allows us to reduce our entire electricity-consumption-related emissions (2023: 256 kt in total; 161 kt by SAP and 95 kt by suppliers; 2022: 257 kt). Going forward, we aim to expand the usage of Power Purchase Agreements for sourcing renewable electricity. ISO 14001 ​ ● SAP’s environmental management system (EMS) is implemented in over 45 sites in 26 countries worldwide and certified by the internationally recognized ISO 14001:2015 standard. In 2023, we successfully maintained this certification. ● Target: Increase EMS scope to 100% of SAP’s major company-owned sites by 2025 (2023: 86%). ISO 50001 ​ ● SAP’s headquarters in Germany and North America and 100% of SAP’s own major data centers (St. Leon-Rot and Walldorf in Germany, and Colorado Springs and Newtown Square in the United States) operate an ISO 50001:2018-certified energy management system . ● Efficient power usage effectiveness (PUE) 54 at SAP headquarters in Germany and North America: 1.50 ● Core refurbishment of buildings: starting with building WDF01 at SAP’s headquarters in Germany, which aims to save 42% in final energy used annually compared to the previous construction method. ● Centralization of the cooling distribution system at SAP’s headquarters in Germany will allow the usage of environmentally friendly operating fluids and sector coupling (conversion of surplus energy into cooling energy by absorption chillers and use of heat pumps for room cooling). Electricity for the cooling system will be derived primarily from renewable sources (such as solar). Global car fleet: Transition to electric or zero-emission vehicles From 2025 onwards, all new company cars for employees are planned to be emission-free. 55 At the end of 2023, about 14% of our global car fleet comprised emission-free vehicles. SAP also promotes various incentives to accelerate this change, for example: ● We power all SAP-owned charging stations at SAP locations with 100% renewable electricity. ● For larger vehicle fleets such as in Germany, the Netherlands, and others, we offer employees a subsidy to install a charging point at home, and reimburse them for the electricity consumed. As far as legally possible and factually reasonable, we will offer similar subsidies in all countries. ● In some countries, we offer our employees a discount or a higher budget if they choose an all-electric vehicle. ● We continually expand SAP’s global charging infrastructure (2023: 1,650+ charging stations; 2022: 1,100+ charging stations). Alternative commuting ​ To generate a shift in commuting habits and foster inter-/multimodal mobility, we continue to offer various programs, such as: ● Company bicycle leasing programs: Employees can lease bicycles with the option of purchasing them after contract end. Such programs have already been established in Belgium, Germany, and Luxembourg. ● Successful role out of a flexible mobility budget in spring 2023 as a regular mobility alternative in Germany (2023: about 1,950 participants). Participants receive a fixed monthly mobility budget to use any mode of transport to commute to work or in their leisure time (bicycle, e-scooter, rental car, train, bus, and so on). Business flights ​ ● We avoid business flights by investing in virtual collaboration and communication technologies. ● In 2016, we began charging an internal carbon price for business flights , which we invest in high-quality carbon offset projects to counterbalance the carbon emissions these flights cause. By annually increasing the carbon price per flight ticket that is charged to the organizational cost center, we seek to incentivize the organizational units and employees to fly less or to choose an alternative, sustainable mode of travel. 52 The term “data center” refers to both SAP-owned and external data centers (co-location data centers and hyperscalers). 53 For more information, see section Non-Financial Notes: Environmental Performance . 54 The PUE is a ratio that describes the efficiency of a data center, with 1.0 being the ideal ratio. 55 “Emission-free” refers to vehicles that do not emit exhaust gas or other pollutants from the onboard source of power. These vehicles will gradually replace out of plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEV) and vehicles with internal combustion engines (ICEV) as company cars. ​ 44 Table of Contents Investing in Carbon Offsets to Compensate for Our Remaining Emissions SAP financed a diverse portfolio of carbon projects 56 with a strategic focus on natural carbon sinks to help avoid and remove from the atmosphere the equivalent of the remaining emissions from its own operations (2023: 215 kt, 2022: 97 kt; scope 1, 2, and selected scope 3 emissions). 57 All offsets were generated by reforestation, forest protection, rural energy, and agroforestry projects implemented in collaboration with local communities. This voluntary investment in certified carbon offsets helped SAP reach its carbon-neutrality goal in 2023. Carbon Project Portfolio and Long-Term Commitments Offset Provider Description and Details Livelihoods Carbon Funds (LCF) ​ ● SAP committed to invest approx. €10 million (accumulated) in the Livelihoods Carbon Funds 1–3 between the years 2013 and 2045. By year end 2023, SAP had invested approximately 42% of the total commitment. ● The funds prefinance community-based ecosystem restoration, agroforestry, biodiversity preservation, and clean energy projects in developing countries. ● Due diligence is ensured by applying strict, recognized (for example, Gold Standard), project management by trusted partners in collaboration with the local non-profit organizations, and joint overseeing of the strategy, project portfolio, and impact by the corporate co-investors and their individual company criteria. ● Offset volume in 2023: 114 kt Carbon Retailers ​ ● SAP collaborates with an independent third-party carbon rating agency to systematically procure offsets from carbon retailers which are exclusively generated by the highest-rated carbon projects on the market based on the projects’ carbon score, additionality, durability, and co-benefits such as the impact on people and biodiversity. This diligent procurement approach helps SAP mitigate the risk of procuring non-genuine carbon emission reductions while reinforcing our own quality expectations (for more information, see the Non-Financial Notes: Environmental Performance section). ● Offset volume in 2023: 101 kt ​ In 2023, we invested for the first time as a pilot in Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF), to reduce our business-flight-related emissions compared to emissions generated by using conventional (fossil) aviation fuel. 58 Related Risks for SAP In 2022, we performed a climate risk and vulnerability assessment to identify physical climate risks (acute and chronic) that are material to the SAP-relevant activity ‘data processing and hosting,’ as follows: – Risk screening for all our own and co-location data centers based on a multitude of climate hazards (acute and chronic), 59 using global climate models (representative concentration paths (RCPs) 2.6, 4.5, and 8.5). – Deep-dive exposure analysis for a selected range of climate hazards based on 2°C and 4°C scenarios: heatwaves and extreme precipitation (time horizon: 2021–2050) 60 as well as river flooding and water stress (time horizon: 2030 and 2050). 61 The hazards were selected based on the risk screening outcome and impact on data centers combined with expert discussions. – Vulnerability analysis of our own data centers with high exposures helped us identify the impact and risk of a hazard by considering current and past hazard experiences and implemented mitigation actions. – In 2023, we rolled out a vulnerability and adaptation questionnaire to our own data centers to ensure (on - site) measures are planned and/or in place to address the identified applicable main climate change risk (s). ‘Climate change and air quality’ is a risk factor that is assessed as part of SAP’s Corporate Financial Risk Management System. No material financial risks were identified through our risk framework as described in the Risk Factors section. 56 Investments in projects and the corresponding carbon offsets represent a unit of reduced, avoided, or removed GHG emissions. 57 To finance our investments in high-quality carbon offset projects (for example, certified by the Gold Standard) and EACs, we leverage the collected internal air travel fees charged on business flights. 58 We have not (yet) counted the emission reductions received towards our carbon targets. 59 Examples of chronic hazards: changing temperature, heat stress, changing wind patterns, rise in sea level, and soil erosion. Examples of acute hazards: wildfires, water stress, droughts, floods, avalanches, and landslides. 60 Usage of Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) RCP 2.6 and RCP 8.5. 61 Usage of IPCC RCP 4.5 and RCP 8.5. ​ 45 Table of Contents Intellectual Property, Proprietary Rights and Licenses We rely on a combination of the protections provided by applicable statutory and common law rights, including trade secret, copyright, patent, and trademark laws, license and non-disclosure agreements, and technical measures to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our products. For further details on risks related to SAP’s intellectual property rights, see “