Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Expected Developments . Products, Research & Development, and Services In 2021, we expanded on 2020’s REINVENT strategy to “REINVENT how the world runs as a network of intelligent, sustainable enterprises.” Our strategy was built on the following focus areas: –      Helping customers become intelligent and sustainable enterprises –      Creating a network of intelligent, sustainable enterprises –      Enabling a sustainable world The goal of our product and services portfolio is to deliver on this expanded vision. For an overview of our strategy, see the Strategy section. SAP S/4HANA Cloud SAP S/4HANA is our ERP suite with intelligent technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning, and advanced analytics. Running on SAP HANA , the suite combines automation and integrated business processes analytics and a role-based user experience. The suite provides software capabilities for finance, sales, service, procurement, manufacturing, and asset management, as well as research and development (R&D). SAP offers a choice of SAP S/4HANA deployments – in the public cloud via software as a service (SaaS), in a private cloud or on premise as well as a combination in a hybrid deployment. Launched in January 2021, RISE with SAP is our business-transformation-as-a-service offering that aims to support and accelerate customers in their transformation to an intelligent enterprise. It is a package of products and tools and includes SAP S/4HANA Cloud – either public or private deployment options; business process intelligence (BPI) solutions; migration tools and services including the SAP Readiness Check tool and the Custom Code Migration app ; infrastructure provided by any hyperscaler or SAP data center; SAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP) ; and an SAP Business Network Starter Pack . At SAPPHIRE NOW in 2021, we announced the availability of RISE with SAP transformation packages for specific industries that provide business transformation-as-a-service with five industry-tailored cloud solutions for retail, consumer products, automotive, utilities, and industrial machinery and components. RISE with SAP for Modular Cloud ERP , which includes ERP capabilities in different domains and lines of business (LoBs), namely procurement, human experience management (HXM), analytics, and governance, was also announced at our annual event. Around 2,800 SAP S/4HANA customers were added in 2021, bringing the number of customers to approximately 18,800, up 18% year over year. Human Experience Management SAP solutions for human experience management (HXM) under the SAP SuccessFactors brand aim to increase the value of a workforce by developing, managing, engaging, and empowering people. SAP SuccessFactors HXM Suite was designed to provide decision-makers with tools to identify and reduce unconscious bias from key people decisions such as hiring, calibration, and compensation. With embedded analytics throughout the suite, SAP SuccessFactors HXM solutions aim to enable organizations to visualize and forecast diversity trends, as well as track and measure progress against diversity, equity, and inclusion goals through custom reports, dashboards, and scorecards. In 2021, we maintained a leadership position in the Gartner Magic Quadrant for Cloud HCM Suites for 1,000+ Employee Enterprises that we have been awarded for six consecutive years; the 2021 IDC MarketScape Reports for Talent Management for nine consecutive years; and the inaugural The Forrester Wave: Learning Management Systems and Experience Platforms report. Intelligent Spend Management SAP provides a comprehensive set of solutions for customers to better navigate spend management decisions aligned with corporate strategies. It brings together SAP’s intelligent spend management solutions including products branded under SAP Ariba, SAP Concur, and SAP Fieldglass as well as SAP Business Network . Our intelligent spend management solutions aim to address our customers’ end-to-end procurement, travel and expense, and external workforce needs with visibility across the entire supply chain. At SAPPHIRE NOW, we introduced Verify , a new SAP Concur service that uses AI and machine learning to evaluate companies’ expense reports and identify anomalies. 25 Table of Contents Customer Experience Our SAP Customer Experience solutions bring together customer data, machine learning technology, and microservices to support customer engagements across end-to-end processes in the areas of marketing, commerce, sales, and service. The focus for 2021 was maintaining leadership positions in various “magic quadrants” such as Gartner’s Magic Quadrant for Sales Force Automation with SAP Sales Cloud; Forrester Wave for Customer Identity and Access Management (CIAM) with SAP Customer Data Cloud (formerly Gigya); and Gartner Magic Quadrant for Personalization Engines for SAP Emarsys Customer Data platform. SAP Business Technology Platform SAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP) spans a comprehensive set of on-premise and cloud-native technologies and services that support SAP applications across four areas: database and data management; analytics; application development and integration; and AI and robotic process automation. This platform aims to help our customers, partners, and internal development teams to store and manage data, derive insights, build, extend, and integrate applications, as well as optimize and automate business processes in and beyond SAP landscapes. Across technologies, SAP provides customers actionable use cases with prebuilt support and executable code that is ready to deploy. As part of our multi-cloud strategy, we increased our global footprint of SAP BTP by adding to our regional presence in APJ and Europe. New points of presence include Microsoft Azure in Sydney as well as Amazon Web Services (EU Access) and Google Cloud Platform (GCP) in Frankfurt. SAP Business Network SAP officially launched SAP Business Network in June 2021, bringing together Ariba Network, SAP Logistics Network , and SAP Asset Intelligence Network with the aim to unify the points of interaction and integration across trading partners – from supplier collaboration to logistics coordination and traceability, to equipment usage and maintenance. The trading partner directory in SAP Business Network aims to provide trading partners with a view of their customer relationships and transactions on the network. As part of our strategy to make SAP Business Network more open, SAP announced a partnership with Amazon Business in Q3/2021. This partnership aims to enable users to tap into millions of items listed on Amazon Business directly from within SAP Ariba solutions, as well as assist with compliance with corporate purchasing policies. With this partnership and technology integration, Amazon Business becomes a source of supply for Spot Buy , a capability within SAP Ariba solutions for users to purchase items from trusted suppliers. Business Process Intelligence Business process intelligence (BPI) solutions aim to help our customers analyze their operations, understand their process bottlenecks, and improve their business process landscape. Our goal is to offer one integrated BPI portfolio, the SAP Signavio Business Process Management (BPM) Suite . The suite consists of branded SAP Signavio solutions and the SAP Process Insights solution with integration into application lifecycle management solutions SAP Solution Manager and SAP Cloud ALM . The suite aims to deliver business transformation capabilities for our customers and partners with quick time to insights and time to deploy. This portfolio is powered by SAP BTP capabilities such as workflow management, citizen automation, low-code/no-code, and intelligent robotic process automation. Acquisitions such as Signavio and the no-code platform SAP AppGyver contributed to this comprehensive business process transformation solution. Released in September 2021, SAP Process Insights aims to help companies foster continuous improvements with performance views and process drilldowns, as well as recommendations and improvement actions. With the SAP-wide initiative One Process Acceleration Layer (OPAL), we aim to create a primary resource for process repository, process simulation, process mining and analytics, process collaboration, and enterprise-wide dissemination. Sustainable Business Solutions, Services, and Partnerships As a key strategic pillar, sustainability is a topic that is covered across the various SAP product areas along emerging and maturing environmental, social, and governance (ESG) standards from organizations such as the World Economic Forum (WEF), the International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB), the European Union (EU), and others. The goal of our sustainability management solutions is to enable customers to include sustainability as a new dimension into their business processes and operations. SAP offers solutions focusing on ESG reporting, climate change, circular economy, and social responsibility. For more information, see Sustainable Solutions and Products in Use in the Energy and Emissions section. Experience Management Experience Management (XM) refers to both Qualtrics technology as well as the discipline of seeking out and closing the experience gaps across the four core areas of businesses – customer, product, employee, and brand. In 2021, Qualtrics acquired Clarabridge , adding omnichannel conversational analytics to Qualtrics XM Platform . The combination of SAP and Qualtrics’ respective offerings, as well as integration into our suite solutions aim to help organizations and governments bring real-time customer and employee sentiment to their travel and expense programs, vaccination efforts, and business and office reopening. 26 Table of Contents Industry Cloud SAP’s industry cloud is an open innovation space for SAP and our partners to build solutions that make a difference to the core business of our customers. Industry cloud solutions extend the end-to-end processes of SAP S/4HANA, LoB cloud solutions, and SAP Business Network to enable our customers optimize and transform their core business. Industry cloud solutions are built by SAP and partners in the cloud, giving our customers access to the innovation power of an entire ecosystem. The solutions are built on SAP BTP and can use its full spectrum of intelligent technologies and business services. We have an expanding portfolio and a growing ecosystem across all industries. Ecosystem SAP’s ecosystem consists of more than 22,500 partners worldwide in over 140 countries that build, sell, service, and run SAP solutions and technology. The introduction of SAP PartnerEdge Cloud Choice, flex model in 2021 offers greater flexibility for customers, partners, and SAP to support cloud adoption. Through emphasis on landing customers as well as fostering engagement, SAP and our partners have new opportunities in the midmarket and large enterprise segments. Our 2025 ambition is to develop a radically partner-centric approach in line with the wider SAP strategy. Simplifying Partner and Customer Engagement Through RISE with SAP From a services perspective, the RISE with SAP offering simplifies the engagement between SAP, ecosystem partners, and our customers. Aiming to support small and midsize business (SMB) partners, partner services for RISE with SAP are available for the enablement of their teams and offered in partner-led customer engagements. In line with this, SAP Learning Hub aims to support enabling and certificating SMB partners. Services and Support Complementing our software and technology offerings, SAP provides services and support to help customers continually realize business value from their SAP investment. Throughout the customer lifetime partnership, we aim to help customers as they implement and adopt new solutions in the cloud, move legacy solutions to the cloud, or transform their business. Speeding Up the Adoption of SAP Solutions The standardization and automation of our remote service delivery on the Intelligent Service Delivery Hub aims to assist customers with their adoption and improve delivery efficiency and quality. This is a new cloud-based service delivery and collaboration platform for customers, partners, and SAP to use throughout the customer engagement lifecycle. Embedded automation capabilities aim to enable automated quality checks, performance issue detection, and customer notification to mitigate potential issues that may arise. Scaling RISE with SAP To scale the RISE with SAP offering, the SAP Services and Support organization focused on the development of a comprehensive, full-lifecycle adoption methodology. The methodology goal is to drive successful customer adoption and provide clearly outlined deliverables throughout the engagement of each RISE journey in 30/60/90/120-day sprints. The activities during these sprints are closely aligned with the SAP Integrated Delivery Framework , which allows for seamless partner collaboration. Supporting Business Transformation To support our customers in getting started quickly and realizing their desired business transformation, a series of low-touch, fixed scope services were introduced to help customers detail, model, and design the business transformation based on our BPI portfolio. Enabling Use of SAP BTP To scale the delivery of the value of SAP BTP to our customers, all relevant service offerings and methods were adjusted to ensure the ability to use the platform in all service-related projects. To ensure easy integration across different solutions, a program was initiated to make integration-related content available to all customers and the developer community on SAP API Business Hub , the central catalog for integrations and extensions. Starting Fast with Industry Cloud Solutions Industry cloud-based services are now available. These services include industry-specific advisory services that aim to help discover and prioritize innovation opportunities and reimagine business processes with pre-defined templates and accelerators. These industry cloud-based services also include quick-start services to speed functional implementation and technical readiness. Expanding Our Support Offerings SAP continued to expand and scale the capabilities of our customers’ support experience, including the following ways: –      A new version of Built-In Support , a product-embedded digital support assistant, was released. – SAP Cloud ALM has provided implementation and operation capabilities for cloud solutions which now includes solution monitoring, partner delivery content, and APIs, for a number of SAP solutions. –      An engagement model was established where customers, through their Customer Success team at SAP, now have access to domain experts through newly formed Success Centers . – SAP Preferred Success now covers SAP S/4HANA Cloud, private edition and is available through the RISE with SAP offering. 27 Table of Contents – SAP Learning System Access (previously called SAP Live Access) is now available as an integrated platform within SAP Learning Hub, edition for Preferred Success, providing access to live, preconfigured instances of SAP software to carry out class exercises, cross-train, and gain hands-on experience. Simplifying Business Journeys To accelerate the implementation of specific business scenarios, premium engagement services have been bundled into out-of-the box service plans, providing a prescribed implementation approach and road map broken down into phases with individual steps and timelines. Over 25 business scenarios are available. Enhancing the SAP MaxAttention Program The SAP MaxAttention program was expanded to enhance collaboration with customers. This includes continuing the launch of the Intelligent Enterprise institute to help customers explore the full potential of SAP products and solutions through thought leadership, think tanks, and unique events. Chapters have now been established in Berlin, London, and New York. Investment in R&D SAP’s strong commitment to R&D is reflected in our expenditures (see graphic below). In 2021, our IFRS R&D ratio, reflecting R&D expenses as a portion of total operating expenses, increased by 0.9 percentage points (pp) to 22.4% (2020: 21.5%). Our non-IFRS R&D ratio increased by 2.0pp to 23.8% year over year (2020: 21.8%). At the end of 2021, our total full-time equivalent (FTE) headcount in development work was 32,244 (2020: 29,580). Measured in FTEs, our R&D headcount was 30% of total headcount (2020: 29%). Total R&D expense not only includes our own personnel costs but also the external costs of work and services from the providers and cooperation partners we work with to deliver and enhance our products. We also incur external costs for the following: - Translating, localizing, and testing products - Obtaining certification for products in different markets - Patent attorney services and fees - Consulting related to our product strategy - Professional development of our R&D workforce. Patents SAP actively seeks intellectual property protection for innovations and proprietary information. Our software innovations continue to strengthen our market position as a leader in business solutions and services. Our investment in R&D has resulted in numerous patents. As at December 31, 2021, SAP held a total of more than 11,605 (2020: 10,931) validated patents worldwide. Of these, 793 (2020: 897) were granted and validated in 2021. While our intellectual property is important to our success, we believe our business as a whole is not dependent on any particular patent or a combination of patents. Security, Data Protection, and Privacy Vision and Strategy Every day, organizations around the world trust SAP with their data – either on premise at their physical locations, in the cloud, or when using mobile devices while on the move. Our customers need to know that our goal is to keep their data safe, process it in a manner that complies with local legislation, and protect it from malicious use. For this reason, cybersecurity and security, as well as data protection and privacy, are of paramount importance to us. 28 Table of Contents SAP Global Security Cloud solutions and services are increasingly important to many companies' daily operations. The COVID-19 pandemic has shown that digital solutions are critical to business resilience. As a result, digital transformation is accelerating and cybersecurity is now even more crucial to IT security professionals and business leaders, particularly in those enterprises that have moved their core processes to the cloud. The SAP strategy is focused on helping customers transform into intelligent and sustainable enterprises. Our SAP Global Security (SGS) organization supports this journey with its goal of reducing risk and promoting regulatory compliance, and by aligning people, procedures, and technology to protect business processes and data. The organization embraces and encourages a security-minded culture that embeds security in our development and deployment processes and helps secure digital transformation. SGS supports key stakeholders in our lines of business (LoBs), IT, and the presales organization in securing solutions, and drives operational excellence for security across the enterprise. To protect the organization’s data and assets and support high-quality risk management and reporting, SGS regularly reviews and adapts our security policies, standards, and frameworks. Data Protection With our global product and services portfolio, SAP aims to protect the rights of individuals involved and meet relevant local requirements when processing personal data. In addition, we strive to strengthen SAP’s reputation in the long term as a sustainable and trustworthy partner in the market. We have implemented safeguards to help protect the fundamental rights of everyone whose data is processed by SAP, whether they are customers, suppliers, partners, prospects, employees, or applicants. We develop and pursue our global data protection and privacy strategy in accordance with our business strategy. Our global data protection and privacy strategy is to constantly monitor the global regulatory data protection compliance landscape, identify relevant stakeholders, and enable them to take necessary measures for their adoption. It is also designed to safeguard the processing of personal data. The strategy consists of four pillars to help meet compliance with applicable data protection laws and regulations. These pillars comprise the global data protection and privacy policy; mandatory global data protection and privacy training for employees; our global data protection and privacy coordinator network; and the global data protection management system – and are all aiming to ensure that we comply with applicable data protection laws. Due Diligence for Security Topics Governance SGS is led by a chief security officer who reports directly to the SAP CEO. SGS divisions are responsible for areas such as product and application security, cyberdefense, operational security risk management, security compliance, executive protection, physical security, and a Trust Office that supports customers and partners with security-related issues. The SAP Security Governance Model is designed to ensure executive engagement and facilitates shared responsibility in semiannual SAP Security Advisory Board and monthly Security Council meetings, as well as in biweekly updates to the Executive Board. Our commitment to customers is to be open and transparent about security vulnerabilities. To ensure this, we work with several external stakeholder groups including SAP user groups for the Americas and for German-speaking countries. Guidelines and Policies The purpose of the SAP Global Security Policy is to provide governance and structure for an appropriate and effective level of information security within SAP and our affiliated businesses. Aligned with the overall SAP corporate strategy and vision, it details the management intent, expectations, and strategic goals and objectives for SAP security. This policy provides high-level requirements for numerous security domains. These include, but are not limited to, access control, physical security, network security management, incident response, and acceptable use. These requirements apply to all SAP employees, our contractors, consultants, as well as external parties that are granted access to SAP information and information assets. SAP reviews the SAP Global Security Policy annually and enacts modifications as deemed appropriate and necessary to protect SAP and our own and our customers’ data and assets where new threats or vulnerabilities are identified. All SAP employees are required to read and adhere to this internal policy. The SAP Security Policy Framework consists of several levels of security documents that support the requirements described in the policy. In addition, the different LoBs at SAP may have supporting policies, standards, procedures, and practices. Due Diligence for Data Protection Topics Governance Within the scope of their responsibilities, our global data protection officer (DPO) monitors the compliance of activities involving the processing of personal data. The DPO reports to the SAP CFO. Within the Executive Board, the SAP CFO is responsible for compliance and enforcement of data protection and privacy. The DPO owns the SAP Global Data Protection and Privacy Policy that addresses SAP’s data protection governance, and regularly informs the CFO about the status of data protection compliance in the SAP Group. To meet and ensure consistent security and data protection compliance, SAP has implemented a formal governance model that assigns clear responsibilities across the SAP Group. Upon request, the DPO attends steering committee meetings and reports on matters relevant to data protection to the Audit and Compliance Committee of the SAP Supervisory Board. 29 Table of Contents SAP has established a global network of data protection and privacy coordinators (DPPCs) across all SAP Group entities that process personal data. This DPPC network is aimed to ensure data protection and privacy compliance on a local level. Local DPPCs increase awareness by conducting local training. Where new data protection laws evolve, they also help the Data Protection and Privacy (DPP) team acting on behalf of the DPO identify and analyze them. If this requires compliance activities, they align with the affected LoBs and help drive the relevant implementation. Additional regional DPPCs further support and monitor changes to applicable laws. The DPPC network regularly engages with SAP’s government relations team to represent SAP’s interests in the legislative process. In this regard, SAP is participating in external working groups to help align industry-specific interests with respective governments. Global data protection and privacy training is conducted globally every two years and mandatory for SAP employees. This training helps our workforce handle personal data with due care and in accordance with the law and to maintain compliance with data protection requirements in their work. SAP has implemented a data protection management system (DPMS) for our organization. The DPMS is set according to the generally recognized standard for data protection management systems as defined in the British Standard BS 10012, which comprises the data protection requirements of the European Union (EU) General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) since version 10012:2017. The DPMS covers almost all LoBs (excluding Qualtrics) and is planned to be implemented in all acquired companies as well. It is designed as a framework covering all aspects of data protection compliance of SAP organizations and employees. The DPMS is used as SAP standard methodology to ensure compliance with data protection legislation. The maintenance of the framework is subject to certification from the British Standards Institution that confirms data protection compliance annually. Guidelines and Policies The SAP Global Data Protection and Privacy Policy outlines a group-wide minimum standard for data protection-compliant processing of personal data. It defines requirements for business processes that involve personal data, and assigns clear responsibilities. The principles established by this policy take into account the requirements of the EU GDPR. They apply generally and globally to SAP Group affiliates. Additional data protection and privacy requirements, if applicable, are adopted on a local level as necessary. We actively monitor changes to applicable laws and regulations so that we can update our standards on an ongoing basis as necessary to meet data protection compliance. The policy was last updated in 2019. How We Measure and Manage Our Performance Security Compliance processes at SAP adhere to trust-service criteria established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). Our security, availability, privacy, confidentiality, and processing integrity controls are designed to achieve the appropriate control objectives. In addition, independent, external auditing partners regularly conduct security compliance audits. SAP discloses vulnerabilities on the second Tuesday of every month (“Patch Day”). This disclosure mechanism provides customers with authoritative, public information about SAP software vulnerabilities from SAP that can be integrated with their existing risk management processes and tools. SAP strives to reduce risk by continuously improving our processes for detecting and remediating attacks and vulnerabilities. To that end, we: - Engage in approximately 130 internal and external audits across SAP globally - Monitor and support our cloud and IT units with 1,700 controls that are audited and tested for design and operating effectiveness - Offer service organization control (SOC) reports – such as SOC 1 Type II/ISAE 3402 and SOC 2 Type II/ISAE 3000 – to provide insights into the design and operating effectiveness of internal control systems implemented within cloud delivery units - Let external, internationally accredited auditors assess and certify our cloud services according to various reporting standards and ISO certifications, such as ISO 9001, ISO 27001, ISO 27017, ISO 27018, and ISO 22301, in addition to BS 10012 Data Protection To help ensure necessary knowledge about data protection, global data protection and privacy training is mandatory for SAP employees. The latest training was rolled out in 2021 as per the two-year renewable cycle. We monitor compliance of data protection-relevant procedures across SAP. We maintain a record of processing activities (“procedure enrollment tool”), in which procedures that process personal data must be documented. The record entries contain general information about the procedure according to defined criteria necessary to meet proper documentation. The record entries are reportable and regularly reviewed. We also track the quality of our data protection compliance level based on the annual recertification of our DPMS by the British Standards Institution (BSI). SAP has been audited by the BSI annually and awarded certifications according to BS 10012 since 2011. The most recent certification is valid until 2022. SAP's own quality standards and international regulations require careful selection and monitoring of subprocessors processing personal data on behalf of SAP and SAP customers. With the goal that all subprocessors meet protection and security requirements for the processing of personal data, SAP has implemented a subprocessor verification process. All of SAP's subprocessors (for example, suppliers, vendors, and partners) are subject to this process. The process comprises three main compliance criteria for data protection-relevant subprocessors: (i) contractual compliance; (ii) self-assessments based on a questionnaire including transfer impact assessments on international data transfers to third countries; and (iii) remote and/or on-site audits. SAP respects the rights of the data subjects to obtain information as to whether or not personal data concerning them is being processed. All necessary information is made available to the data subjects within the framework of the privacy statements on the respective SAP Web sites. In 2021, SAP experienced two significant incidents in processing personal data – on our own behalf – that were subject to GDPR only and were reported to the supervisory authorities. 30 Table of Contents Related Risks for SAP For related risks, see the Risk Factors section, specifically the Cybersecurity and Security and Data Protection and Privacy subsections. Customers Vision and Strategy Focusing on Customer Success We aim to maximize the value our customers derive from their investment in and relationship with SAP at every touchpoint in their experience with us over the engagement lifecycle. Our focus on value and experience drives our customers’ success. Our customer-facing teams – across solutions, sales, services, customer engagement, ecosystem, and others – work together along an operating model that aims to harmonize internal processes with the goal of delivering improved outcomes for our customers. Company-Wide Experience (XM) Program To further address and improve on customer feedback through research conducted using Qualtrics solutions, we developed the Company-Wide Experience (XM) program. This is an example of a program we have implemented aiming to achieve a consistent end-to-end experience for our customers. This program includes standardizing experience initiatives and methodologies to help identify and improve experience gaps across SAP. Due Diligence Governance The head of Customer Success leads customer-facing engagements across SAP’s business. The Chief Marketing & Solutions Officer leads the development of our solution value propositions to provide clarity on SAP’s core differentiators. The People & Operations Board area is responsible for conducting the Company-Wide XM program, including conducting the Customer Net Promoter Score (NPS) survey. Guidelines and Policies Numerous policies govern our relationships with our customers, including the Employee Code of Conduct , SAP Human Rights Commitment statement, and applicable General Terms and Conditions for our products. How We Measure and Manage Our Performance We use the Customer Net Promoter Score (NPS) as a feedback mechanism to measure customer loyalty. This and other results from the customer survey allow us to directly understand what our customers are thinking and identify key pain points for action. Because of the importance of customers to SAP, Customer NPS is one of our main KPIs. In 2021, our Customer NPS 8 increased 6 points year over year to 10 (2020: 4), achieving the upper end of our target range of 5 to 10. We aim to continue to increase our Customer NPS to a range of 11 to 15 points in 2022. Further, we want to see continuous improvements and increase the score steadily in the medium term. Customer NPS is a KPI in Executive Board remuneration as part of the short-term incentive component. For more information about the Customer NPS, see the Performance Management System section. Related Risks for SAP For related risks, see Sales and Services in the Risk Factors section. 8 As part of a multi-year harmonization process, the survey question used to measure NPS was adjusted in 2021. Therefore, the results may not be fully comparable. For more information, see the Performance Management System section. ​ 31 Table of Contents Human Capital Resources Vision and Strategy People are at the heart of our organization. Aiming for a highly engaged, diverse, future-fit workforce equipped with the right skills helps SAP attract the best talent. Interwoven with our product and go-to-market strategies, our People Strategy is centered around the employee journey and their experience. Just as we help our customers digitalize and simplify their processes, we strive to do the same for our employees by empowering them to bring value to our customers. We continue to evolve and execute along seven strategic pillars from 2020 that contribute to our business strategy and value generation. We summarize this value generation across three themes , powered by operational excellence to showcase Human Experience Management: – Building the Skills for the Future by attracting the best and most diverse talent and continuously up-/reskilling our people – Driving SAP’s Winning Culture by fostering a culture enabling and rewarding impact and business outcomes – Changing the Way We Lead by driving for accountability and empowerment, in a healthy, inclusive, and diverse environment Due Diligence Governance Since January 1, 2021, Sabine Bendiek has served as Chief People Officer and Labor Relations Director and led our HR organization. On July 1, 2021, she also became Chief Operating Officer and has since been responsible for the Executive Board area People & Operations as Chief People & Operating Officer. To best support our People Strategy, we reshaped our HR organization in 2021 and it now includes the following functional areas: a newly introduced Future of Work team (including Global Health & Well-Being); Global Diversity & Inclusion; SAP Learning; Talent Attraction; and Total Rewards. In addition, Global People Success Services combines the HR Business Partner organization with Global HR Service Delivery. Guidelines and Policies SAP is committed to ensuring a fair and equal treatment of all employees in a sustainable manner. For that reason, we established comprehensive policies that guide us in our daily business. Examples are our Global Anti-Discrimination Policy and Global Health & Safety Policy . How We Measure and Manage Our Performance The impact of our people strategy is measured by seven KPIs. 9 Five out of the seven KPIs are based on the results of our engagement survey program “#Unfiltered. ” With #Unfiltered, we strengthen our commitment to listen regularly to our employees and act together on their feedback. In 2021, we defined strategy, health and well-being, and equality as areas where we increased our focus. We gauged the sentiment on these topics, as well as employee engagement and leadership trust, twice over the year. The average scores from both data collections were used as the full-year Employee Engagement Index and Leadership Trust Net Promoter Score (NPS). The Employee Engagement Index 10 decreased to 83% (–3 pp compared to 2020) and is slightly below our target range. For 2022 through 2025, our ambition remains to keep the Employee Engagement Index score between 84% and 86%. Our Leadership Trust NPS reached an all-time high of 67 in 2021 (2020: 62) since its introduction in 2013. For more information about the measurement of leadership trust, see the Performance Management System section. We measure the progress of individual employee and organizational health through the Business Health Culture Index 11 (BHCI). In 2021, the BHCI was 81% (2020: 80%) and exceeded the upper end of our target range. For 2022 through 2025, our ambition remains to keep the BHCI between 78% and 80%. We continuously monitor our innovation culture and simplification of processes. We adjusted the composition of both indices to better reflect the dimensions we would like to improve, even though we consider the scores comparable. In 2021, we achieved a very strong Innovation Culture Index 12 of 89% (last measured in 2019 based on different survey questions and reported as an Innovation Score of 79%). After a slight dip in 2020 (58%), the Simplification of Processes Index 13 rebounded to 66% in 2021, indicating that our investments in this area took effect. In addition, we measured a Retention Rate of 92.8% (2020: 95.3%). We define retention as the ratio of the average number of employees, minus employees who voluntarily departed (excluding restructuring-related terminations), to the average number of employees (in full-time equivalents or FTEs). The rate of Women in Managemen t 14 increased to 28.3% compared to 27.5% in 2020. Through 2022, our ambition remains to increase the rate of women in management to 30%. 9 In the Human Capital Resources section, the metrics Employee Retention, External Hires, Female External Hires, Headcount, Women in Management, and Women in Workforce include Qualtrics data. All other metrics are reported excluding Qualtrics. 10 We define employee engagement as an index score of five items measuring the satisfaction and commitment of our employees, how proud they are of our company, and how strongly they identify with SAP. 11 The index covers questions concerning how employees rate their personal well-being and the working conditions at SAP, including our leadership culture. 12 The index consists of four items showing to what extent employees feel encouraged and supported to innovate. 13 The index consists of seven items showing ease of understanding and use of our processes at SAP. 14 This includes manager managing teams, manager managing managers, Executive Board members. 32 Table of Contents Our Key People-Related KPIs at a Glance Below is an overview of how we put the three themes of our people strategy and overall KPIs into practice. Building the Skills for the Future Attracting, hiring, and onboarding the best and most diverse talent is key for the future success of SAP. After a unique 2020 shaped by the global pandemic, in 2021, we saw a significantly increased competition for talent all over the globe. Our refreshed employer value proposition – including a stronger focus on “ Early Talents ” (defined as hires with 0–3 years of experience in a professional setting hired into professional roles 15 ) and innovation – is key to us attracting people with the right fit. Despite ongoing challenges due to the pandemic, we were still able to make advancements in building a highly inclusive workforce across various demographic aspects (among others, e.g. generations, gender, nationalities). Overall, we externally hired 13,854 (2020: 8,486) employees, of whom 33.1% (2020: 29.4%) were Early Talents and 38.1% (2020: 35.5%) women. We strive to position SAP as a talent magnet. SAP has earned 160 (2020: 125) employer recognitions, most notably the World’s Best Workplaces by Great Place to Work, World’s Most Attractive Employer by Universum and LinkedIn Talent Award – Best Employer Brand by LinkedIn. Additionally, we worked closely with more than 2,700 academic institutions on events, executive lectures, office visits, competitions, student club sponsorships, and workshops to attract students and graduates. Our universal SAP Internship Experience Program has continued to expand and now exists in 22 countries with a total of 1,461 (2020: 597) participants around the world. In 2021, more than 1,200 students were enrolled in SAP’s vocational training program (in Australia, Brazil, China, Germany, Hungary, India, Ireland, Japan, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea, Switzerland, and the United States). The conversion rate (number of students who stayed with SAP after completing their dual studies) for vocational training students was 75% in 2021 (2020: 67%). The average tenure remained at the same high level (2021: 8.0 years; 2020: 7.6 years). Even when employees leave SAP, it is important that we stay connected. Our SAP Alumni Network offers a program to keep our former colleagues connected and foster a trusted network for the benefit of SAP and our ecosystem. In 2021, our alumni community included 14,909 former (2020: 9,096) and 4,379 current (2020: 4,082) SAP employees. As part of our strategic pillar "building the skills for the future," we focus on our skill transformation. SAP expects a shift in current skills that will cease to exist and new capabilities that will be needed in the future. In some cases, this shift is predictable, while in others it will require an adaptive workforce management approach focusing on continuous skill transformation to ensure our people are equipped to support future work requirements. At SAP, learning mainly happens on the job, through interactions with colleagues and formal learning activities. Self-paced online programs and live interactive training, including courses for technical, functional, and professional skills, are open to all employees. Our peer-to-peer learning portfolio encompasses coaching, mentoring, job shadowing, and facilitation opportunities. In 2021, 97% of our employees participated in learning and logged more than three million hours of trackable learning. Additionally, 22,574 of our employees went through targeted upskilling programs tied to SAP’s cloud journey. The successful delivery of our strategy also requires a robust succession management process. Therefore, in 2021, we launched a systematic approach focusing on our most critical and highest value-generating roles. It incorporates a clearly defined succession pipeline and targeted development and exposure for incumbents and successors to these roles. 15 In 2021, we adjusted the definition of Early Talents In the past, the term referred to external hires of graduates with up to two years' professional experience post graduation. 33 Table of Contents Driving SAP’s Winning Culture With our next-generation performance management approach, we aim to establish a high-performance culture, by linking business goals to the impact of individuals and teams with development opportunities and meaningful reward packages. Smart and transparent goal-setting approaches and continuous review processes, as well as equitable, competitive, and differentiated compensation structures, are a necessary foundation to drive high performance. It is critical that our employees see the link between their individual contribution and SAP's future success. Early in 2021, SAP’s top leadership set goals for their organization and made them visible to all employees. During a newly established “ People Day ,” all employees at SAP were given time to reflect on SAP’s strategy and connect their goals and development to our direction. During “ SAP Talk ” dialogues, goals are set and viewed by the employees together with their managers. To strengthen the link between employees’ compensation and SAP’s corporate success, we also increased our investment in Move SAP , our long-term share-based incentive plan that rewards employees who provide a significant impact to SAP’s business success. Another model component of our equity offering is Own SAP , a global share purchase plan, where 78% of our employees overall participated with an investment of 5,655,937 shares. For more information, see the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Note (B.3) . Furthermore, in 2021, we also launched an equity-based COVID-19 Recognition Plan for all non-executive employees to recognize their resilience and commitment to business continuity during this difficult period. Changing the Way We Lead Strong, future-oriented leadership is key for successfully executing our strategy and becoming more agile, ethical, inclusive, and accountable. To guide our leaders, support their development, and move our organization forward in our journey to the cloud, we began the rollout in 2021 of a refreshed leadership culture and credo : “Do what’s right. Make SAP better for generations to come.” This empowers our leaders to make decisions and holds them accountable while focusing on the future of SAP. Our leadership culture is reinforced by traditional, peer, and experiential learning journeys. These journeys focus on building management, leadership, and cloud skills to promote a shared understanding and reinforce leadership behavior and accountability. In 2021, we focused on a more consistent enablement of our people managers. We scaled the delivery of our flagship leadership programs, and focused on training on psychological safety across our organization. We report that 29.4% of SAP’s people managers have completed these leadership development training sessions. In addition to our new leadership culture, one further strategic pillar is to pursue an agile, entrepreneurial, healthy, and innovative organization. With the COVID-19 pandemic already into a second year, our environment is changing at an increasing pace and the needs of our customers are shifting quickly. To deliver our business ambitions in this environment, SAP will continue to evolve our organization toward greater agility and innovation. It is our ambition to foster a culture that enables people to run at their best, by providing innovative health and well-being programs and solutions. Future of Work : In June, the Executive Board announced “ Pledge to Flex ,” an SAP-wide commitment that empowers our employees to choose when and where to work best as their roles and tasks allow. Flexibility at work is considered a critical factor to attract and retain talent in the tech industry; Pledge to Flex also strengthens SAP’s employer brand. The local implementation of flex work along aligned guidelines and country-specific legal regulations is essential to providing an engaging and collaborative working environment. These activities are complemented by efforts to leverage advanced technologies and new facility concepts in frontrunner locations such as Dublin/Galway, London, Montréal, and Zurich. Health and Well-Being: When people are healthy, respected, and cared for, it results in greater productivity, engagement, innovation, and customer satisfaction. The global pandemic has enforced changes to societal living that are resulting in increasing trends of mental health challenges and sedentary lifestyles. Listening to employees’ feedback in the #Unfiltered survey, we have enhanced health offerings that support a healthy workplace and work culture. In 2021, SAP’s Global Pandemic Taskforce continued to coordinate and adjust countermeasures against the pandemic around the globe, utilizing employee feedback based on regular remote pulse checks on how employees experience their individual situation. Another focus was on COVID-19 Vaccination Programs in many SAP locations, where we offered vaccinations free of charge to SAP employees, their dependents, and, in some instances, to the general public. Seeing the need for employees to unplug, April 27, 2021, was dedicated as Mental Health Day , a company-sponsored global vacation day for all employees. SAP provided the opportunity for all employees to take the time off for themselves and their families. In addition, SAP participates in the Healthy Workplaces Lighten the Load campaign by the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work, which enables leaders and employees to discover new ways to lighten the load of life’s stressors by fostering healthy working and lifestyle habits for good physical and mental health. Innovation : In support of our entrepreneurial journey, SAP.iO accelerates, incubates, and scales startup innovation and explores new business models for SAP. In 2021, the SAP.iO intrapreneurship program continued to help identify high-potential entrepreneurial employees at SAP and was able to jump-start 275 venture ideas, seeking investment by the SAP.iO Venture Studio . Another initiative to foster innovation is the prestigious Hasso Plattner Founders’ Award . It provides the highest internal employee recognition at SAP, based on the three categories: Go-To-Market, Operational Excellence, and Products and Technology. For 2021, the awards went to “Support Assistant: Delighting Customers by Solving Issues Faster” (Go-To-Market); “Cloud Health Score Based on Machine Learning” (Operational Excellence); and “SAP Information Collaboration Hub for Life Sciences” (Products and Technology). Winners were chosen from 192 nominations, with a total of 1,260 employees participating from 42 countries. At SAP, we are always striving for inclusion and reflecting the diversity of society. As a global organization with 161 nationalities in our workforce, our aspiration is that SAP’s employees mirror the diversity in society that includes the gender parity and demographics of all of the regions where we have employees. With our Diversity and Inclusion Strategy , we set our long-term focus to ensure we cover critical areas such as providing inclusive career journeys, creating a culture of inclusive collaboration, and improving our diverse ecosystem through supplier diversity efforts, an inclusive language campaign, and accessibility efforts. 34 Table of Contents Gender inclusion, advancement, and equality : Currently, SAP’s representation of women in the overall workforce is 34.3% (2020: 33.6%), with the representation of women in management roles at 28.3% (2020: 27.5%). We continue to advance workplace equity through promoting inclusive policies on flexible work arrangements, enhanced parental leave benefits, and a focus on fair pay. We are present in the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index in 2019, 2020, and again in 2021, confirming our commitment to gender equity. Autism inclusion : The Autism at Work program supports a workforce that includes 217 colleagues on the autism spectrum in 16 countries. The Autism Inclusion Network is an employee-led network group focused on spreading autism acceptance. The SAP Autism Inclusion Pledge extends SAP’s autism inclusion endeavors by sharing what we have learned with our customer and partner ecosystem. Race and ethnicity : Back in 2016, SAP identified challenges with underrepresentation of Black, African American, Latinx, and Native American employees in the workforce. We created reporting to track our progress toward a better representation in accordance with required regulations in different countries and in line with our diversity and inclusion objectives. Among many efforts across the globe, this included the establishment of a new goal kicked off in 2020 to double the share of Black and African American employees in the workforce in the United States within the next three years. Built on the “Equality for All” initiative by the Human Rights Campaign, SAP supported the Spotlight Black Businesses program to showcase and promote small Black-owned businesses and introduce them to new audiences. LGBTQ+ inclusion : SAP was among the first supporters of the United Nations Global LGBTI Standards of Conduct for Business and has been named again the Top #1 employer in Germany’s Pride Index. SAP has also been recognized by organizations including the Human Rights Campaign in the United States, the Pride Business Forum in the Czech Republic, and the Swiss LGBTI Label for our inclusion efforts. The employee-driven Pride@SAP LGBTQ+ network also celebrated its 20th anniversary in 2021. In addition, SAP supports numerous global Employee Network Groups that offer activities and events from which SAP can help attract and retain people from diverse backgrounds. Accessibility: SAP is designing a work experience where all employees feel that they belong and can contribute to a culture of equality and inclusion. A major component of this effort is creating accessibility in the workplace that removes barriers for differently abled persons. New technologies, such as eye-tracking are in our focus and will be continuously evaluated and implemented. Pushing Operational Excellence and Showcasing Human Experience Management to Customers Delivering engaging experiences for SAP’s customers starts with our own workforce. A continued emphasis on operational excellence and experience management is key to delivering our human experience management (HXM) solutions and services efficiently, with both empathy and compliance. SAP runs SAP SuccessFactors -branded solutions as our global software to manage people data. Additionally, the adoption of Qualtrics solutions integrated with SAP SuccessFactors solutions enables us to determine ways to improve the experience of our candidates and employees along the employee journey. Such data insights are the fuel to leverage intelligent technologies such as SAP Conversational AI services on our SAP Careers site along with Brilliant Hire by SAP as a skills and interest-based matching engine for candidates to receive job recommendations from SAP. Our internal HR chatbot provides instant responses to HR-related questions to all SAP employees around the world, 24x7. Machine learning capabilities are leveraged to analyze the skills needed for the future, based on external and internal data sources to provide a decision framework for hiring and learning programs. Related Risks for SAP No material risks were identified through our framework which is detailed in the Risk Factors section. Energy and Emissions Vision and Strategy To bring SAP’s purpose of “helping the world run better and improving people’s lives” to life, our sustainability activities and programs are aimed at creating positive economic, environmental, and social impact within planetary boundaries. In light of the aggravating climate change impacts and other intensifying global challenges, such as biodiversity loss and population growth, climate action has been put at the top of SAP’s corporate sustainability agenda – which was also reconfirmed by the latest conducted materiality analysis. Our strategy to create positive impact and to address climate action is implemented through a dual approach: (1) SAP as enabler : We aim to provide products and services to our customers to reduce their carbon emissions and pave the way towards a low-carbon future together; and (2) SAP as exemplar : To live up to our corporate responsibility and to build climate resilience, we strive towards leading by example in SAP’s business operations and practices by running our own operations more sustainably. ​ 35 Table of Contents Due Diligence Governance The Executive Board sponsor for sustainability, including climate action, is the SAP CFO. The responsibility for driving SAP’s holistic, cross-company sustainability agenda is shared between the core sustainability team and the Sustainability Council, which are both chaired and led by the chief sustainability officer (CSO). The CSO’s team coordinates SAP's response to climate change (including assessing and managing climate-related risks through a quarterly risk review, setting reduction targets, measuring and monitoring carbon emissions on a quarterly basis, and embedding sustainability-related initiatives across SAP), while it is the Council members’ responsibility to integrate sustainability into the core business of their particular Board area, measure and report on their Board areas’ progress, act as an ethical advisory board for the Company, and communicate with internal and external audiences on the business relevance of the topic. This happens in close cooperation with various other departments such as the global procurement organization, which aims to ensure that the Company purchases energy-efficient, sustainable products and services. The global facilities management team designs and operates our facilities based on robust environmental standards such as ISO 14001. Our global cloud services organization considers the optimization of the energy consumption in our data centers, while SAP’s IT operations personnel is encouraged to use IT equipment and business software responsibly. To be able to innovate and embed sustainability further, we regularly engage externally with various stakeholder groups such as non-governmental organizations (NGOs), non-profit organizations (NPOs), and academia. This notably includes an external sustainability advisory panel comprised of expert representatives from our customers, investors, partners, NGOs, and academia, which provide us with valuable outside-in feedback and advice. Guidelines and Policies Our global environmental policy provides the core framework for how we manage our environmental impact – in our own operations and with our customers. Updated regularly and approved by the CFO, this policy guides our efforts to reduce our ecological footprint, provide environmental performance transparency, and demonstrate sustainable leadership through transformational strategies. In addition, it helps us to comply with internationally recognized sustainability standards as well as stakeholder expectations, primarily those of customers, investors, and employees. How We Measure and Manage Our Performance Our Targets In 2017, we set our leading environmental target of making our operations carbon neutral by 2025. However, to consider the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our carbon emissions, to strive toward a role model position in sustainability, and to maintain our ambition level, we decided to revise and accelerate our carbon neutral target: We now aim to become carbon neutral in our own operations by 2023 – two years earlier than what we had aimed for thus far. This target refers to our total net carbon emissions, which are calculated by deducting purchased renewable energy certificates, self-generated renewable energy, and carbon offsets from our gross carbon emissions in the respective reporting period. Our carbon neutral target includes all direct and indirect emissions from running our business (Scope 1 and Scope 2) 16 as well as a selected subset of indirect emissions from our value chain (Scope 3). 17 This objective is key to reducing SAP’s own environmental footprint and to combatting climate change – one important step towards contributing to SAP’s overarching purpose. To achieve our carbon neutral target and to track its progress, we have derived annual targets for our internal operational steering. Since the beginning of 2020, these annual targets have been integrated in the Executive Board’s short-term performance-based compensation. Since 2017, we have complied with the requirements of the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) and are committed to reducing emissions by 85% by 2050 compared to the base-year level 2016, including our entire Scope 3 value chain emissions such as our products-in-use emissions at our customers. Confirmed by the SBTi in a 2019 reassessment, this target reflects the level of decarbonization required to keep the global temperature increase below 1.5 degrees Celsius compared to preindustrial temperatures. However, to meet a net-zero future, in 2022 we aim to further accelerate our climate ambitions by committing to achieve net zero across our entire value chain by 2030 in alignment with the SBTi Net-Zero Standard - 20 years earlier than originally planned. Performance and Measures to Progress As a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, as well as the introduction of a more flexible working model at SAP, carbon-intensive business activities, in particular business travel-related activities, increased moderately during the year, but remained at a low level overall. As a result, our carbon emissions have continued to decrease. Even though our employee headcount increased by 4.9%, our net carbon emissions dropped to 110 kilotons 18 (kt), representing a year-over-year decrease of 18.5% (2020: 135 kt). In July 2021, we had already reduced our carbon emissions outlook for 2021 from 145 kt to a range of 90 kt to 110 kt to reflect the expected impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on SAP’s business results. 16 Scope 1 includes: Stationary Combustion and Refrigerants in Facilities, Mobile Combustion and Refrigerants in Corporate Cars, Mobile Combustion in Corporate Jets. Scope 2 includes: Electricity in Offices, Electricity in Data Centers, Purchases of Chilled and Hot Water, Steam. 17 Scope 3 includes: Rental Cars, Business Flights, Train Travel, Business Trips with Private Cars, Employee Commuting, Electricity External Data Centers, Electricity Used by Hyperscale Services, and Logistics. 18 We report all our carbon emissions in CO 2 equivalents (CO 2 e). 36 Table of Contents Due to the COVID-19 pandemic and SAP’s pledge to flexible, trust-based working styles, electricity consumption in our offices continued to be low as the majority of employees remained in a remote working model. Our total energy consumption 19 remains lower than before the COVID-19 pandemic. However, in light of an increasing external data center electricity consumption (including hyperscale services), the total amount of energy consumption has slightly increased year over year. Our focus on climate action has contributed to a cumulative cost avoidance of €743.5 million in the past three years. We achieved 55% of this cost avoidance in 2021. Cost avoidance is a financial key figure that indicates the financial benefits of SAP’s engagement in sustainability measures compared to a business-as-usual scenario where no sustainability measures have been implemented (base year: 2016). To become carbon neutral even in times of ongoing growth in our business, we continue to drive our three-pillar strategy of “avoid – reduce – compensate.” In 2021, key initiatives following this approach included: Facilities, Data Centers, and Renewable Electricity To lead by example and continually improve the environmental footprint of its own operations, SAP has thus far implemented an environmental management system (EMS) at more than 50 sites in around 30 countries worldwide. The EMS is certified by the renowned ISO 14001:2015 standard and successfully maintained its certification in 2021. Its scope will be gradually increased from currently 77% to 100% of SAP’s major company-owned sites by 2025. To further increase our energy efficiency, selected sites such as SAP’s headquarters in Germany also operate an ISO 50001:2018-certified energy management system. As more business moves to the cloud, data centers play an increasing key role in SAP providing solutions to our customers. Running solutions on SAP data centers and completing thousands of cloud solution transactions per day requires central processing units (CPUs), memory, storage, and cooling, and therefore electricity – which ultimately results in carbon emissions. This is why our internal data centers have become a primary focus of our carbon reduction efforts. We have introduced initiatives to drive efficiency and innovation with respect to our buildings, data center operations, and infrastructure (such as the installment of new co-generation units and the replacement of old back-up batteries with more efficient lithium-ion batteries in the data centers in St. Leon-Rot, Germany). At our SAP headquarters in Germany and North America, we operate our own data centers with an efficient power usage effectiveness (PUE) of 1.38. The PUE is a ratio that describes the efficiency of a data center, with 1.0 being the ideal. 19 Before 2021, our total energy consumption graph covered direct energy consumption (Scope 1) and selected indirect energy consumption (Scope 2). In 2021, we added indirect energy consumption of our value chain (Scope 3) to all years shown. ​ 37 Table of Contents In 2014, SAP strengthened the integration of our environmental strategy into our business strategy by creating a “ green cloud ” – running all data centers with 100% renewable electricity. 20 This is one major step towards achieving carbon neutrality and upholding our commitment towards the RE100 initiative. The term “data center” refers to both SAP-owned and external data centers (co-location data centers and hyperscalers). We realize our green cloud by using two strategic levers: On the one hand, by investing in very high-quality, EKOenergy-certified energy attribute certificates (EACs) 21 to foster renewable energy generation; and on the other hand, by producing renewable electricity in selective SAP locations worldwide through solar panels (such as Palo Alto, CA, in the United States, and Bangalore, India). Operating all our facilities and data centers with 100% renewable electricity allows us to compensate our entire electricity consumption-related emissions (2021: 219.5 kt). This is why customers can reduce their carbon emissions (Scope 3) by using our green cloud solutions and services. Sustainable Solutions and Products in Use The vast majority of our overall carbon emissions result from the use of our software. To address this, we have developed a downstream emissions strategy to help our customers, hardware providers, and others run greener operations. One of the most important ways we help our customers reduce their energy usage and emissions is by managing their SAP systems through cloud services provided by our carbon-neutral green cloud offerings. In addition, our SAP Cloud for Sustainable Enterprises offering bundles a broad portfolio of sustainability-related solutions, such as SAP Sustainability Control Tower , SAP Environment , Health , and Safety Management , and SAP Product Footprint Management , which enable our customers to collect, organize, and report financial and non-financial metrics or to manage their greenhouse gas footprint and resources, such as electricity, more efficiently. SAP also works with customers to optimize their on-premise landscapes so that they consume less energy. We achieve this by helping them decommission legacy systems, archive unused data, consolidate business applications, and virtualize their system landscape. In 2021, we started to develop a carbon footprint sizing approach with the aim of enabling our customers to gain transparency on the carbon impact of their SAP applications that run in SAP’s internal and external data centers, answering the question of how much our customers can reduce their environmental footprint by running SAP solutions on SAP’s green cloud compared to a cloud that is not powered by 100% renewable electricity. Corporate Cars and Commuting Consumption of fuel for our company cars remains the single greatest contributor to our direct emissions (Scope 1). To counteract this emission source, SAP released a new commitment in Q4/2021. We aim to enhance our climate protection measures by transitioning our global car fleet to electric or zero-emission 22 vehicles. From 2025 onwards, employees will no longer be able to order vehicles with internal combustion engines (ICEV) or plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEV) as company cars. To ensure a carbon-neutral car fleet reflecting this new commitment, we continue to power all charging stations at SAP locations with 100% renewable electricity. We also continue and strengthen our incentive offers for our employees, for example: - In selected locations, we offer employees a subsidy to install a charging point at home which deploys the new SAP E-Mobility solution to ease billing of the consumed electricity for both car fleet managers and employees. - In Germany, we offer employees a battery subsidy that partially offsets the higher costs of an electric vehicle, and introduced “Charge at Home,” a program to reimburse the employee’s electricity costs for charging at home. - We continuously expand SAP’s global charging infrastructure (2021: >970 charging stations; 2020: >900 charging stations). To generate a shift in alternative commuting habits, we continue to offer a company bike program in Germany, where employees can lease bicycles with the option of purchasing them after three years. In 2021, we expanded the mobility budget pilot to the whole of Germany to foster inter-/multimodal mobility. A pilot group of employees receives a monthly fixed mobility budget at their free disposal to use any mode of transport to commute to work or in their leisure time (bike, e-scooter, rental car, train, bus, and so on). 20 We also run all our SAP office facilities with 100% renewable electricity. 21 We formerly used the term „Renewable Energy Certificates” (RECs) to refer to Energy Attribute Certificates. 22 Zero emission vehicles refer to a vehicle that does not emit exhaust gas or other pollutants from the onboard source of power. ​ 38 Table of Contents Carbon Offsets To offset a share of our Scope 1 and Scope 3 emissions that cannot yet be avoided, we invest in different offset schemes with a strategic focus on nature-based solutions to compensate for these emissions (2021: 17.5 kt): –      A key part of SAP’s carbon offsetting strategy is the long-term investment in the Livelihoods Carbon Funds (LCF). The funds finance much-needed climate action and sustainable development in developing countries through ecosystem restoration, agroforestry, biodiversity preservation, and clean energy projects. This has generated high-quality carbon offsets certified by internationally recognized and demanding standards (such as the Gold Standard) and improved people’s lives. In 2020, SAP committed to invest €3 million in the third LCF and an additional €0.6 million in the first LCF. Due to the strong impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our carbon emissions, we did not require our financial contribution to the LCF to offset our emissions in 2021. Instead, we used an investment in a nature-based forest project to compensate our emissions, the majority of which was were caused by business flights. –      In 2021, SAP made a US$2 million (€1.76 million) 23 commitment to the LEAF (Lowering Emissions by Accelerating Forest finance) Coalition, a public-private initiative seeking to mobilize US$1 billion to protect tropical forests in joint effort with national and subnational governments and local communities. LEAF issues emission reduction credits (ERCs) to its corporate partners that are verified and validated under the ART’s (Architecture for REDD+ Transactions) TREES standard (The REDD+ Environmental Excellence Standard) to ensure high-quality offsets. Due to the ongoing funding process, LEAF does not yet offer carbon offsets. –      In addition to avoiding business flights by investing in virtual collaboration and communication technologies, we charge an internal carbon price for business flights in the majority of countries we travel from, to counterbalance the carbon emissions caused. Since 2016, we invest the collected internal air travel fees in high-quality carbon offsets (such as the Gold Standard) to support climate projects worldwide and compensate the adverse impact of necessary business flights. As a result, this measure has tangibly impacted our progress towards achieving our emission goals. Investments in sustainable projects and the corresponding carbon offsets represent a unit of reduced, avoided, or removed greenhouse gas emissions. Furthermore, SAP joined the 1t.org Corporate Alliance in 2021, which mobilizes business leaders to responsibly conserve, restore, and grow trees worldwide while pursuing 1.5 degrees Celsius science-based target. Restored and protected in the right places, trees and forests are invaluable in maintaining planetary stability, slowing climate change, safeguarding biodiversity, and providing critical ecosystem services to people around the world. Thus, SAP added the goal of planting 21 million trees by the end of 2025 to its comprehensive portfolio of climate measures and carbon-reducing innovations. This will help foster the much-needed transition to a nature-positive and net-zero future. Since 2012, SAP has helped to plant more than 12.2 million trees and is on track to reach its 2025 goal. Related Risks for SAP We have analyzed climate change risks and their potential impact on our largest office buildings, major data centers, and SAP’s workforce. Risk drivers were chosen based on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) reports AR5 and SR15 (that is, rising sea levels, temperature extremes, and tropical storms). The risk assessment was performed in accordance with the SAP Global Risk Management Policy as outlined in the Risk Factors section. As part of our last analysis in 2019, no material risks have been identified potentially impacting our business operations, revenue, or expenditure. Intellectual Property, Proprietary Rights and Licenses We rely on a combination of the protections provided by applicable statutory and common law rights, including trade secret, copyright, patent, and trademark laws, license and non-disclosure agreements, and technical measures to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our products. For further details on risks related to SAP’s intellectual property rights, see “