Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related-Party Transactions – Major Shareholders” for further information. U.S. judgments may be difficult or impossible to enforce against us or our Board members. Currently, except
for Bill McDermott, Robert Enslin, and Steve Singh all members of SAP SE’s Executive Board and all members of the Supervisory Board are non-residents of the United States. A substantial portion of the
assets of SAP and our Board members are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States upon non-U.S. resident persons or SAP or to
enforce against non-U.S. resident persons judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. In addition, awards of punitive damages
in actions brought in the United States or elsewhere might be unenforceable in Germany. Communication and Information Risks Our controls and efforts to prevent the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information might not be effective. Confidential information and internal information related to topics such as our strategy, new technologies, mergers and acquisitions, unpublished financial results, customer data or personal data, could be
prematurely or inadvertently disclosed and subsequently lead to market misperception and volatility. This could require us to notify multiple regulatory agencies and comply with applicable regulatory requirements and, where appropriate, the data
owner, which could result in a loss of reputation for SAP. For example, leaked information during a merger or acquisition deal could cause the loss of our deal target, or our share price could react significantly in case of prematurely published
financial results. This could have an adverse effect on our market position and lead to fines and penalties. In addition, this could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Financial Risks Our sales are subject to quarterly
fluctuations and our sales forecasts might not be accurate. Our revenue and operating results can vary and have varied in the past, sometimes
substantially, from quarter to quarter. Our revenue in general, and our software revenue in particular, is difficult to forecast for a number of reasons, including: – The relatively long sales cycles for our products – The large size, complexity, and extended timing of individual customer transactions – The introduction of licensing and deployment models such as cloud subscription models – The timing of the introduction of new products and services or product and service enhancements by SAP or our competitors – Changes in customer budgets – Decreased software sales that could have an adverse effect on related maintenance and services revenue – The timing, size, and length of customers’ services projects – Deployment models that require the recognition of revenue over an extended period of time – Adoption of, and conversion to, new business models leading to changed or delayed payment terms – Seasonality of a customers’ technology purchases – Limited visibility during the ongoing integration of acquired companies into their ability to accurately predict their sales pipelines and the likelihood that
the projected pipeline will convert favorably into sales 18 Table of Contents – Other general economic, social, environmental, and market conditions, such as a global economic crisis and difficulties for countries with large debt Since many of our customers make their IT purchasing decisions near the end of calendar quarters, and with a significant percentage
of those decisions being made during our fourth quarter, even a small delay in purchasing decisions for our on-premise software could have an adverse effect on our revenue results for a given year. Our
dependence on large transactions has decreased in recent years with a trend towards an increased number of transactions while the average deal size is more or less constant. However, the loss or delay of one or a few large opportunities could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. External factors could impact our liquidity and increase the default risk associated with, and the valuation of, our financial assets. Macroeconomic factors such as an economic downturn could have an adverse effect on our future liquidity. We use a globally centralized financial management to control financial risk, such as liquidity, exchange
rate, interest rate, counterparty, and equity price risks. The primary aim is to maintain liquidity in the SAP Group at a level that is adequate to meet our obligations at any time. Our total Group liquidity is supported by our strong operating cash
flows, of which a large part is recurring, and by credit facilities from which we can draw if necessary. However, adverse macroeconomic factors could increase the default risk associated with the investment of our total Group liquidity including
possible liquidity shortages limiting SAP’s ability to repay financial debt. This could have an impact on the value of our financial assets, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Management use of estimates could negatively affect our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. To comply with IFRS, management is required to make numerous judgments, estimates, and assumptions that affect the reported financial figures. The facts and
circumstances, as well as assumptions on which management bases these estimates and judgments and management’s judgment regarding the facts and circumstances, might change over time and this could result in significant changes in the estimates
and judgments and, consequently, in the reported financials. There is a risk that such changes could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit and cash flows. Current and future accounting pronouncements and other financial reporting standards, especially but not only concerning revenue recognition, might negatively impact our financial results. We regularly monitor our compliance with applicable financial reporting standards and review new pronouncements and drafts thereof that are relevant to us. As a
result of new standards, changes to existing standards (including the new IFRS 15 on revenue from contracts with customers that we will need to adopt in 2018) and changes in their interpretation, we might be required to change our accounting
policies, particularly concerning revenue recognition, to alter our operational policies so that they reflect new or amended financial reporting standards, or to restate our published financial statements. Such changes might have an adverse effect
on our reputation, business, financial position, and profit, or cause an adverse deviation from our revenue and operating profit target. As a
globally operating company, SAP is subject to various financial risks, which could negatively impact our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Because we are operating throughout the world, a significant portion of our business is conducted in foreign currencies. In 2016, approximately 71.6% of our revenue was attributable to operations in foreign
currencies and therefore gets translated into our reporting currency, the euro. Consequently, period-over-period fluctuations can significantly impact our financial results. In general, an appreciation of the euro has an adverse effect while a
depreciation has a positive effect. In addition to exchange rate risks, we are exposed to interest rate and share price fluctuations due to variable interest bearing assets and liabilities and share-based compensation plans for our employees and
executives. The market price for our ADRs and ordinary shares may be volatile. The market prices of our ADRs and ordinary shares have experienced and may continue to experience significant volatility in response to various factors including, but not limited to: – unauthorized or inadvertent premature disclosure of confidential information, including information concerning pending acquisition negotiations or acquisition
rumors; 19 Table of Contents – the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; – technological innovation by us or our competitors; – quarterly variations in our results or our competitors’ results of operations or results that fail to meet market expectations; – changes in revenue and revenue growth rates on a consolidated basis or for specific geographic areas, business units, products or product categories; – changes in our externally communicated outlook; – changes in our capital structure, for example due to the potential future issuance of additional debt instruments; – general market conditions specific to particular industries; – litigation to which we are a party; – general and country specific economic or political conditions (particularly wars, terrorist attacks, etc.); – proposed and completed acquisitions or other significant transactions by us or our competitors; and – general market conditions. Many of these
factors are beyond our control. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to shareholder lawsuits, including securities class action litigation. Any such lawsuits against us, with or
without merit, could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management’s attention and resources, resulting in a decline in our results of operations and our stock price. Project Risks Implementation of SAP software and cloud-based service deliveries often involves a
significant commitment of resources by our customers and is subject to a number of significant risks over which we often have no control. A core
element of our business is the successful implementation of software and service solutions to enable our customers to master complexity and help our customers’ business run at their best. The implementation of SAP software and cloud-based
service deliveries is led by SAP, by partners, by customers, or by a combination thereof. Depending on various factors, such as the complexity of solutions, the customer’s implementation, integration and migration needs, or the resources
required, SAP faces a number of different risks. For example, functional requirement changes, delays in timeline, or deviation from recommended best practices might occur during the course of a project. These scenarios have a direct impact on the
project resource model and on securing adequate internal personnel or consultants in a timely manner and could therefore prove challenging. Other aspects that could potentially affect our projects and deliveries, especially during the transition to the
Cloud are security breaches or unauthorized access to confidential data, operational data center and infrastructure disruptions as well as local legislation with regards to data privacy. As a result of these and other risks, SAP and/or some of our customers have incurred significant implementation costs in connection with the purchase and installation of SAP software products and solutions. Some
customer implementations have taken longer than planned and failed to generate the profit originally expected. We cannot guarantee that we can reduce or eliminate protracted installation or significant third-party consulting costs, for example, that
trained consultants will be readily available, that our costs will not exceed the fees agreed in fixed-price contracts, or that customers will be satisfied with the implementation of our software and solutions. Unsuccessful, lengthy, or costly
customer implementation and integration projects could result in claims from customers, harm SAP’s reputation, and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Additionally, potentially new
contracting models based on subscription models for services, support, and application management might lead to challenges from a financial position perspective including profit and cash flow. Product and Technology Risks Undetected security
vulnerabilities shipped and deployed within our products might cause damage to SAP and our customers, and partners. Customer systems or systems
operated by SAP itself to provide services could potentially be compromised by vulnerabilities if they are exploited by hackers. This could lead to theft, destruction, or abuse of data, or systems could be rendered unusable (for example, due to
distributed denial of service attacks). The detection of security vulnerabilities in our software, our customers’ systems, or SAP systems used in the provision of services, especially in case of exploitation, could prevent us from meeting our
contractual obligations and subsequently might lead to customer claims and reputational damage, which might have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Undetected defects in the introduction of new products, product enhancements and cloud offerings could increase our costs, and reduce customer demand. Our development investment, including new product launches and enhancements, is subject to risks. For example, software products and services might not 20 Table of Contents completely meet our high-quality standards, including security standards; might not fulfill market needs or customer expectations; or might not comply with local standards and requirements.
Furthermore, this risk also exists with respect to acquired companies’ technologies and products where we might not be able to manage these as quickly and successfully as expected. Therefore, market launches, entering new markets, or the
introduction of new innovations could be delayed or not be successful. In addition, new products and cloud offerings, including third-party
technologies we have licensed and open source software components we use in those products, could contain undetected defects or they are detected, or not be mature enough from the customer’s point of view for business-critical solutions after
shipment in spite of all due diligence SAP puts into quality and security. The detection and correction of any defects especially after delivery could be expensive and time-consuming and in some cases we might not be able to meet the expectations of
customers regarding time and quality in the defect resolution process. In some circumstances, we might not be in a position to rectify such defects or entirely meet the expectations of customers, specifically as we are expanding our product
portfolio into additional markets. As a result, we might have to fix defects in our software after shipment (so called security response) or in some cases even face customer claims for cash refunds, damages, replacement software, or other
concessions. The risk of defects and their adverse consequences could increase as we seek to introduce a variety of new software products and product enhancements at a higher innovation rate. This is especially relevant for cloud products as
delivery cycles are even shorter (up to daily deliveries) and our complete cloud product customer base could receive undetected defects simultaneously. Furthermore, for products that use third-party (not SAP) cloud services, we might not always be
able to detect defects in advance. Significant undetected defects or delays in introducing new products or product enhancements could affect market acceptance of SAP software products and could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business,
financial position, profit, and cash flows. The use of existing SAP software products by customers in business-critical solutions and processes and the
relative complexity and technical interdependency of our software products and services create a risk that customers or third parties might pursue warranty, performance, or other claims against us for actual or alleged defects in SAP software
products, in our provision of services, or in our application hosting services. We have in the past been, and might in the future be, subject to warranty, performance, or other similar claims. Although our contracts generally contain provisions designed to limit our exposure due to actual or alleged defects in SAP software products or in our provision of services, these provisions might not cover every
eventuality or be effective under the applicable law. Regardless of its merits, any claim could entail substantial expense and require the devotion of significant time and attention by key management personnel. Publicity surrounding such claims
could affect our reputation and the demand for our software. Changes in our rights to use software, cloud services, and technologies we license from
third parties that are an integral part of SAP’s products and services could slow down time to market and influence our license pricing and therefore the competitiveness with other software vendors. Furthermore, it could diminish our
software’s or cloud functional capabilities and therefore could jeopardize the stability of our solution portfolio offering. The numerous
third-party solutions we have licensed and certain open source software components we use have become an integral part of our product and service portfolio. We depend on those solutions for the functionality of our software and cloud services.
Changes to, or the loss of, third-party licenses as well as open source licenses being construed could significantly increase the cost of these licenses and significantly reduce software or cloud functionality and/or usability or availability of
SAP’s software or cloud offerings. As a result, we might incur additional development or license costs to ensure the continued functionality of our products, experience delays in our ability to offer or have to stop offering our products for
sale, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. This risk increases with each of our acquisitions of a company or a company’s intellectual property assets that had been subject to
third-party solution licensing, open source software and product standards less rigorous than our own. If we are unable to keep up with rapid
technological, process and service innovations, and new business models as well as changing market expectations, we might not be able to compete effectively. Our future success depends upon our ability to keep pace with technological and process innovations and new business models, as well as our ability to develop 21 Table of Contents new products and services, enhance and expand our existing products and services portfolio, and integrate products and services we obtain through acquisitions. To be successful, we are required
to adapt our products and our go-to-market approach to a cloud-based delivery and consumption model to satisfy changing customer demand and to ensure an appropriate
level of adoption, customer satisfaction and retention. We might not be successful in bringing new business models, solutions, solution enhancements,
and/or services to market before our competitors or at equally favorable conditions. We might also face increasing competition from open source software initiatives, or comparable models in which competitors might provide software and intellectual
property free and/or under terms and conditions unfavorable for SAP. In addition, we might not be able to generate enough revenue to offset the significant research and development costs we incur to deliver technological innovations or to offset the
required infrastructure costs to deliver our solutions and services as part of our new business models. Moreover, we might not anticipate and develop technological improvements or succeed in adapting our products, services, processes, and business
models to technological change, changing regulatory requirements, emerging industry standards, and changing requirements of our customers and partners. Finally, we might not succeed in producing high-quality products, enhancements, and releases in a
timely and cost-effective manner to compete with our competitors, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Our technology and/or product strategy might not be successful or our customers and partners might not adopt our technology platforms and other innovations as expected. We might not be successful in integrating our platforms and solutions, enabling the complete product and cloud service portfolio, harmonizing our user interface
design and technology, integrating acquired technologies, or bringing new solutions based on the SAP HANA platform as well as SAP HANA Cloud Platform to the market as fast as expected, in particular, innovative applications such as SAP S/4HANA or
new technologies such as Internet of Things or machine learning. In addition, we might not be able to compete or partner effectively in the area of cloud services and our new applications and services might not meet customer expectations possibly
impacting customer satisfaction and retention. As a result, our partner organizations and customers might not adopt our technology platforms, applications, or cloud services quickly enough or they might consider other competitive solutions in the market. This could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Our cloud offerings and related infrastructure might be subject to a security attack, become unavailable, or fail to perform properly. The software used in our cloud portfolio is inherently complex and any defects in product functionality, data center operations, or system stability that cause
interruptions in the availability of our application portfolio could result in the following: – Lost or delayed market acceptance and sales – Breach of warranty or other contract breach or misrepresentation claims – Sales credits or refunds to our customers or partners – Loss of customers and/or partners – Diversion of development and customer service resources – Breach of data protection and privacy laws and regulations – Customers considering competitive cloud offerings – Loss of customer satisfaction and brand reputation The costs incurred in correcting any defects or errors might be substantial and could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. The availability of our cloud
applications could be interrupted by a number of factors, resulting in customers’ inability to access their cloud applications or receive their service level, system outages or downtimes, failure of our network due to human or other errors,
security breaches, or variability in user traffic for our cloud applications. Because of the large amount of data that we collect and manage, hardware failures, defects in our software, or errors in our systems could result in data loss or
corruption, or cause the information that we collect to be incomplete or contain inaccuracies that our customers regard as significant. Additionally, any loss of the right to use hardware purchased or leased from third parties could result in delays
in our ability to provide our cloud applications until equivalent technology is either developed by us or, if available, identified. Furthermore, our cooperation with partners in the area of cloud includes the co-location of data centers that might expose SAP to additional risks in the area of security and data protection, as well as the potential for breached service-level agreements by partners. We have administrative, technical, and physical security measures in place as well as contracts that require third-party data centers to have appropriate security
and data protection and privacy measures in place. In this context, customers might demand to use only specific and/or local data centers. However, if these security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee 22 Table of Contents error or malfeasance, or otherwise, and if, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to our customers’ data, which might include personally identifiable information regarding users,
our reputation could be damaged, our business might suffer, local data protection and privacy laws or regulations might be breached, and we could incur significant liability. In addition, our insurance coverage might not cover claims against us for loss or security breach of data or other indirect or consequential damages. Moreover, defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be
costly and time-consuming. In addition to potential liability, if we experience interruptions in the availability of our cloud applications, our reputation could be harmed and we could lose customers. Operational Risks Third parties have claimed, and might
claim in the future, that we infringe their intellectual property rights, which could lead to damages being awarded against us and limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. We believe that we will continuously be subject to intellectual property infringement claims as our solution portfolio grows; as we acquire companies with
increased use of third-party code including open source code; as we expand into new industries with our offerings, resulting in greater overlap in the functional scope of offerings; and as non-practicing entities that do not design, manufacture, or distribute products increasingly assert intellectual property infringement claims. Any claims, with or
without merit, and negotiations or litigation relating to such claims, could preclude us from utilizing certain technologies in our products, be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, and require us to pay damages to third parties, stop
selling or reconfigure our products and, under certain circumstances, pay fines and indemnify our customers, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial profile, profit, cash flows, and reputation. They could also require us to
enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on terms that are not favorable to us, cause product shipment delays, subject our products to injunctions, require a complete or partial redesign of products, result in delays to our customers’
investment decisions, and damage our reputation. Software includes many components or modules that provide different features and perform different
functions. Some of these features or functions might be subject to third-party intellectual property rights. The rights of another party could encompass technical aspects that are similar to one or more technologies in one or more of our products. Intellectual property rights of third parties could preclude us from using certain technologies in our products or require us to enter into royalty and licensing
arrangements on unfavorable or expensive terms. The software industry is making increasing use of open source software in its development work on
solutions. We also integrate certain open source software components from third parties into our software. Open source licenses might require that the software code in those components or the software into which they are integrated be freely
accessible under open source terms. Third-party claims might require us to make freely accessible under open source terms one of our products or third-party (not SAP) software upon which we depend. Claims and lawsuits against us could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit, cash flows, and reputation. Claims and lawsuits are brought against us, including claims and lawsuits involving businesses we have acquired. Adverse outcomes to some or all of the claims and
lawsuits pending against us might result in the award of significant damages or injunctive relief against us that could hinder our ability to conduct our business and could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial position,
profit, and cash flows. The outcome of litigation and other claims or lawsuits is intrinsically uncertain. Management’s view of the litigation
might also change in the future. Actual outcomes of litigation and other claims or lawsuits could differ from the assessments made by management in prior periods, which are the basis for our accounting for these litigations and claims under IFRS. We might not acquire and integrate companies effectively or successfully and our strategic alliances might not be successful. To expand our business, we acquire businesses, products, and technologies, and we expect to continue to make acquisitions in the future. Over time certain of these
acquisitions have increased in size and in strategic importance for SAP, Management negotiation of potential acquisitions and alliances and integration of acquired businesses, products, or technologies demands time, focus, and resources of
management and of the workforce. Acquisitions of companies, businesses, and technology expose us to unpredictable operational difficulties, expenditures, and risks. These risks include, among others: – Selection of the wrong integration model for the acquired company and/or technology 23 Table of Contents – Failure to properly evaluate the acquired business and its different business and licensing models – Incorrect assumptions during due diligence process leading to negative contribution with regards to an acquired company – Failure to successfully integrate acquired technologies or solutions into SAP’s solution portfolio and strategy in a timely and profitable manner – Failure to integrate the acquired company’s operations across SAP’s different cultures, languages, and local protocols, all within the constraints of
applicable local laws – Failure to meet the needs of the acquired company’s customers and partners in the combined company – The diversion of management’s time and attention from daily operations – Loss of key personnel of the acquired business – Material unknown liabilities and contingent liabilities of acquired companies, including legal, tax, accounting, intellectual property, or other significant
liabilities that might not be detected through the acquisition due diligence process – Legal and regulatory constraints (such as contract obligations, privacy frameworks, and agreements) – Difficulties in implementing, restoring, or maintaining internal controls, procedures, and policies – Practices or policies of the acquired company that might be incompatible with our compliance requirements – An adverse effect on relationships with existing customers, partners, or third-party providers of technology or products – Difficulties in integrating the acquired company’s accounting, HR, and other administrative systems and coordination of the acquired company’s research
and development (R&D), sales, and marketing functions – Debt incurrence or significant cash expenditures – Constraints in enforcing acquired companies’ compliance with existing SAP security standards in a timely manner – Difficulties in customer implementation projects combining technologies and solutions from both SAP and the acquired company In addition, acquired businesses might not perform as anticipated, resulting in charges for the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets on our
statements of financial position. Such charges might have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. We have entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, alliance arrangements for a variety of purposes,
including the development of new products and services. There can be no assurance that any such products or services will be successfully developed or that we will not incur significant unanticipated liabilities in connection with such arrangements.
We might not be successful in overcoming these risks and we might therefore not benefit as anticipated from acquisitions or alliances. We might not be able to obtain adequate title to, or licenses in, or to enforce, intellectual property. Protecting and defending our intellectual property is crucial to our success. We use a variety of means to identify and monitor potential risks and to protect our
intellectual property. These include applying for patents, registering trademarks and other marks and copyrights, implementing measures to stop copyright and trademark infringement, entering into licensing, confidentiality, and non-disclosure agreements, and deploying protection technology. Despite our efforts, we might not be able to prevent third parties from obtaining, using, or selling without authorization what we regard as our
proprietary technology and information. All of these measures afford only limited protection, and our proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable, or otherwise affected. Some intellectual property might be vulnerable to
disclosure or misappropriation by employees, partners, or other third parties. Third parties might develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Finally, third parties might reverse-engineer or otherwise
obtain and use technology and information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we might not be able to protect our proprietary rights against unauthorized third-party copying or utilization, which could have an adverse effect on our
competitive and financial positions, and result in reduced sales. Any legal action we bring to enforce our proprietary rights could also involve enforcement against a partner or other third party, which might have an adverse effect on our ability,
and our customers’ ability, to use that partner’s or other third parties’ products. In addition, the laws and courts of certain countries might not offer effective means to enforce our intellectual property rights. This could have an
adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. SAP’s business strategy focuses on certain business
models that are highly dependent on a working cyberspace. A cybersecurity breach could have an adverse effect on our customers, our reputation, and our business. The key cybersecurity risks currently applicable to us include state-driven economic espionage as well as competitor-driven industrial espionage, and criminal activities including, but not limited to, cyberattacks
and “mega breaches” against cloud services and hosted on-premise software. This might result in, for example, disclosure of confidential information and intellectual property, defective products,
production downtimes, 24 Table of Contents supply shortages, and compromised data (including personal data). A failure of our cybersecurity measures could impact our compliance with legal demands (for example, Sarbanes-Oxley Act, Payment
Card Industry Data Security Standard, data privacy) and expose our business operations as well as service delivery to the described risks, for example, virtual attack, disruption, damage, and/or unauthorized access. Additionally, we could be subject
to recovery costs, for example, as well as significant contractual and legal claims by customers, partners, authorities, and third-party service providers for damages against us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business,
financial position, profit, and cash flows. We might not be able to protect our critical information and assets or to safeguard our business
operations against disruption. SAP is highly dependent on the exchange of a wide range of information across our global operations and on the
availability of our infrastructure. With regards to our physical environment, we face several key security risks such as industrial and/or economic espionage, serious and organized crime, and other illegal activities, as well as violent extremism
and terrorism. We might be endangered by threats including, but not limited to, social engineering, misuse, or theft of information or assets, or damage to assets by trespassers in our facilities or by people who have gained unauthorized physical
access to our facilities, systems, or information. These could have an adverse effect on our business, financial profile, profit, and cash flows. Our insurance coverage might not be sufficient and we might be subject to uninsured losses. We maintain insurance coverage to protect us against a broad range of risks, at levels we believe are appropriate and consistent with current industry practice. Our objective is to exclude or minimize risk of
financial loss at reasonable cost. However, we might incur losses that might be beyond the limits, or outside the scope, of coverage of our insurance and that might limit or prevent indemnification under our insurance policies. In addition, we might
not be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage on commercially reasonable terms in the future. Further, certain categories of risks are currently not insurable at reasonable cost, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial
position, profit, and cash flows. Finally, there can be no assurance of the financial ability of the insurance companies to meet their claim payment obligations. We could incur significant losses in connection with venture capital investments. Through Sapphire Ventures (formerly SAP Ventures), our consolidated venture investment funds, we plan to continue investing in new and promising technology
businesses. Many such investments initially generate net losses and require additional expenditures from their investors. Changes to planned business operations have, in the past affected, and might in the future affect, the performance of companies
in which Sapphire Ventures holds investments, and that could have an adverse effect on the value of our investments in Sapphire Ventures, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Furthermore,
tax deductibility of capital losses and impairment in connection with equity securities are often restricted and could therefore have an adverse effect on our effective tax rate.