Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related-Party Transactions – Major Shareholders” for further information. U.S. judgments may be difficult or impossible to enforce against us or our Board members. Currently, except for Bill McDermott and Robert Enslin, all members of SAP SE’s Executive Board and all members of the Supervisory Board are non-residents of
the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of SAP and our Board members are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States upon non-U.S. resident persons or
SAP or to enforce against non-U.S. resident persons judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. In addition, awards of punitive damages in actions brought in the
United States or elsewhere might be unenforceable in Germany. Communication and Information Risks Our controls and efforts to prevent the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information might not be effective. Confidential information and internal information related to topics such as our strategy, new technologies, mergers and acquisitions, unpublished financial
results, or personal data, could be prematurely or inadvertently disclosed and subsequently lead to market 17 Table of Contents misperception and volatility. This could require us to notify multiple regulatory agencies and comply with applicable regulatory requirements and, where appropriate, the data owner, which could
result in a loss of reputation for SAP. For example, leaked information during a merger or acquisition deal could cause the loss of our deal target, or our share price could react significantly in case of prematurely published financial results.
This could have an adverse effect on our market position and lead to fines and penalties. In addition, this could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Financial Risks Our sales are subject to quarterly
fluctuations and our sales forecasts may not be accurate. Our revenue and operating results can vary and have varied in the past, sometimes
substantially, from quarter to quarter. Our revenue in general, and our software revenue in particular, is difficult to forecast for a number of reasons, including: – The relatively long sales cycles for our products – The large size, complexity, and extended timing of individual customer transactions – The introduction of licensing and deployment models such as cloud subscription models – The timing of the introduction of new products or product enhancements by SAP or our competitors – Changes in customer budgets – Decreased software sales that could have an adverse effect on related maintenance and services revenue – The timing, size, and length of customers’ services projects – Deployment models that require the recognition of revenue over an extended period of time – Adoption of, and conversion to, new business models leading to changed or delayed payment terms – Seasonality of a customers’ technology purchases – Limited visibility during the ongoing integration of acquired companies into their ability to accurately predict their sales pipelines and the likelihood that
the projected pipeline will convert favorably into sales – Other general economic, social, environmental, and market conditions, such as a global economic crisis and difficulties for countries with large debt Since many of our customers make their IT purchasing decisions near the end of calendar quarters, and with a significant percentage
of those decisions being made during our fourth quarter, even a small delay in purchasing decisions for our on-premise software could have an adverse effect on our revenue results for a given year. Our dependence on large transactions has decreased
in recent years with a trend towards an increased number of transactions coupled with a decrease in deal size. However, the loss or delay of one or a few large opportunities could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. External factors could impact our liquidity and increase the default risk associated with, and the valuation of, our financial assets. Macroeconomic factors such as an economic downturn could have an adverse effect on our future liquidity. We use a globally centralized financial management to control financial risk, such as liquidity, exchange
rate, interest rate, counterparty, and equity price risks. The primary aim is to maintain liquidity in the SAP Group at a level that is adequate to meet our obligations at any time. Our total Group liquidity is supported by our strong operating cash
flows, of which a large part is recurring, and by credit facilities from which we can draw if necessary. However, adverse macroeconomic factors could increase the default risk associated with the investment of our total Group liquidity including
possible liquidity shortages limiting SAP’s ability to repay financial debt. This could have an impact on the value of our financial assets, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Management use of estimates could negatively affect our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. To comply with IFRS, management is required to make numerous judgments, estimates, and assumptions (among others for our major patent disputes) that affect the
reported financial figures. The facts and circumstances, as well as assumptions on which management bases these estimates and judgments and management’s judgment regarding the facts and circumstances, may change from time to time and this could
result in significant changes in the estimates and judgments and, consequently, in the reported financials. Such changes could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit and cash flows. Current and future accounting pronouncements and other financial reporting standards, especially but not only concerning revenue recognition, may negatively
impact our financial results. We regularly monitor our compliance with applicable financial reporting standards and review new pronouncements and
drafts thereof that are relevant to us. As a result of new standards, changes to existing standards (including the new IFRS 15 on revenue from contracts with customers that we will need to adopt in 2018) and changes in their interpretation, we might
be required to change our accounting policies, particularly concerning revenue recognition, to alter our operational policies so that they reflect new or amended financial reporting standards, or to restate our published financial 18 Table of Contents statements. Such changes may have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial position, and profit, or cause an adverse deviation from our revenue and operating profit target. Because we conduct operations throughout the world, our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows may be affected by currency and
interest rate fluctuations. Our Group-wide management reporting and our external financial reporting are both in euros. Nevertheless, a significant
portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the euro. Approximately 74% of our revenue in 2015 was attributable to operations outside the euro area and was translated into euros. Consequently, period-over-period changes in the euro
rates for particular currencies can significantly affect our reported revenues, profits and cash flows. In general, appreciation of the euro relative to another currency has an adverse effect while depreciation of the euro relative to another
currency has a positive effect. Variable interest balance-sheet items are also subject to changes in interest rates. Such changes may have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit and cash flows or cause an adverse deviation
from our revenue and operating profit target. The cost of using derivative instruments to hedge share-based payments may exceed the benefits of
hedging them. We use derivative instruments to reduce the impact of our share-based payments on our income statement and to limit future expense
associated with those plans. Based on a defined hedging strategy, we align the decision of individual hedging transactions with the Group CFO in the Treasury Committee. The expense of hedging the share-based payments could exceed the benefit
achieved by hedging them. On the other hand, a decision to leave the plans materially unhedged could prove disadvantageous. This could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit and cash flows or cause an adverse deviation
from our revenue and operating profit target. The market price for our ADRs and ordinary shares may be volatile. The market prices of our ADRs and ordinary shares have experienced and may continue to experience significant volatility in response to various factors including,
but not limited to: – unauthorized or inadvertent premature disclosure of confidential information, including information concerning pending acquisition negotiations or acquisition
rumors; – the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; – technological innovation by us or our competitors; – quarterly variations in our results or our competitors’ results of operations or results that fail to meet market expectations; – changes in revenue and revenue growth rates on a consolidated basis or for specific geographic areas, business units, products or product categories; – changes in our externally communicated outlook; – changes in our capital structure, for example due to the potential future issuance of additional debt instruments; – general market conditions specific to particular industries; – litigation to which we are a party; – general and country specific economic or political conditions (particularly wars, terrorist attacks, etc.); – proposed and completed acquisitions or other significant transactions by us or our competitors; and – general market conditions. Many of these
factors are beyond our control. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to shareholder lawsuits, including securities class action litigation. Any such lawsuits against us, with or
without merit, could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management’s attention and resources, resulting in a decline in our results of operations and our stock price. Project Risks Implementation of SAP software often involves a significant commitment of resources by our
customers and is subject to a number of significant risks over which we often have no control. A core element of our business is the successful
implementation of software solutions to enable our customers to master complexity and help our customers’ business run at their best. The implementation of SAP software is led by SAP, by partners, by customers, or by a combination thereof.
Depending on various factors, such as the complexity of solutions, the customer’s implementation, integration and migration needs, or the resources required, SAP faces a number of different risks. For example, functional requirement changes,
delays in timeline, or deviation from recommended best practices may occur during the course of a project. These scenarios have a direct impact on the project resource model and on securing adequate internal personnel or consultants in a timely
manner and could therefore prove challenging. As a result of these and other risks, SAP and/or some of our customers have incurred significant
implementation 19 Table of Contents costs in connection with the purchase and installation of SAP software products. Some customer implementations have taken longer than planned. We cannot guarantee that we can reduce or eliminate
protracted installation or significant third-party consulting costs, for example, that trained consultants will be readily available, that our costs will not exceed the fees agreed in fixed-price contracts, or that customers will be satisfied with
the implementation of our software and solutions. Unsuccessful, lengthy, or costly customer implementation and integration projects could result in claims from customers, harm SAP’s reputation, and could have an adverse effect on our business,
financial position, profit, and cash flows. Product and Technology Risks Undetected security vulnerabilities shipped and deployed within our products might cause damage to SAP and our customers, and partners. Customer systems or systems operated by SAP itself to provide services could potentially be compromised by vulnerabilities if they are exploited by hackers. This could lead to theft, destruction, or abuse of data,
or systems could be rendered unusable (for example, due to distributed denial of service attacks). The detection of security vulnerabilities in our software, our customers’ systems, or SAP systems used in the provision of services, especially
in case of exploitation, could prevent us from meeting our contractual obligations and subsequently might lead to customer claims and reputational damage, which might have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit, and cash
flows. Undetected defects in the introduction of new products and product enhancements could increase our costs, and reduce customer demand. Our development investment, including new product launches and enhancements, is subject to risks. For example, software products and services might
not completely meet our high-quality standards, including security standards; might not fulfill market needs or customer expectations; or might not comply with local standards and requirements. Furthermore, this risk also exists with respect to
acquired companies’ technologies and products where we might not be able to manage these as quickly and successfully as expected. Therefore, market launches, entering new markets, or the introduction of new innovations could be delayed or not
be successful. In addition, new products and cloud offerings, including third-party technologies we have licensed and open source
software components we use in those products, could contain undetected defects or they might not be mature enough from the customer’s point of view for business-critical solutions. The detection and correction of any defects especially after
delivery could be expensive and time-consuming and we might not be able to meet the expectations of customers regarding time and quality in the defect resolution process. In some circumstances, we might not be in a position to rectify such defects
or entirely meet the expectations of customers, specifically as we are expanding our product portfolio into additional markets. As a result, we might be faced with customer claims for cash refunds, damages, replacement software, or other
concessions. The risk of defects and their adverse consequences could increase as we seek to introduce a variety of new software products and product enhancements at a higher innovation rate. This is especially relevant for cloud products as
delivery cycles are even shorter (up to daily deliveries) and our complete cloud product customer base could receive undetected defects simultaneously. Furthermore, for products that use third-party (not SAP) cloud services, we cannot detect defects
in advance. Significant undetected defects or delays in introducing new products or product enhancements could affect market acceptance of SAP software products and could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial position,
profit, and cash flows. The use of existing SAP software products by customers in business-critical solutions and processes and the relative complexity
and technical interdependency of our software products and services create a risk that customers or third parties may pursue warranty, performance, or other claims against us for actual or alleged defects in SAP software products, in our provision
of services, or in our application hosting services. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, subject to warranty, performance, or other similar claims. Although our contracts generally contain provisions designed to limit our exposure due to actual or alleged defects in SAP software products or in our provision of services, these provisions may not cover every
eventuality or be effective under the applicable law. Regardless of its merits, any claim could entail substantial expense and require the devotion of significant time and attention by key management personnel. Publicity surrounding such claims
could affect our reputation and the demand for our software. 20 Table of Contents Changes in our rights to use software, cloud services, and technologies we license from third parties that are an
integral part of SAP’s products could slow down time to market and influence our license pricing and therefore the competitiveness with other software vendors. Furthermore, it could diminish our software’s or cloud functional capabilities
and therefore could jeopardize the stability of our solution portfolio offering. The numerous third-party solutions we have licensed and certain
open source software components we use have become an integral part of our product and service portfolio. We depend on those solutions for the functionality of our software and cloud services. Changes to, or the loss of, third-party licenses as well
as open source licenses being construed could significantly increase the cost of these licenses and significantly reduce software or cloud functionality and/or usability of SAP’s software or cloud offerings. As a result, we might incur
additional development or license costs to ensure the continued functionality of our products, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. This risk increases with each of our acquisitions of a
company or a company’s intellectual property assets that had been subject to third-party solution licensing, open source software and product standards less rigorous than our own. If we are unable to keep up with rapid technological, process and service innovations, and new business models as well as changing market expectations, we might not be able to compete effectively. Our future success depends upon our ability to keep pace with technological and process innovations and new business models, as well as our ability
to develop new products and services, enhance and expand our existing products and services portfolio, and integrate products and services we obtain through acquisitions. To be successful, we are required to adapt our products and our go-to-market
approach to a cloud-based delivery model to satisfy changing customer demand. We might not be successful in bringing new business models, solutions,
solution enhancements, and/or services to market before our competitors. We may also face increasing competition from open source software initiatives in which competitors may provide software and intellectual property free and/or under terms and
conditions unfavorable for SAP. In addition, we might not be able to generate enough revenue to offset the significant research and development costs we incur to deliver technological innovations or to offset the required infrastructure costs to
deliver our solutions and services as part of our new business models. Moreover, we might not anticipate and develop technological improvements or succeed in adapting our products, services, processes, and business models to technological change, changing regulatory requirements, emerging industry standards, and changing requirements of our customers and partners. Finally, we might not succeed in producing high-quality products,
enhancements, and releases in a timely and cost-effective manner to compete with products, solutions, and other technologies offered by our competitors, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial position, profit, and
cash flows. Our technology and/or product strategy may not be successful or our customers and partners might not adopt our technology platforms and
other innovations accordingly. We offer customers a broad portfolio of products, solutions, and services. Our technology strategy centers on SAP
HANA as a real-time in-memory computing platform for analytics and applications, the SAP S/4HANA suite as the digital core, the business network, and SAP HANA Cloud Platform as our platform-as-a-service offering. The success of our technology
strategy depends on the delivery of the new digital framework, as our technology continues to deliver business value to meet changing customer expectations. Our technology strategy also relies on our ability to maintain a dynamic network of partner
organizations developing their own business applications using our technology platforms. We might not be successful in integrating our platforms,
enabling the complete product and cloud service portfolio, harmonizing our user interface design and technology, integrating acquired technologies, or bringing new solutions based on the SAP HANA platform as well as SAP HANA Cloud Platform to the
market as fast as expected, in particular, innovative applications such as SAP S/4HANA. In addition, we may not be able to compete effectively in the area of cloud services and our new applications and services might not meet customer expectations.
As a result, our partner organizations and customers might not adopt our technology platforms, applications, or cloud services quickly enough or they might consider competitive solutions. This could have an adverse effect on our reputation,
business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Our cloud offerings might be subject to a security attack, become unavailable, or fail to
perform properly. The software used in our cloud portfolio is inherently complex and any defects in product functionality, data center operations,
or system stability that cause interruptions in the availability of our application portfolio could result in the following: – Lost or delayed market acceptance and sales – Breach of warranty or other contract breach or misrepresentation claims 21 Table of Contents – Sales credits or refunds to our customers or partners – Loss of customers and/or partners – Diversion of development and customer service resources – Breach of data protection and privacy laws and regulations – Customers considering competitive cloud offerings – Loss of customer satisfaction and brand reputation The costs incurred in correcting any defects or errors might be substantial and could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. The availability of our cloud
applications could be interrupted by a number of factors, resulting in customers’ inability to access their cloud applications, system outages, failure of our network due to human or other errors, security breaches, or variability in user
traffic for our cloud applications. Because of the large amount of data that we collect and manage, hardware failures, defects in our software, or errors in our systems could result in data loss or corruption, or cause the information that we
collect to be incomplete or contain inaccuracies that our customers regard as significant. Additionally, any loss of the right to use hardware purchased or leased from third parties could result in delays in our ability to provide our cloud
applications until equivalent technology is either developed by us or, if available, identified. Furthermore, our cooperation with partners in the area of cloud includes the co-location of data centers that might expose SAP to additional risks in
the area of security and data protection, as well as the potential for breached service-level agreements by partners. We have administrative,
technical, and physical security measures in place as well as contracts that require third-party data centers to have appropriate security and data protection and privacy measures in place. In this context, customers might demand to use only
specific and/or local data centers. However, if these security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error or malfeasance, or otherwise, and if, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to our customers’
data, which may include personally identifiable information regarding users, our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer, local data protection and privacy laws or regulations might be breached, and we could incur significant liability. In addition, our insurance coverage might not cover claims against us for loss or security breach of data or other indirect or consequential damages.
Moreover, defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and time-consuming. In addition to potential liability, if we experience interruptions in the availability of our cloud applications, our reputation could be harmed and we could
lose customers. Operational Risks Third parties have claimed, and might claim in the future, that we infringe their intellectual property rights, which could lead to damages being awarded against us and limit our ability to use certain
technologies in the future. We believe that we will increasingly be subject to intellectual property infringement claims as our solution portfolio
grows; as we acquire companies with increased use of third-party code including open source code; as we expand into new industries with our offerings, resulting in greater overlap in the functional scope of offerings; and as non-practicing entities
that do not design, manufacture, or distribute products increasingly assert intellectual property infringement claims. Any claims, with or without
merit, and negotiations or litigation relating to such claims, could preclude us from utilizing certain technologies in our products, be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, and require us to pay damages to third parties, stop selling or
reconfigure our products and, under certain circumstances, pay fines and indemnify our customers, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial profile, profit, cash flows, and reputation. They could also require us to enter into
royalty and licensing arrangements on terms that are not favorable to us, cause product shipment delays, subject our products to injunctions, require a complete or partial redesign of products, result in delays to our customers’ investment
decisions, and damage our reputation. Software includes many components or modules that provide different features and perform different functions.
Some of these features or functions may be subject to third-party intellectual property rights. The rights of another party could encompass technical aspects that are similar to one or more technologies in one or more of our products. Intellectual
property rights of third parties could preclude us from using certain technologies in our products or require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on unfavorable or expensive terms. The software industry is making increasing use of open source software in its development work on solutions. We also integrate certain open source software
components from third parties into our software. Open source licenses may require that the software code in those components or the software into which they are integrated be freely accessible under open source terms. Third-party claims may require
us to make freely accessible under open source terms one of our products or third-party (not SAP) software upon which we depend. 22 Table of Contents Claims and lawsuits against us could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit, cash
flows, and reputation. Claims and lawsuits are brought against us, including claims and lawsuits involving businesses we have acquired. Adverse
outcomes to some or all of the claims and lawsuits pending against us might result in the award of significant damages or injunctive relief against us that could hinder our ability to conduct our business and could have an adverse effect on our
reputation, business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. The outcome of litigation and other claims or lawsuits is intrinsically uncertain.
Management’s view of the litigation may also change in the future. Actual outcomes of litigation and other claims or lawsuits could differ from the assessments made by management in prior periods, which are the basis for our accounting for
these litigations and claims under IFRS. We might not acquire and integrate companies effectively or successfully and our strategic alliances might
not be successful. To expand our business, we acquire businesses, products, and technologies, and we expect to continue to make acquisitions in the
future. Over time certain of these acquisitions have increased in size and in strategic importance for SAP, Management negotiation of potential acquisitions and alliances and integration of acquired businesses, products, or technologies demands
time, focus, and resources of management and of the workforce. Acquisitions of companies, businesses, and technology expose us to unpredictable operational difficulties, expenditures, and risks. These risks include, among others: – Selection of the wrong integration model for the acquired company and/or technology – Failure to properly evaluate the acquired business and its different business and licensing models – Failure to successfully integrate acquired technologies or solutions into SAP’s solution portfolio and strategy in a timely and profitable manner – Failure to integrate the acquired company’s operations across SAP’s different cultures, languages, and local protocols, all within the constraints of
applicable local laws – Failure to meet the needs of the acquired company’s customers and partners in the combined company – The diversion of management’s time and attention from daily operations – Loss of key personnel of the acquired business – Material unknown liabilities and contingent liabilities of acquired companies, including legal, tax, accounting, intellectual property, or other significant
liabilities that may not be detected through the acquisition due diligence process – Legal and regulatory constraints (such as contract obligations, privacy frameworks, and agreements) – Difficulties in implementing, restoring, or maintaining internal controls, procedures, and policies – Practices or policies of the acquired company that may be incompatible with our compliance requirements – An adverse effect on relationships with existing customers, partners, or third-party providers of technology or products – Difficulties in integrating the acquired company’s accounting, HR, and other administrative systems and coordination of the acquired company’s research
and development (R&D), sales, and marketing functions – Debt incurrence or significant cash expenditures – Constraints in enforcing acquired companies’ compliance with existing SAP security standards in a timely manner – Difficulties in customer implementation projects combining technologies and solutions from both SAP and the acquired company In addition, acquired businesses might not perform as anticipated, resulting in charges for the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets on our
statements of financial position. Such charges may have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. We have entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, alliance arrangements for a variety of purposes,
including the development of new products and services. There can be no assurance that any such products or services will be successfully developed or that we will not incur significant unanticipated liabilities in connection with such arrangements.
We may not be successful in overcoming these risks and we may therefore not benefit as anticipated from acquisitions or alliances. We may not be
able to obtain adequate title to, or licenses in, or to enforce, intellectual property. Protecting and defending our intellectual property is
crucial to our success. We use a variety of means to identify and monitor potential risks and to protect our intellectual property. These include applying for patents, registering trademarks and other marks and copyrights, implementing measures to
stop copyright and trademark infringement, entering into licensing, confidentiality, and non-disclosure agreements, and deploying protection technology. Despite our efforts, we might not be able to prevent third parties from obtaining, using, or
selling without authorization what we regard as our proprietary technology and information. All of these measures afford only limited protection, and our proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable, or otherwise affected.
Some intellectual property might be vulnerable to disclosure or 23 Table of Contents misappropriation by employees, partners, or other third parties. Third parties might independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Finally,
third parties might reverse-engineer or otherwise obtain and use technology and information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we might not be able to protect our proprietary rights against unauthorized third-party copying or utilization,
which could have an adverse effect on our competitive and financial positions, and result in reduced sales. Any legal action we bring to enforce our proprietary rights could also involve enforcement against a partner or other third party, which may
have an adverse effect on our ability, and our customers’ ability, to use that partner’s or other third parties’ products. In addition, the laws and courts of certain countries may not offer effective means to enforce our intellectual
property rights. This could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. SAP’s business
strategy focuses on certain business models that are highly dependent on a working cyberspace. A cybersecurity breach could have an adverse effect on our customers, our reputation, and our business. The key cybersecurity risks currently applicable to us include state-driven economic espionage as well as competitor-driven industrial espionage, and criminal
activities including, but not limited to, cyberattacks and “mega breaches” against cloud services and hosted on-premise software. This might result in, for example, disclosure of confidential information and intellectual property,
defective products, production downtimes, supply shortages, and compromised data (including personal data). A failure of our cybersecurity measures could impact our compliance with legal demands (for example, Sarbanes-Oxley Act, Payment Card
Industry Data Security Standard, data privacy) and expose our business operations as well as service delivery to the described risks, for example, virtual attack, disruption, damage, and/or unauthorized access. Additionally, we could be subject to
recovery costs, for example, as well as significant contractual and legal claims by customers, partners, authorities, and third-party service providers for damages against us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial
position, profit, and cash flows. We may not be able to protect our critical information and assets or to safeguard our business operations against
disruption. SAP is highly dependent on the exchange of a wide range of information across our global operations and on the availability of our
infrastructure. With regards to our physical environment, we face several key security risks such as industrial and/or economic espionage, serious and organized crime, and other illegal activities, as well as violent extremism and terrorism. We might be endangered by threats including, but not limited to, social engineering, misuse, or
theft of information or assets, or damage to assets by trespassers in our facilities or by people who have gained unauthorized physical access to our facilities, systems, or information. These could have an adverse effect on our business, financial
profile, profit, and cash flows. Our insurance coverage might not be sufficient and we might be subject to uninsured losses. We maintain insurance coverage to protect us against a broad range of risks, at levels we believe are appropriate and consistent with current industry practice.
Our objective is to exclude or minimize risk of financial loss at reasonable cost. However, we may incur losses that may be beyond the limits, or outside the scope, of coverage of our insurance and that may limit or prevent indemnification under our
insurance policies. In addition, we might not be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage on commercially reasonable terms in the future. Further, certain categories of risks are currently not insurable at reasonable cost, which could have an
adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Finally, there can be no assurance of the financial ability of the insurance companies to meet their claim payment obligations. We could incur significant losses in connection with venture capital investments. Through Sapphire Ventures (formerly SAP Ventures), our consolidated venture investment funds, we plan to continue investing in new and promising technology businesses. Many such investments initially generate net
losses and require additional expenditures from their investors. Changes to planned business operations have, in the past affected, and may in the future affect, the performance of companies in which Sapphire Ventures holds investments, and that
could have an adverse effect on the value of our investments in Sapphire Ventures, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. Furthermore, tax deductibility of capital losses and impairment in
connection with equity securities are often restricted and could therefore have an adverse effect on our effective tax rate.