Q4 2014 Earnings Call

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Intuitive Surgical Q4 2014
Earnings Release Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct
a question-and-answer session. Instructions will be given at that time. As a reminder, today's
conference call will be recorded.
And now, I'd like to turn the conference over to our first speaker, Senior Director of Finance with
Intuitive Surgical, Mr. Calvin Darling. Please go ahead, sir.
Calvin Darling `
Thank you. Good afternoon, and welcome to Intuitive Surgical's fourth quarter earnings
conference call. With me today we have Gary Guthart, our President and CEO; Marshall Mohr, our
Chief Financial Officer; and Patrick Clingan, Director of Finance.
Before we begin, I would like to inform you that comments mentioned on today's call may be
deemed to contain forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those
expressed or implied as a result of certain risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties
are described in detail in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings including our
most recent Form 10-K, filed on February 3, 2014, and our Form 10-Q, filed October 23, 2014.
These filings can be found through our website or at the SEC's EDGAR database. Prospective
investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
Please note that this conference call will be available for audio replay on our website at
intuitivesurgical.com on the Audio Archives section under our Investor Relations page. In addition,
today's press release and supplementary financial data tables have been posted to our website.
Today's format will consist of providing you with highlights of our fourth quarter results, as
described in our press release announced earlier today, followed by a question-and-answer
session. Gary will present the quarter's business and operational highlights. Marshall will provide athen I will provide our financial outlook for 2015. And finally, we will host a question-and-answer
session.
With that, I will turn it over to Gary.
Gary S. Guthart `
Thank you for joining us on the call today. 2014 has been a year of transition for Intuitive with
macroeconomic uncertainty at the start of the year giving way to improving performance as the
year progressed. At the outset, we focused on driving adoption of our platform in general
surgery, in launching key new products and in increasing our organizational capability and
performance in international markets, particularly Europe and Japan. The organization has
responded well in the year with solid procedure performance and a strong launch of our newest
generation da Vinci platform. General surgery and international procedures have become the
growth engine for the business.
Starting with a review of procedures, year-over-year growth was approximately 9%, led by
growth in general surgery, growth in the use of da Vinci outside of the United States, and the
strength in urology, offset by flat annual performance in gynecology. General surgery growth was
approximately 33% for the year, comprised of strong growth in da Vinci colorectal surgery, hernia
repair, and in other general surgery procedures, offset by slowing da Vinci Single-Site use in
cholecystectomy. While Single-Site Cholecystectomy procedures were up in 2014, they were
down in the fourth quarter.
Outside of the United States, procedure growth remained robust, rising approximately 20% over
procedures in 2013 based on strength in Europe and Asia. Patrick will review procedure trends in
greater detail later in the call.
Looking at trends in capital sales for the year, capital placements increased in sequential quarters,
helped by the launch of da Vinci Xi in the second quarter of 2014. Outside of the United States,
our capital business was solid with international system strength in Europe and Asia outside of
Japan. System sales weakened in Japan over 2013 as customers wait for both Xi clearance and
additional reimbursement. Sales elsewhere, particularly China grew over 2013.
Our product launches were significant in 2014. In the second quarter, we launched our fourth
generation platform, the da Vinci Xi Surgical System. We launched Xi in the United States in April
followed by CE mark in June, availability in France, Austria, and Switzerland in October and Korea
in December. The Xi System enhances our prior generation systems by improving multi-quadrant
access to the body, introducing the ability to move the endoscope between robotic arms,
increasing range of motion and reach with slimmer arms and enhancing ease-of-use and set up.
Customer reception of the Xi has been strong with interest and use by multiple specialties,
including colorectal surgeons, urologists, thoracic surgeons and gynecologic oncologists.
Our systems are optimized for different procedures by dozens of instruments and accessories. In
2014, we added to the initial set of instruments and accessories available for the Xi at launch by
introducing the Xi Vessel Sealer in Q2, Xi Firefly in Q3, and Xi Stapler in Q1 of 2015. In 2015, we
plan to submit a 510(k) for software that allows for coordinated table motion with the Xi and a
510(k) for an Xi-compatible version of our single-site instruments. This filling out of the Xi product
suite will increase the applicability of the platform to institutions interested in owning a single da
Vinci system.
Turning to instruments, we launched our Wristed Needle Driver instrument for use with single-site
surgery in Q4 of 2014. Surgeons performing single incision hysterectomy with da Vinci Single-Siteare particularly interested in the Wristed Needle Driver and initial uptake has been strong. Single-
site hysterectomy with Wristed Needle Driver is still in its early days and projecting its long-term
impact on the hysterectomy market is premature.
In the fourth quarter of 2014, we issued a field action for our da Vinci Si Stapler after we observed
three inter-operative instrument failures. In each case, these procedures were completed
successfully minimally invasively. Our team has identified the root causes of failure and has re-
qualified the Stapler. As of this first quarter of 2015, the Si EndoWrist Stapler is back in production,
and first cases have been completed. Our Xi Stapler was also launched in the quarter with first
cases completed this month.
Looking back at the full year 2014, our operating performance was as follows: worldwide
procedures grew approximately 9%. We shipped 431 surgical systems in the year, down from 546
in 2013. Total revenue was $2.1 billion, down 6% from 2013. Recurring revenue grew to $1.57
billion, up 5% and comprising 70% of total revenue. We generated $819 million in operating profit
before non-cash stock option expense, down 21% from last year. Pro forma net income was $607
million, down 24% from 2013, and we reduced our shares outstanding by repurchasing 2.5 million
shares at an average price of $398 per share during 2014.
Turning to our operating performance in the fourth quarter, procedures grew approximately 10%
over the fourth quarter of last year. We sold 137 da Vinci Surgical Systems, down from 138 in the
fourth quarter of 2013. Total revenue for the quarter was $605 million, up 5% from prior year.
Instrument and accessory revenue increased to $281 million, up 5%. We generated an operating
profit of $237 million in the quarter before non-cash stock compensation expense, down 8% from
the fourth quarter of last year, and pro forma net income was $184 million, down 5% from Q4 of
2013.
In 2014, we made significant investments in our organization, including growing our direct
commercial organization in Japan. We anticipate growing our organization in specific areas
through 2015 with particular emphasis on Asia, Europe, and in operations.
Looking to 2015, our priorities are as follows. First, we will focus on the expanded use of da Vinci
in general surgery, particularly colorectal surgery and hernia repair. Second, we'll work to
complete our launch in new product introductions of da Vinci Xi in key markets globally. Third,
we'll develop our organizational capabilities and markets in Europe and Asia, and finally, we plan
to build Xi compatible da Vinci Sp prototypes and initiate customer evaluations.
I will now turn the call over to Marshall who will take you through our financial highlights.
Marshall L. Mohr `
Thank you, Gary. Our first quarter 2014 revenue in procedures were consistent with our press
release issued on January 13. Fourth quarter revenues were $605 million, up 5% compared with
$576 million for the fourth quarter 2013, and up 10% from last quarter. Procedures for the fourth
quarter grew approximately 10% compared with the fourth quarter of 2013, and approximately
9% compared with last quarter.
I will be describing our results on a non-GAAP or pro forma basis, which excludes the impact of
our Xi trade-in programs, legal claim accruals, stock-based compensation, amortization of
purchased IP, and investment impairments. We are providing pro forma information because we
believe that business trends and operating results are easier to understand on a pro forma basis.
I will also summarize our GAAP results later in my script. We have posted reconciliations of our pro
forma results to our GAAP results on our website so that there is no confusion.Procedure highlights will be covered by Patrick. Revenue highlights are as follows. Pro forma
instrument and accessory revenue grew 4% compared with the fourth quarter of 2013 and 3%
compared with the third quarter of 2014. The increases relative to prior quarters reflect
procedure growth partially offset by customer buying patterns and the impact of the field action
for our da Vinci Si Stapler. We have resolved the issue underlying the Stapler and began shipping
it again early in the first quarter of 2015. We also began shipment of our Xi Stapler early this
quarter. Instrument and accessory revenue realized per procedure, including initial stocking
orders, was approximately $1,830 per procedure compared with $1,930 for both the fourth
quarter of 2013 and last quarter. The decrease from the prior year as well as the prior quarter
reflects the timing of customer orders and the field action for our da Vinci Si Stapler.
Pro forma system revenue of $211 million increased 3% compared with the fourth quarter of 2013,
and increased 37% compared with the third quarter of 2014. The increase in systems revenue
compared with the third quarter primarily reflects higher systems sales in Europe and the U.S. 137
systems were placed in the third quarter, excluding two Xis traded for Sis under our trade-out
program, compared with 138 systems in the fourth quarter of 2013 and 111 systems last quarter.
97 of the systems placed in the fourth quarter were Xis, compared with 59 in the third quarter
and 50 in the second quarter.
Globally, our system ASP of $1,550,000 increased relative to the ASP for the fourth quarter of last
year of $1,460,000 and relative to the last quarter of $1,450,000. The increase in ASPs relative to
last year reflects product mix, where the current quarter included a high mix of Xis and the fourth
quarter of 2013 included a high mix of the Si-es. The increase in ASPs relative to the last quarter,
reflect a higher proportion of Xi systems, a higher proportion of dual console systems and a
positive geographic mix.
Hospitals financed approximately 15% of the systems placed in the fourth quarter, down from
27% last quarter. We directly financed 12 systems, of which five were structured as operating
leases. Through the fourth quarter of 2014, we have entered into 14 operating leases. In the U.S.,
we placed 71 systems in the fourth quarter, compared with 72 systems in the fourth quarter of
2013 and 61 systems in the third quarter of 2014. Outside the U.S., we sold 66 systems in the
fourth quarter, compared with 66 in the fourth quarter of 2013 and 48 systems last quarter.
Year-over-year system placements reflect growth in Europe, 39 systems this quarter compared
with 28 systems last year, and a reduction in Japan systems, six systems this quarter compared
with 21 systems last year. Quarter-over-quarter system placement growth reflects higher system
placements in Europe and other world markets. Fourth quarter system sales included nine into
Italy, seven into Turkey, and five into the Nordic countries.
International revenue results were as follows: fourth quarter pro forma revenue outside the U.S.
was $197 million, or approximately the same as the fourth quarter of 2013 revenue of $195 million,
and up 29% compared with $153 million last quarter. Our higher sequential international revenue
was driven by increased procedures and higher system sales in a seasonally stronger quarter.
Fourth quarter 2014 OUS procedure volume was approximately 21% higher than the fourth
quarter of 2013 and 14% higher than the third quarter of this year. Procedure volume growth was
led by dVP but also reflected strong growth in GYN and general surgery.
Moving on to the remainder of the P&L, pro forma gross margin in the fourth quarter of 2014 was
67.1% compared with 70.7% for the fourth quarter of 2013 and 67.2% for the third quarter of 2014.
Our lower margin percentage relative to prior quarters primarily reflects a high mix of Xi Systems.
In the first quarter, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $67 million to reflect the estimated costs of
settling a number of product liability legal claims against the company. During the second quarterand the fourth quarter, we recorded additional charges of $10 million and $5 million, reflecting
additional claims.
These claims relate to the alleged complications from surgeries performed with certain versions
of monopolar cautery scissor, or MCS instruments that included an MCS tip cover accessory that
was the subject of a market withdrawal in 2012, in surgeries that were performed with MCS
instruments that were the subject of a recall in 2013. Our estimate of the anticipated cost of
settling these claims is based on negotiations with attorneys for patients who have participated in
the mediation process that the company established in conjunction with a tolling agreement. We
will continue to refine our estimates as we proceed through the negotiation process.
Pro forma operating expenses, which exclude the reserves for legal claims, stock compensation
expense, and amortization of purchased IP, were up 9% compared with the fourth quarter of
2013 and were up 2% compared with last quarter. Our fourth quarter 2014 pro forma operating
expense compared to the fourth quarter of 2013 reflects head count additions and higher
incentive compensation. The increase compared to last quarter was driven by higher incentive
compensation and severance costs.
Our pro forma effective tax rate for the fourth quarter was 23.5% compared with 25.8% for the
fourth quarter of 2013 and 27.2% last quarter. The pro forma effective tax rate for 2014 benefited
from the release of reserves specific to tax years where we have completed our IRS audit or
jurisdictions where the statute of limitations have now expired. In addition, the fourth quarter of
2014 rate benefited from the reinstatement of the federal research and development credit. We
anticipate our pro forma effective rate for 2015 will reflect a more normal range of 28% to 30%.
Our tax rate will fluctuate with changes in mix of U.S. and OUS income and will not reflect a
federal research and development credit unless such credit is reinstated.
Our pro forma net income was $184 million, or $4.92 per share, compared with $193 million, or
$4.98 per share, for the fourth quarter of 2013 and $145 million, or $3.91 per share, for the third
quarter of 2014. Excluding one-time tax benefits, our fourth quarter 2014 pro forma net income
would've been $159 million, or $4.25 per share. As I indicated earlier, pro forma income provides
an easier comparison of our financial results and business trends.
I will now summarize our GAAP results. GAAP revenue was $605 million for the fourth quarter of
2014 compared with $576 million for the fourth quarter of 2013 and $550 million for the third
quarter of 2014. GAAP net income was $147 million, or $3.94 per share for the fourth quarter of
2014 compared with $166 million, or $4.28 per share, for the fourth quarter of 2013 and $124
million, or $3.35 per share, for the third quarter of 2014. We ended the quarter with cash and
investments of $2.5 billion, up from $2.3 billion as of September 30, 2014. The increase was
primarily driven by cash generated from operations. During the year, we repurchased 2.5 million
shares for $1 billion at an average purchase price of $398 per share.
And with that, I'd like to turn it over to Patrick, who will go over our sales, marketing and clinical
highlights.
Patrick Clingan `
Thanks, Marshall. As mentioned earlier, our total Q4 year-over-year procedures grew
approximately 10%, with U.S. procedures growing approximately 8% and international procedures
growing approximately 21%. In U.S. urology, the uptick in dVP procedures experienced in Q3
continued in Q4. Given our high rate of penetration in the U.S. prostatectomy market, our dVP
volumes are likely to track overall U.S. prostatectomy volumes. Coupled with continued growth inIn U.S. gynecology, Q4 results were similar to prior quarters in 2014, with low single-digit
procedure declines. dVHb volumes appear consistent with the expected total market, benign
hysterectomy procedure declines, partially offset by growth in cancer procedures. Single-site
hysterectomy continued to display rapid early growth off a small base.
Moving on to U.S. general surgery, adoption continues to be solid across a broad number of
procedures. Colorectal and hernia adoption remains a source of strength, while
cholecystectomies declined modestly in the quarter. Over the course of 2014, we have seen a
shift in focus from cholecystectomy to hernia repair by our general surgeons and sales force.
Despite the decline in cholecystectomies this quarter, we continue to hear positive feedback
from segments of the patient and surgeon populations that see value in the single-incision
approach of our Single-Site technology or the real-time imaging of the biliary anatomy with our
Firefly technology among advantages associated with robotic surgery.
Looking more deeply at hernia repair, we are encouraged by robust procedure growth coupled
with positive feedback about the clinical outcomes being generated with da Vinci Surgery during
these early stages of adoption. However, hernia repair is a broad term, and the benefits
associated with robotic and minimally invasive surgery varies across patient subsets. Provincial
hernias, surgeon feedback around the ease of suturing and enhanced vision associated with
robotic surgery enables a minimally invasive closure of the primary defect that is similar to open
surgery.
Relative to laparoscopy, da Vinci surgeons have commented on increased intra-abdominal
surgical dexterity for dissection and suturing, less post-operative pain, and similar or lower
material operating costs. For inguinal hernia, discussions continue among surgeons about the role
of minimally invasive surgery for some procedures. However, da Vinci surgeons have reported to
us that for certain inguinal hernias, there are advantages in trans-abdominal defect closure and
reduction in postoperative pain. Defining the subsets of hernia repair where robotic surgery is
expected to thrive is difficult, particularly in these early days, but we are encouraged by our
physician commentaries.
Looking abroad, international Q4 procedure growth of approximately 21% continued to be led by
global adoption of dVP and other urologic procedures, with solid early contributions from
gynecology and general surgery. In Japan, we've seen continued adoption of dVP. Clinical trials to
support our reimbursement submissions for partial nephrectomy and gastrectomy have begun
enrollment, and we continue discussions with key opinion-leading surgeons and surgical society
leadership on other procedures of interest. Recently, a population-based study of the first year of
dVP adoption in Japan was completed by researchers from the University of Tokyo and the
Cleveland Clinic that included more than 10,000 patients.
Published in cancer science, the study found that dVP, despite being within the first year of broad
adoption, was associated with a lower complication rate, lower transfusion rate, shorter
hospitalization, longer anesthesia time, and higher cost compared to open surgery and minimally
invasive alternatives. There is little detail around how costs were calculated in this study, though
they appear correlated to anesthesia time. We know from prior studies that with experience,
both cost and operating room time decline. The authors found the favorable clinical outcomes
with robotic surgery noteworthy during these early phases of the introduction of our technology,
offsetting the longer anesthesia time.
In Europe, in addition to strong capital sales, we are encouraged by continued clinical
developments. While dVP adoption is driving the majority of procedure growth, initial
developments in colorectal surgery may establish the foundation for future adoption. Under theleadership of key opinion-leading surgeons, the European Academy of Robotic Colorectal
Surgeons was launched in December. Through a network of hospitals and surgeons, this group is
providing standardized training and proctoring to support the introduction of robotic colorectal
surgery across Europe. While there have been cost studies published that compare robotic
surgery within patient and surgeon populations amenable to laparoscopy, additional cost studies
with appropriate comparators were published this quarter.
I'll quickly review one from the University of Pittsburgh published in the Journal of the Society of
Laparoendoscopic Surgeons that compared robotic to laparoscopic in open benign
hysterectomies among surgeons who most commonly perform open surgery. The study
reviewed nearly 5,000 benign hysterectomies performed by 237 surgeons across 10 hospitals
from 2011 to 2013, including 119 surgeons that predominantly performed open hysterectomies.
Using actual cost data during the hospital stay, the authors found that when open surgeons
perform robotic and laparoscopic procedures, the costs were similar on an operating cost basis,
including an add-on cost for robotic maintenance and depreciation resulted in higher cost for
robotic surgeries, but the authors noted a bias in this analysis due to the exclusion of similar costs
associated with the laparoscopic procedures.
In conclusions, the authors stated, "Although laparoscopic hysterectomy had the lowest costs
overall, robotics may be no more costly than laparoscopic hysterectomy when performed by
surgeons who predominantly perform open hysterectomy."
This concludes my remarks, and I thank you for your time. I will now turn the call over to Calvin.
Calvin Darling `
Thank you, Patrick. I will be providing you with our financial outlook for 2015. Starting with
procedures, as described in our announcement last week, 2014 total da Vinci procedures grew
approximately 9% to roughly 570,000 procedures performed worldwide. During 2015, we
anticipate full year procedure growth within a range of 7% to 10%. We expect similar seasonal
timing of procedures in 2015 as we have experienced in previous years with Q1 being the
seasonally weakest quarter as patient deductibles are reset.
With respect to revenue guidance, consistent with last year, we will not be providing specific
revenue guidance. We do expect 2015 capital sales to follow historical seasonal patterns with Q1
being sequentially lower than the recently completed Q4. We will face foreign-exchange
headwinds in 2015 based upon the impacts of the stronger U.S. dollar.
Turning to gross profit. We expect our 2015 pro forma gross profit margin to be fairly consistent
with Q4 2014 based upon the anticipated proportion of Xi, Stapler, and other new products with
lower gross profit margins in our product mix and the foreign exchange headwinds I mentioned
earlier, partially offset by cost reductions realized during the year. Our actual gross profit margin
will vary quarter-to-quarter depending largely upon product mix and systems production volume.
Turning to operating expenses. We expect to grow pro forma 2015 operating expenses between
7% and 10% above 2014 levels. As we have stated previously, we believe it is fundamentally early
days for computer-assisted surgery, and we will continue to make investments to pursue
significant growth opportunities. We expect our non-cash stock compensation expense to range
between $180 million and $185 million in 2015, compared to $169 million in 2014. We expect other
income, which is comprised mostly of interest income, to total between $14 million and $16 million
in 2015.With regard to income tax, as Marshall described, we expect our 2015 pro forma income tax rate
to be between 28% and 30% of pre-tax income, depending primarily on the mix of U.S. and
international profits. This forecast is consistent with our 2014 pro forma tax rate excluding the
impact of tax reserve releases in 2014 and does not assume the reinstatement of the R&D tax
credit in 2015.
Our share count for calculating diluted EPS in Q4 2014 was approximately 37.3 million shares. We
estimate our Q1 2015 diluted share count to range between 37.4 million and 37.6 million shares.
That concludes our prepared comments. We will now open the call to your questions.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you, sir. We'll take our first question from the line of Ben Andrew with William Blair. Please
go ahead, sir.
Q - `Ben C. Andrew, William Blair & Co. LLC `
Good afternoon, guys. Thanks for taking the question. Gary, can you talk a little bit about the
investment plans in terms of dollars, breaking down international versus U.S? Are you adding
people in the field in the U.S. in 2015? And if so, to what extent? And then maybe talk a little bit
more about the specific investments overseas that you're making.
A - Gary S. Guthart `
Sure. With regard to sales head count, in the U.S. we'll have, I'd anticipate modest growth in U.S.
head count, not a ton. OUS, in terms of commercial organization, will be a greater source of
investment. Some of it is in field head count, some of it is in clinical trial effort and dollars, some in
economics and economists, so a bit of a mix.
Q - `Ben C. Andrew, William Blair & Co. LLC `
Okay. And then, Marshall, on the gross margin side, you gave us some good thoughts there in
terms of the guidance. How much is forex impacting that and when should you get to a volume
on Xi and Xi instruments where we'd start to see kind of a normalization of gross margin?
A - Marshall L. Mohr `
So, FX, a little over 20% of our revenues are FX-based and if you trickle that all the way down to
what that impact is on the bottom line, because we do have costs that are also FX-based, you
get down to where the impact is less than 3%. As far as the gross margin goes, we'll be – we're
ramping Xi, obviously, production given the volume we did last quarter. And we'll continue to try
to work down costs overall with Xi. And that's typical with all new products, but I'm not sure that
you should count on it getting on par with Si. It's a more advanced piece of equipment with higher
complexity.
Q - `Ben C. Andrew, William Blair & Co. LLC `
Okay. And then you talked about the revenue per case on instrumentation being down because
of the product withdrawal. Should we see a bounce back in Q1? And could it overshoot a bit even
as you've obviously got lower volumes, but then that flowed through the year, so we could see amore traditional stocking of instrumentation as you roll out Stapler and roll these other products
out?
A - Marshall L. Mohr `
Yes, I think the bigger impact in the quarter, frankly, wasn't the field stapler action. It was actually a
customer buying pattern. We saw fewer stocking orders being filled associated with system
shipments, and then distributor buying patterns also are odd. If you remember last year first
quarter we had a higher amount sold through distributors than Q2 it was down, I believe. So
anyway, the patterns really drove more of that change than did the field action. Having said that,
we would think, just like we commented in Q2, that we would see a more normalization over time
of the instrument and accessories per procedure.
A - Gary S. Guthart `
Yes, and, Ben, kind of looking forward at the I&A Revenue/Procedure, you look kind of full-year
2014, it was $1,880 per procedure. And as we discussed earlier, the I&A revenue based in foreign
currency is definitely going to be facing headwinds based on the stronger U.S. dollar will weigh on
the overall metric. And as you saw in 2014, the I&A revenue per procedure will vary from quarter
to quarter largely based on these timing kinds of factors.
In regards to procedure mix, we don't necessarily see that moving the dial either up or down on
that, although there are swing items in relation to the metric. One would be our relative success
with the Stapler and Vessel Sealer utilization and where our revenue/procedure is higher where
these advanced instruments are used, and conversely, a higher proportion of Single-Site cases
would weigh on the metric.
Q - `Ben C. Andrew, William Blair & Co. LLC `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Next we'll go to the line of Bob Hopkins with Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead.
Q - `Robert Adam Hopkins, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hi. Good afternoon. And thanks for taking the questions. Can you hear me okay?
A - Gary S. Guthart `
We can.
A - Marshall L. Mohr `
Yes.
Q - `Robert Adam Hopkins, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great. Thanks. So, Gary, just to start out, I'm sorry if I missed this, but could you walk through your
assumptions for buyback in 2015, and if you're not assuming a buyback, I'm curious as to why and
what the other priorities might be for your cash?
A - Gary S. Guthart `We're not declaring anything at this time. When we think about uses of cash, we really think about
a couple of things. One of them is use to invest in those things that we've talked about; the ability
to improve our presence in OUS markets, some investment in both operational efficiency and
new innovations and the ability to respond to opportunity as it comes up, technologically or
otherwise. Where we see opportunity to return cash to shareholders, we've demonstrated that
we will, and we keep our eyes open on a routine basis for those opportunities.
Q - `Robert Adam Hopkins, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Are there better M&A opportunities out there than you've seen in the past?
A - Gary S. Guthart `
We have been thoughtful and persistent for years now, and so I wouldn't comment strongly one
way or another, only that we're thoughtful and engaged in those investigations all the time.
Nothing has really changed in our rhythm or pattern the last eight quarters.
Q - `Robert Adam Hopkins, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
And then lastly, I want to ask for a real update on Sp. I know the timelines have moved around
there. Could you just highlight exactly what your expectations are for rollout and approval
milestones as we think about the course of 2015 and into 2016?
A - Gary S. Guthart `
So where we are, what we're trying to achieve on Sp, Sp is our dedicated single-port platform. As
we talked about last year, our intent is to bring some of the functionality and features that we had
brought forward in Xi and that had been well received by both our customers and by folks who
review our products. Into the Sp, we're doing that now. That feels pretty good to me. I think it's
the right set of decisions to make. We'll develop those products and assemble them in the front
half of the year and start getting customer feedback on them into the back half of the year. We
are working with regulatory bodies about what submissions might look like. We don't have
timelines to share with you on what our submissions will be, and as those firm up, we'll
communicate them with you.
Q - `Robert Adam Hopkins, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. And then maybe to sneak one more in on Japan, just really quickly. I'm trying to gauge your
confidence on the topic of Japan and whether or not you're confident at this point in suggesting
that by the time we get to 2016, we will see increases that can drive better procedure volume
growth at that time. It's really a question of gauging your confidence based on what you know
today.
A - Gary S. Guthart `
We are actively involved. I can't give you a number or a binary decision on it. We have several
conversations going on and real work in several different procedure categories. There are a lot of
people who have high interest in Japan and our products. A lot of our existing customers and
future customers, and we're working on it diligently. There are several milestones that have to be
met both on the path we're on and some alternative pathways that are real decisions on the part
of government decision makers as to where they want to go and how they want to proceed, and
it would be premature to try to forecast for you what those decisions would be.Fair enough. Thank you.
Operator
And next we'll go to the line of Tao Levy with Wedbush. Please go ahead.
Q - `Tao L. Levy, Wedbush Securities, Inc. `
Yes. Hi. Good afternoon. I wanted to ask a little bit if you can maybe expand on what you said in
the prepared remarks regarding the early uptake in hysterectomy of the Wristed Single-Site
instruments. And certainly, what type of procedures, what type of patients, which surgeons are
starting to adopt it, and is it cannibalizing multi-arm hysterectomies? Anything like that would be
helpful.
A - Gary S. Guthart `
Sure. The primary procedure that the Wristed Needle Driver – Single-Site Wristed Needle Driver is
being used for is benign hysterectomy. And it's being pursued for patients who have an interest
in a single incision. We see a mixture of existing robotic surgeons and those who have not
approached da Vinci systems before, so it's both folks who are currently engaged with us as
customers and those who have not prior engaged, we see a mixture of both of those. Product is
performing well. Early demand has been really good. And what we really want to watch and track
is what happens on reorders and how people really experience it as the go forward.
We see a little bit of both in the early stages. A little bit of switching multi-port procedures into
Single-Site and a little bit of approaching patients that otherwise would not have been done
necessarily multi-port robotically. So we're seeing both of those things, and it will take some
quarters, I think, to shake out where people ultimately find that optimization. I am not too
stressed about a little bit of cannibalization here. I think that goes with the territory, and we'll
support surgeons taking the approach they think is most appropriate.
Q - `Tao L. Levy, Wedbush Securities, Inc. `
Okay. That's helpful. And a question on the price of the Si-e. I noticed in your latest presentation
that now has an ASP of around – or at least last year – of around $600,000 and the prior year was
closer to $1 million. In terms of the pricing of that system, what's the objective? In the past, you've
talked about outpatient surgery being a potential opportunity if the pricing structure was correct
for kind of the hospitals. Is that part of that? Or is this just pricing pressure you're trying to
prevent competition from coming in at a lower price?
A - Gary S. Guthart `
Well, as you know, we have a range of options. So at the low-end, and I would not read that chart
as saying that the ASP of Si-es is that number. It's just showing you kind of where the lower end is,
and that is looking at de-featured Si's, the lower featured content Si-es, including things like
Firefly and so on. So you take those things out that moves you lower in the range.
With regard to do we think that there's possibility in other types of care, other sites of care, I think
the answer to that is yes. So you think about both, there's kind of duration of care when you talk
about things like outpatient, but there's both duration and location. How long are they in the
hospital and where is it being performed?
And we see increases in both; increases in shorter duration stays and an increase in robotic
surgery in different locations. And so Si and Si-e, some of those lower-priced packages aredesigned to give an option to some of the customers who are interested in exploring that space.
And so we've seen some interest. I don't think it's been a wild interest, unabashed interest, but
we have seen some interest and we've seen some uptake. And you just see that reflected in the
system sales numbers and placement numbers that we've shared with you.
Q - `Tao L. Levy, Wedbush Securities, Inc. `
All right. And just lastly, just a quick clarification. The Xi Single-Site instruments that you're talking
about, that's different than the Sp?
A - Gary S. Guthart `
That is different, right.
Q - `Tao L. Levy, Wedbush Securities, Inc. `
Okay.
A - Gary S. Guthart `
So exactly, the Single-Site instruments are the ones that go through curved cannulas. They work
on the same patient side platform as an Xi, the ones that we're developing now, and they're kind
of an instrument and accessory kit rather than a new patient-side system.
Q - `Tao L. Levy, Wedbush Securities, Inc. `
Okay.
A - Gary S. Guthart `
Sp is a dedicated single-port patient side, different mechanism, different robot system that
delivers it. And those are at different price points and they have different capabilities. And as Sp
progresses, we'll share more of what that product looks like and some of those distinctions with
our customers and with you as we go.
Q - `Tao L. Levy, Wedbush Securities, Inc. `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
And next we'll go to the line of `Amit Hazan, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey with SunTrust. Please go ahead.
Q - `Amit Hazan, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey `
Thanks. Good afternoon. Can you hear me okay, guys?
A - Gary S. Guthart `
We can.
A - Marshall L. Mohr `
Yes.
Q - `Amit Hazan, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey `Okay, good. Maybe let me just start with the chole side, and obviously the slowdown is quite
pronounced, if we think about it from 2013 to where we are in Q4 of 2014. So I know there's not
one driver there. I just maybe want to get some color on the different buckets of impact and
most importantly kind of the trend line now indicates really declines are going to be in the works
for next year, and just help us try to assess where the bottom might be to that category.
A - Gary S. Guthart `
Let me frame for you how we're thinking about it and I'll let Patrick take you through a little bit
more of the analytics, so that – we look at Single-Site chole, we think there are three things that
are important for a procedure long-term, and that is that it's repeatable and teachable, safe and
efficacious, and we think it is. There's a patient population that cares about it, and in Single-Site
chole we think that's true. And then the economics work, and we think the economics work for
that patient population. Then the question becomes one of how big is that population and what's
access like? And that's really what we're seeing here, as hernia really grows, and Patrick, I'll let
you take it from there.
A - Patrick Clingan `
Yes, Amit. When we look at it where systems, I guess, are pressured for access based upon their
volumes and where we're seeing declines in – the first procedure that tends to get squeezed is
the cholecystectomy. In the surgeons for which we're seeing a combination of choles and hernias
where choles are declining, we're seeing total growth in the volume of procedures that these
surgeons are performing, which is encouraging, because they're finding where it fits best in their
practice.
But over time, based on the underlying advantage of the technologies, what we're hearing from
surgeons, we're hearing from patients who get a single incision outcome, and given some of the
underlying patient demographics in the population who gets a cholecystectomy, we're
encouraged there's something here that we'll be a part of over the long run.
Q - `Amit Hazan, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey `
All right. And then if I could shift over to revenue per procedure again, I think at this point I want to
try to better understand the patterns of stocking order just given the volatility or variability we
saw in 2014. And I think specifically what I'd like to understand better is the reason it's been more
volatile in the last few quarters. And maybe asking the impact beyond the simple math of how
many systems you sell in a given quarter and the stocking associated with it, but why is that more
volatile, why are you not able to control that a little better on a quarter-to-quarter basis?
A - Patrick Clingan `
Yes, we kind of saw a similar thing in Q2 where the revenue per procedure was a bit lower than
norms and here in Q4 you had kind of a bounce back in Q3. And what we're calling out in each of
the quarters really is this timing of customer orders. In this last quarter it was timing of various
types of orders, including stocking orders associated with new system sales. You have fewer of
those coming through in the quarter than may have been according to historical norms. You have
timing of orders with international distributors and just general timing of orders. And as I
mentioned earlier, not so much to do with things like procedure mix. And so is there a pattern of
this? I think your question is, is there a pattern. I don't think there is. I think these things just tend
to fluctuate quarter-to-quarter and balance out over longer periods of time.
Q - `Amit Hazan, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey `Okay. Thanks very much, guys.
Operator
And next we'll go to the line of David Lewis with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `David R. Lewis, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Good afternoon. Gary, just two quick questions. Going back to the chole for a second. Earlier in
the year, you reduced the price of the chole instrumentation, which actually seemed to have a
successful impact on driving incremental growth. Why do you think that strategy didn't have more
staying power, and would you consider further cuts in chole to drive adoption of that procedure?
And then kind of related, Gary. How do you think hernia and the market development around
hernia is related? And is there an opportunity to use a similar pricing strategy for hernia to drive
adoption? And I have a quick follow-up.
A - Gary S. Guthart `
Sure. So on the chole side on pricing, we think that where we are right now on chole pricing with
Single-Site is really appropriate. If you look at the system that's getting average utilization, the
consumables cost of that procedure and compare it to multi-port alternatives, we think we're
right in there in terms of being competitive, and appropriate value for what Single-Site can bring.
So I think we're in a good spot there. I think the biggest thing, and Patrick alluded to it, and the
biggest thing we are hearing back from our customers is that as they look at competition for time
on the robot, they are making decisions about which cases get scheduled and which ones don't.
And that's a near-term problem.
I think in the U.S. we saw an increase in procedures per system, so that turned around in the year
where we were building capacity in the beginning part of 2014. The field has now been
consuming capacity on the robots in the U.S. I think hernia is driving that. And so part of that is this
issue of which one does a surgeon and an institution find greater value in. At the moment they
have to make that decision, and I think that's been a primary driver is that competition. And we'll
see over time if as capacity grows out and we have a broader set of options for them to choose
from, whether that modulates. We'll have to watch over the next few quarters and see how these
two play together.
The economics of hernia are interesting and a little bit different. The laparoscopic hernia repairs
use a different mix of instruments than choles do. It's a more expensive mix. Using one of our
systems instead of laparoscopy allows for trade out of some more expensive laparoscopic
instruments. And so our economic value there is well supported where we are. Currently, I think
that looks really good. The other thing is that not all hernias are an exchange between
laparoscopy and da Vinci. A lot of them are still done open – a surprising number are still done
open, and the economics also look good there. So, hernia economics, the reports we're hearing
back are pretty solid, and we're feeling like we're in a pretty good position.
Q - `David R. Lewis, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Great, Gary. Very helpful. Just one quick question on Sp timing. So it was encouraging to hear your
conviction that the delay to improve the system is moving according to plan, at least that's what I
heard. So just trying to understand the timing here. You're going to lease this product to
physicians in the first half, you're going to collect feedback from those physicians in the second
half. So I'm assuming that feedback is going to get incorporated into the device. Is it safe to
assume there can't be a design lock, then, of the system until the end of 2015 or early 2016? Orcan you submit additional modules to the FDA before you have a design lock? Or am I just
thinking about this the wrong way?
A - Gary S. Guthart `
It's an interesting question. I think the answer is that you are always moving to a point at which
you lock the design to allow for a submission, and then further feedback and iterations, right? A
product design is fundamentally iterative. And when you make a decision to submit, it depends a
lot on where you are, what you see and what kind of performance you're seeing in the product.
So you ought to think about these as kind of sequential locks, not a big one with a capital L. I think
from a technology development point of view, I'm quite pleased. I think we have a fantastic team.
I think that they're bringing technologies forward that we expect, and that are going to make a
difference. Surgeon evaluation is part of the process. So as those designs get to the point that it
makes sense to get feedback, we will absolutely do it, and we'll do that through multiple forums,
both in-house and potentially out of house, and we'll work through that.
Q - `David R. Lewis, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Okay. Thank you very much.
Operator
And next we'll go to the line of David Roman with Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.
Q - `David H. Roman, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Thank you, and good afternoon. Thank you for taking the questions. I wanted to start with
international, and if I look at the past two quarters, I think the third quarter you benefited from a
pretty significant order in China, then Q4 saw a nice step up in Europe. Can you maybe just sort
of talk about the sustainability of this uplift outside the United States and to what extent this is
tied to some of the discretionary spending investments you've made over the course of the year
versus either macroeconomic factors or other things we need to consider?
A - Gary S. Guthart `
When we look out at – just kind of stepping back – we look out at different opportunities outside
of the United States, I think that there are interesting and durable long-term opportunities, OUS.
Having said that, they can be really lumpy, and one of the reasons that we've seen the kind of
capital lumpiness that you just described is because there are different market access
requirements in different countries. For example, what approvals look like in China is totally
different than what they look like in Japan and different again from what they might look like in
different parts of Europe. So long term, we are very positive and it's the motivation for the
investments we make. Short term, expect lumpiness. It can require quotas or approvals or data
submissions, and each country is a little bit different.
Q - `David H. Roman, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Okay. And maybe just a follow-up on the U.S. and specifically the impact of the Xi system. Can
you maybe give us some feedback now that we're kind of three quarters into the launch on
whether this launch is playing out similarly to past ones, meaning that people really want to do
colorectal, for example, and need the Xi to do it, or is that people are getting the Xi and now
they're building colorectal programs and how is the whole picture on some of those more
advanced categories coming together now that we're kind of nine months into the introduction ofA - Gary S. Guthart `
I think first thing, the Xi launch has exceeded our expectations in terms of mix just because in
prior launches, we had fewer different instruments and accessories that had to be brought to the
market concurrently with the system launch. And now we have things like Firefly and stapling and
vessel sealing, a little more complex instrument set. And so those have been launched in the
market in a staggered way based on conversations with regulators and other pragmatic
constraints. So it was unclear as to when different folks would step in to acquire that system, and
we've been pleased with the rate at which Xi has been adopted in U.S. and in Europe, for that
matter. So that part has been really good.
You think about colorectal, just to go back to your assertion, colorectal was growing pretty nicely
on the Si base already, so there had been interest in pursuit of colorectal, so there is a group of
surgeons who are both interested and skilled and moving forward, and Xi allows them to keep
going. So in a sense, that's a virtuous cycle. You have some folks who have experience. Xi gives
them a little greater capability. As they've stepped in and started to use that, they're starting to
explore that greater capability, and that drives further growth and so we've seen that. We've
been also pleasantly surprised by feedback from some more of our longer-term customers in
Urology and Gynecology who have also found benefit in Xi that perhaps exceeded what we
thought they might in the very beginning.
Q - `David H. Roman, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
That's helpful. If I could just sneak one more in here, Gary, you began the call, I think, with sort of
describing 2014 as a year of transition and macroeconomic headwinds, uncertainty about the
Affordable Care Act. How would you describe the environment as we exit 2014 and as you've
talked to customers in 2015, either on the capital side or their procedure volume side on sort of a
12-month basis?
A - Gary S. Guthart `
Yeah, I think that kind of at the C-suite level we're seeing their ability to forecast their business
start to improve, and they still have to make priorities. It's not like it's a windfall on all fronts, but
they are able to project a little bit better than they were before. They've got a year of the
Affordable Care Act under their belt, and that gives them some confidence to start making some
decisions. That said, there are still capital priority discussions and other things within these
institutions, and those kind of conversations continue. On the clinical side, I think the conversation
is much the way it's been for the last couple of years. I think folks are looking at outcomes and
the cost or price they pay for those outcomes, and where they find value, then they're willing to
invest and pursue. And so in that sense, we've been pleased with the growth of general surgery
in the year. It's strengthened nicely as we've gone. And so that's kind of how we've seen it.
Q - `David H. Roman, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Okay. Understood. Appreciate all the feedback.
Operator
And next we'll go to the line of Rich Newitter with Leerink Partners. Please go ahead.
Q - `Rich S. Newitter, Leerink Partners LLC `Hi. Thank you for taking the questions. Gary, I was wondering, just with respect to your comments
on chole regarding kind of the time availability factor that might be contributing to the pullback,
and it sounds like it's a little bit of cannibalization into hernia, but what are you seeing in accounts
where maybe Xi has been placed for a few months now? What are you seeing with respect to
the trend of chole utilization? Is that alleviating some of the time constraint issue?
A - Gary S. Guthart `
With regard to Xi systems?
Q - `Rich S. Newitter, Leerink Partners LLC `
Yeah, so maybe where you had choles being done and an Xi was placed, which presumably,
assuming it's not a first robotic placement, might alleviate some of the time availability issues?
A - Gary S. Guthart `
Yeah. It's actually a good question. I don't have the answer at my fingertips.
Q - `Rich S. Newitter, Leerink Partners LLC `
Okay. Fair enough. And then if I could, on the procedure volume guidance, maybe Calvin, 7% to
10%, that's your range. Is it fair to assume the various momentum factors behind your different
procedure categories in the fourth quarter, those are essentially kind of how we should be
thinking about the composition of growth comprising that 7% to 10%? Or is it just a continuation of
the trends we saw in 4Q and carry those over to 2015 to model that growth rate?
A - Calvin Darling `
Yeah, I mean, just kind of at a high-level view, assumptions going into the 7% to 10% guidance
range, we're anticipating a similar U.S. Gynecology and Urology macro trends that we saw in 2014
continuing on into 2015, and we absolutely expect that U.S. general surgery and international will
continue to drive procedure growth in 2015 as they did in 2014. Particular swing items that could
move you towards the lower end or the higher end of the range would be changes in those
macro trends in Gynecology and Urology, those are large sets of procedures, and then as we
saw in this last couple of years, those things can definitely move the dial, growth rates in early-
stage U.S. general surgery procedures, how they – the trajectory they follow is going to be
important, the international growth side of things, and as was discussed a little earlier, just how
successful we are with the Wristed Needle Driver contributions and how that may impact benign
hysterectomy.
Q - `Rich S. Newitter, Leerink Partners LLC `
Okay. And maybe...
A - Marshall L. Mohr `
We'll just take one more question, please.
Q - `Rich S. Newitter, Leerink Partners LLC `
Thank you.
OperatorAnd we will next go to the line of Larry Keusch with Raymond James. Please go ahead.
Q - `Larry S. Keusch, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
Hi. Good afternoon. Gary, could we circle back to Sp and help us think about the procedures that
again, you're targeting on that system and how we should think about that relative to the current
Single-Site system that's out there?
A - Gary S. Guthart `
Sure. Rather than thinking about procedures, I'd guide you to what does it do differently? And
because I think it's early, and it has a lot of long-term possibility, but predicting exactly which one's
when is going to be hard. What does it do differently? It delivers four computer-assisted or
robotically-assisted instruments through a parallel access that can go fairly deep into the body
through an entry point. And so, when you think about that, you think about accessing the throat or
the head and neck area transorally, you think about trans-umbilical things that might be able to be
reached that are otherwise hard to reach with an architecture like Single-Site or transanal
procedures or transvaginal procedures.
Now, you can think a lot about them, we think about what are the disease states that surgeons
can affect, positively impact with a technology like that or an opportunity like that. And they're
fairly diverse and pretty interesting, and then you have to go all the way through some of the
testing and evaluation that we're talking about doing this year, which is what can actually be done
and at what kind of efficiency and what kind of price points, and that's where the heavy lifting is.
So on long term, I think it will open some interesting doors. Near term, we're not ready to call
procedure sizes for you yet.
Q - `Larry S. Keusch, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
Okay. And then just lastly, if you could maybe dissect a little bit about the procedures as you look
through the year and talk a little bit about the seasonality that you saw actually in the benign
procedures through the year? I'm just curious if there are any observations that you can make
relative to the benign procedures done across the board.
A - Gary S. Guthart `
It's a good question. We'll have Patrick jump in.
A - Patrick Clingan `
Yeah, hey Larry. I think if you just look at the way in which the year played out, the first quarter
tended to be a little bit weaker relative to the rest of the year, so from an extent you could say
that there was more seasonality in some of those benign procedures over the course of the year.
That said, at the beginning of the year there was also a lot of disruption with the implementation
of the Affordable Care Act, so it's hard to necessarily pin it on seasonality. But to the extent that it
was seasonality last year, just beware because we still have a significant component of our
business in those benign procedures.
A - Gary S. Guthart `
That was our last question. Thank you. As we've said previously, while we focus on financial
metrics such as revenues, profits and cash flow during these conference calls, our organizational
focus remains on increasing patient value by improving surgical outcomes and reducing surgical
trauma.I hope the following assessment of our latest system, the da Vinci Xi by Dr. Harkins, a Texas
general surgeon, gives you some sense of the impact our products have in surgery. "Despite my
obvious interest in minimally invasive surgery I had resisted adopting previous da Vinci platforms
because of what I felt were imitations. The da Vinci Xi platform is a game changer for me. I now
feel that this technology will not just equal my standard of laparoscopic abilities but actually allow
me to reach new levels in providing surgical care to my patients."
We have built our company to take surgery beyond the limits of the human hand, and I assure you
that we remain committed to driving the vital few things that truly make a difference.
This concludes today's call. I thank you for your participation and support on this extraordinary
journey to improve surgery, and I look forward to talking with you again in three months.
Operator
And, ladies and gentlemen, again, that does conclude our teleconference call for this afternoon.
Again, thank you very much for your participation, and you may now disconnect.