Q4 2015 Earnings Call

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Intuitive Surgical Q4 2015
Earnings Release Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we
will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. As a
reminder, today's conference is being recorded.
And I would now like to turn the conference over to the Senior Director of Finance for Investor
Relations for Intuitive Surgical, Mr. Calvin Darling. Please go ahead, sir.
Calvin Darling `
Thank you. Good afternoon, and welcome to Intuitive Surgical's fourth quarter earnings
conference call. With me today we have Gary Guthart, our President and CEO; Marshall Mohr, our
Chief Financial Officer; and Patrick Clingan, Senior Director of Finance.
Before we begin, I would like to inform you that comments mentioned on today's call may be
deemed to contain forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those
expressed or implied as a result of certain risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties
are described in detail in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including
our most recent Form 10-K filed on February 5, 2015, and 10-Q filed on October 21, 2015. These
filings can be found through our website or at the SEC's EDGAR database. Prospective investors
are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
Please note that this conference call will be available for audio replay on our website at
intuitivesurgical.com on the Audio Archive section under our Investor Relations page. In addition,
today's press release and supplementary financial data tables have been posted to our website.
Today's format will consist of providing you with our highlights from our fourth quarter results as
described in our press release announced earlier today followed by a question-and-answersession. Gary will present the quarter's business and operational highlights. Marshall will provide a
review of our fourth quarter financial results. Patrick will discuss marketing clinical highlights, then I
will provide our financial outlook for 2016, and finally, we will host a question-and-answer session.
With that, I will turn it over to Gary.
Gary S. Guthart `
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us on the call today. 2015 was a good year for Intuitive
with increased use of our products around the globe and solid operational execution. Our focus
in 2015 was to drive adoption of our platform in general surgery, expand our da Vinci Xi Surgical
System product line, increase our organizational capability and performance in international
markets, and improve contribution margins for our newly launched products. Themes that
emerged at the close of 2014 continued into 2015 with strong performance in general surgery
and international procedure growth.
Full year global procedure growth was approximately 14%, led by growth in general surgery,
growth in the use of da Vinci Surgical Systems outside the United States, and strength in urology.
U.S. general surgery growth was approximately 31% for the year, made up of strong growth in
inguinal hernia repair, ventral hernia repair, and colorectal surgery. Use of Single-Site in
cholecystectomy and hysterectomy declined for the year. Outside of the United States,
procedure growth was strong, rising approximately 26% over procedures in 2014. Patrick will
review procedure trends in greater detail later in the call.
Looking at trends in capital sales for the year, capital placements increased in 2015 to 492 from
431 placements in 2014. Customer interest and acceptance of our latest platform, da Vinci Xi, has
been positive with Xi making up the majority of placements for the year. In 2015, we shipped 298
systems in the United States, 90 in Europe, 77 in Asia and 27 in other global markets. Our
operations teams remain focused on optimizing our manufacturing, design and supply chains for
our newer products. Progress in the back half of 2015 has been solid with steady improvements in
reducing product costs for our new systems and advanced instruments. We expect our product
costs to continue to improve in 2016 and 2017 as a result of these efforts.
As we've said before, our offerings make up an ecosystem designed to encompass our
customers' needs in building and running outstanding robotic surgery programs. 2015 was a year
in which we focused on enabling our ecosystem with new product launches globally. We launched
our da Vinci Xi System with a core set of instruments, Vessel Sealer and Firefly Fluorescence
Imaging in 2014. We broadened access to our Xi System with international regulatory clearances
through the year.
We also added our 45 mm Xi Stapler in Q1 as well as Harmonic Curved Shears and a second set
of instruments in Q2 of 2015. We submitted our 510(k)s for our 30 mm Stapler for Xi, Single-Site
instrument kit for Xi, as well as other Xi accessories in the second half of 2015. I'm pleased to
report that we obtained FDA clearance for integrated Xi table motion this month.
In addition to products, our surgeon customers can choose from dozens of training courses
provided by academic surgeons as well as courses designed for assistants and other operating
room staff. Our customers own over 1,400 surgical simulators and over 600 dual consoles to
assist them in technology training. In addition, our teams have provided detailed analytic and
operational support for customers seeking to optimize and benchmark their programs relative to
international norms. We believe the combination of these products and services are important to
fully enable our customers.Looking back at the full year of 2015, our operating performance is summarized as follows.
Worldwide procedures grew by approximately 14%. We shipped 492 da Vinci Surgical Systems in
the year, up from 431 in 2014. Total revenue was $2.4 billion, up 12% from 2014 and up 15% on a
constant currency basis. Recurring revenue grew to $1.7 billion, up 11% and comprising 70% of total
revenue. We generated $946 million in pro forma operating profit, up 16% from last year. Pro
forma net income was $731 million, up 20% from 2014, and we repurchased 366,000 shares at
an average price of $502 per share during 2015.
Turning to our operating performance for the fourth quarter, procedures grew approximately 15%
over the fourth quarter of last year. We shipped 158 da Vinci Surgical Systems, up from 137 in the
fourth quarter of 2014. Total pro forma revenue for the quarter was $677 million, up 13% from
prior year. Instrument and accessory revenue increased to $326 million, up 16%. We generated a
pro forma operating profit of $293 million in the quarter, up 28% from the fourth quarter of last
year, and pro forma net income was $224 million, up 22% from Q4 of 2014.
As we look to the future, we passionately believe that robotic-assisted surgery is in its infancy in
application and technology. As we have improved our costs and supply chains for new products,
we anticipate increasing our investments in key areas that will enable and drive the future of
robotic-assisted surgery. These include product investments in advanced imaging, advanced
instrumentation and next-generation robotics. We will also continue to invest in procedure,
product and program analytics, international market development, and economic and clinical
validation.
Looking to 2016, our priorities are as follows. First, we'll focus on the expanded use of da Vinci in
general and thoracic surgery, particularly colorectal surgery and hernia repair. Second, we'll work
to advance our ecosystem, including expanding our Xi line and taking our Sp product line into
initial clinical use. Third, we'll drive our organizational capabilities in markets in Europe and Asia.
And finally, we'll continue to assist our customers in their efforts to maximize the comprehensive
value of their programs.
I'll now turn the call over to Marshall, who will review financial highlights.
Marshall L. Mohr `
Thank you, Gary. I'll be describing our results on a non-GAAP or pro forma basis which excludes
the impact of our prior-year Xi trade-in programs, legal settlements and legal claim accruals,
stock-based compensation, amortization of purchased IP, and investment impairments. We
provide pro forma information because we believe that business trends and operating results are
easier to understand on a pro forma basis. I will also summarize our GAAP results later in my
script.
We have posted reconciliations of pro forma results to our GAAP results on our website so that
there is no confusion. Pro forma fourth quarter revenue was $677 million, an increase of 13%
compared with $601 million for the fourth quarter of 2014 and an increase of 15% compared with
last quarter. Pro forma revenue for the fourth quarter of 2014 excludes $4 million of revenue
associated with offers made in 2014 to trade out Si product for Xi product. All trade-out offers
were either fulfilled or lapsed in 2014. Fourth quarter 2015 procedures of approximately 177,000
increased 15% compared with the fourth quarter of 2014 and increased 9% compared with the
third quarter of 2015. Procedure growth was primarily driven by general surgery procedures in the
U.S. and urology worldwide.
Revenue highlights are as follows. Pro forma instrument and accessory revenue increased 16%relative to prior year reflects procedure growth and increased sales of advanced instruments
partially offset by the impact of foreign exchange. The increase over the prior quarter reflects
procedure growth in sales of advanced instruments partially offset by customer buying patterns.
Instrument and accessory revenue realized per procedure, including initial stocking orders, was
approximately $1,840 per procedure. This metric has now been trending in a tight range between
$1,830 per procedure and $1,840 per procedure over the past year with recent quarters
reflecting higher sales of advanced instruments offset by the impact of foreign exchange.
Pro forma system revenue of $231 million increased 9% compared with last year and increased
32% compared with last quarter. The increase relative to the prior year primarily reflects
increased unit sales. The increase relative to the third quarter reflects increased unit sales
partially offset by lower ASPs, 158 systems replaced in the fourth quarter compared with 137
systems in the fourth quarter of 2014 and 117 systems last quarter.
Approximately 72% of the systems shipped in the quarter were Xi's, which is comparable to prior
quarters. Globally, our average system price of $1,550,000 was comparable to the fourth quarter
of 2014 and slightly less than the $1,600,000 ASP last quarter. Relative to the prior year, increases
related to a lower trade-in mix were mostly offset by foreign exchange. The decrease relative to
the third quarter reflects geographic mix and a lower proportion of Xi dual consoles. ASPs
fluctuate quarter-to-quarter based on geographic and product mix, trade-in volume and changes
in foreign exchange rates.
Hospitals financed approximately 17% of the systems placed in the fourth quarter, down from
25% last quarter. We directly financed 20 systems, including placing the most operating leases,
16, since we began our direct leasing program in the second quarter of 2014. As of the end of the
fourth quarter, 49 of the 3,597 systems out in the field were under operating leases. We exclude
the impact of operating leases from our system ASP calculations. Service revenue of $120 million
increased 9% year-over-year and increased 2% compared with the third quarter of 2015. The
year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter increases reflect the increase in our installed base of da
Vinci Systems.
Outside of U.S. results were as follows. Fourth quarter pro forma revenue outside of the U.S. of
$219 million increased 11% compared with $198 million for the fourth quarter of 2014, and
increased 45% compared with $151 million last quarter. The increase compared with the previous
year reflects higher system unit sales and higher recurring revenue driven by procedure growth
of 27%.
Outside the U.S., we placed 75 systems in the fourth quarter compared with 66 in the fourth
quarter of 2014 and 37 systems last quarter. Current quarter system sales include 13 into China, 11
into Japan, eight into Italy and seven into Brazil. System placements outside the U.S. will continue
to be lumpy as some of these markets are in the early stages of adoption, some markets are
highly seasonal, reflecting budget cycles or vacation patterns, and sales into some markets are
constrained by government regulations.
The pro forma gross margin for the fourth quarter of 2015 was 69.6% compared with 67.1% for
the fourth quarter of 2014 and 69.3% for the third quarter of 2015. Compared with the fourth
quarter of 2014, the higher gross margin reflects lower inventory charges, improved efficiencies,
partially offset by foreign exchange and a higher mix of our newer products, which carry lower
gross margins than our mature products. Gross margin includes the impact of the medical device
tax, which has been suspended for the next two years. The medical device tax reduced our 2015
gross margin by approximately 70 basis points. Future margins will fluctuate based on the mix ofour newer products, on whether we are required to pay the medical device tax and cost
associated with manufacturing efficiencies and product charges.
In 2014, we recorded pre-tax charges of approximately $82 million representing the estimated
cost of settling a number of product legal liability claims under a tolling agreement. During 2015,
we refined our estimate of the overall cost of settling claims and recorded additional charges of
approximately $14 million in the first half of the year. There were no charges in the second half of
2015. Charges made related to this agreement are excluded from our pro forma results and are
included in our GAAP results. As of the end of the fourth quarter, $24 million remained accrued on
our balance sheet as a significant portion of the estimated costs have been paid.
Pro forma operating expenses, which exclude reserves for legal claims, stock compensation
expense and amortization of purchased IP, increased 7% compared with the fourth quarter of
2014, and increased 6% compared with last quarter. Year-over-year increase of pro forma
operating expenses primarily reflects head count additions and higher incentive compensation.
The increase relative to the third quarter primarily reflects increased incentive compensation. Our
pro forma effective tax rate for the fourth quarter was 24.9% compared with an effective tax rate
of 23.5% for the fourth quarter of 2014 and 18.4% last quarter. The effective tax rate for the third
quarter of 2015 included tax benefits of $29 million or $0.77 per share related to a recent
favorable Tax Court ruling involving an independent third party.
In late December, Congress renewed the federal research and development credit resulting in a
benefit of $6 million or $0.17 per share. Congress also made the R&D tax credit permanent, so
our 2016 rate guidance will reflect this benefit. Our tax rate will fluctuate with changes in the mix
of U.S. and O-U.S. income. Our fourth quarter 2015 pro forma net income was $224 million or
$5.89 per share compared with $184 million or $4.92 per share for the fourth quarter of 2014 and
$199 million or $5.24 per share for the third quarter of 2015. As I indicated earlier, pro forma
income provides an easier comparison of our financial results and business trends.
I will now summarize our GAAP results. GAAP revenue was $677 million for the fourth quarter of
2015 compared with $605 million for the fourth quarter of 2014 and $590 million for the third
quarter of 2015. GAAP net income was $190 million or $4.99 per share for the fourth quarter of
2015 compared with $147 million or $3.94 per share for the fourth quarter of 2014 and $167 million
or $4.40 per share for the third quarter of 2015. We ended the year with cash and investments of
$3.3 billion, up from $3.1 billion as of September 30, 2015. The increase was primarily driven by
cash generated from operations and proceeds from stock option exercises partially offset by
stock buybacks. During the quarter, we repurchased approximately 167,000 shares for $84 million
at an average price of $505 per share. This brings our total stock repurchases for 2015 to
approximately $184 million.
And with that, I'd like to turn it over to Patrick, who will go over our procedure and clinical
highlights.
Patrick Clingan `
Thanks, Marshall. Total fourth quarter year-over-year procedures grew approximately 15% with
U.S. procedures growing approximately 12% and international procedures growing approximately
27%. Full year 2015 procedure growth was approximately 14% with U.S. procedures growing
approximately 11% and international procedures growing approximately 26%.
In the U.S., fourth quarter procedure growth of approximately 12% was driven by continued
strength in general surgery procedures with solid contribution coming from mature proceduresdespite already high levels of market penetration. We do not expect the strong 2015 growth in
established U.S. urology and gynecology procedures to continue in 2016.
In U.S. urology, fourth quarter growth in da Vinci prostatectomy and kidney cancer procedures
continued at similar rates as earlier in the year. We continue to believe that our U.S.
prostatectomy volumes have been tracking to the broader prostate surgery market. 2015
procedure growth in U.S. urology was approximately 12%, led by an approximate 11% growth in da
Vinci prostatectomy. We expect U.S. da Vinci prostatectomy procedure volumes to return to a
level more in line with prostate cancer incidence rates moving forward.
In U.S. gynecology, fourth quarter procedures grew modestly year-over-year with growth in
malignant and complex hysterectomy partially offset by declines in benign procedures. During
2015, a larger proportion of da Vinci hysterectomy procedures were performed by gynecologic
oncologists compared to 2014. For the year, growth in U.S. gynecology procedures was
approximately 1%. In 2016, sustaining growth in U.S. gynecology may be a challenge as we believe
the total market for benign hysterectomies will continue to decline at a low single digit rate.
Fourth quarter growth in U.S. general surgery remained strong with robust growth in hernia repair
and continued adoption of colorectal procedures being partially offset by continued declines in
cholecystectomies. U.S. general surgery procedure growth was approximately 31% for the year
with broad-based growth across several procedures led by hernia repair, which generated the
largest number of new general surgery procedures. Growth in colorectal resections was also
strong during 2015. In 2016 there remains a large opportunity in hernia repair and colorectal
resections, and driving adoption in these markets remains among our top priorities.
During the quarter, a group of general surgeons led by Dr. Vorst from Saint Joseph's Mercy
Health System and Dr. Carbonell from the University of South Carolina School of Medicine
published their perspective on advances in ventral and incisional hernia repair in the World Journal
of Gastrointestinal Surgery. Within the paper, data comparing the robotic to open open re-Stoppa
(21:26) technique for more complex hernias favored the robotic approach with the reduction in
blood loss, shorter length of hospital stay, fewer surgical site infections, and no difference in
operative times or direct costs.
The paper states that robotic approach "permits relatively easy access to the anterior abdominal
wall, allowing the surgeon to perform the ideal repair for that patient, it also might allow for
standardization of surgical technique in order to develop a reliable approach to hernia repair that
can be offered to an increasing number of patients."
Regarding our U.S. Single-Site business, cholecystectomy volumes continued to decline during the
fourth quarter, though mostly offset by a growth in multi-port cholecystectomies. In addition, our
Single-Site gynecology procedure volumes declined in the fourth quarter. Taken together, Single-
Site procedures represented less than 5% of our fourth quarter U.S. procedure volume.
Looking abroad during the fourth quarter, the approximate 27% international procedure growth
was led by the global adoption of da Vinci prostatectomy with solid contributions from kidney
procedures, malignant hysterectomies, and colorectal resections. For the full year, procedure
growth was approximately 26%. Procedure growth in Europe remained steady throughout 2015. In
Asia, procedure growth was led by broad-based adoption in China and South Korea, and da Vinci
prostatectomy adoption in Japan.
During 2016, we expect several external factors to impact international procedure growth. In
Japan, the Surgical Society has submitted for reimbursement of partial nephrectomies to theIn China, we've placed 32 of the 38 da Vinci Systems under the current authorization and
sustaining strong procedure growth throughout 2016 may require additional authorizations from
the government.
During the quarter, the global evidence for the cost effectiveness for the use of da Vinci Surgery
in gynecologic oncology continued to build. A new study from Copenhagen University Hospital by
Dr. Herling (23:31) and colleagues modeled the clinical and economic impact of the adoption of
da Vinci for malignant hysterectomies, capturing the comprehensive cost of care associated with
these interventions.
The study compared 158 open hysterectomies to 202 da Vinci hysterectomies and found that da
Vinci hysterectomies were 17% less expensive than open hysterectomies based on operating
costs and 7% less expensive than open hysterectomies when the da Vinci System cost was
included. The study found that cost savings associated with fewer complications and shorter
hospitalization more than offset the incremental costs associated with the use of da Vinci
technology in the operating room.
2015 was a robust year for clinical publications featuring da Vinci Surgery with over 1,600 papers
published during the year, bringing total clinical publications to over 10,000.
This concludes my remarks. I thank you for your time. I will now turn the call over to Calvin.
Calvin Darling `
Thank you, Patrick. I will be providing you with our financial outlook for 2016. Starting with
procedures, as described in our announcement last week, 2015 total da Vinci procedures grew
approximately 14% to roughly 652,000 procedures performed worldwide. During 2016, we
anticipate full year procedure growth within a range of 9% to 12%. We expect similar seasonal
timing of procedures in 2016 as we have experienced in previous years with Q1 being the
seasonally weakest quarter as patient deductibles are reset.
With respect to revenue, we expect 2016 capital sales to follow historical seasonal patterns which
we anticipate will become more pronounced with Q1 being sequentially lower than the recently
completed Q4. System placements will likely continue to be lumpy particularly in markets outside
of the U.S. as some of these markets are in early stages of adoption. Some markets are highly
seasonal, reflecting budget cycles or vacation patterns, and sales into some markets are
constrained by government regulations.
Turning to gross profit, we expect our 2016 pro forma gross profit margin to be within a range of
between 68% and 69.5% of net revenue. Our actual gross profit margin will vary quarter-to-
quarter depending largely on product and regional mix.
Turning to operating expenses, as Gary mentioned, we will be increasing our investments in key
areas that will enable and drive the future of robotic-assisted surgery. We expect to grow 2016
operating expenses between 9% and 13% above 2015 levels. We expect our non-cash stock
compensation expense to range between $170 million and $180 million in 2016 compared to $168
million in 2015. We expect other income, which is comprised mostly of interest income, to total
between $20 million and $25 million in 2016.
With regard to income tax, we expect our 2016 pro forma income tax rate to be between 26.5%
and 28.5% of pre-tax income, depending primarily on the mix of U.S. and O-U.S. profits. This
forecast does reflect the reinstatement of the R&D tax credit in 2016.Q&A
Operator
Our first question today comes from the line of David Roman with Goldman Sachs. Please go
ahead.
Q - `David Harrison Roman, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Thank you, and good evening, everybody. I wanted to start with one strategic question and one
follow-up on the financial guidance that Calvin just provided. Maybe on the strategic side, I was
hoping, Gary, you could go into your thoughts as it relates to the competitive landscape in
robotics. We've heard over the past several months announcements from a couple emerging
competitors, and there's an expected announcement from another competitor later in 2016.
Can you maybe talk about how you envision the competitive landscape unfolding and some of
the activities you may be undertaking to prepare Intuitive from moving from a monopoly-type
market to one that has multiple players?
A - Gary S. Guthart `
Sure. As we look out at value and competition, at the end of the day, value is going to be driven
by the ability of these products and services to drive great outcomes and compared or weighed
against the price of those things. We think about it as an ecosystem. We think the ecosystem is
really important. So it's easy to think just about the robotic system, because that's the most
visible part. But there is the systems, the instruments and accessories, advanced instrumentation
like stapling, imaging systems, fluorescence imaging, training technologies like simulators and
dual console, clinical validation, training courses offered by academic surgeons that number in the
dozens.
That whole set of products and ecosystem we think is important, and so as competitors enter
they have to choose, can they show that value in terms of outcomes and price? And can they
offer the set of ecosystem elements that are going to be useful? We've known for years and
have anticipated for years, we didn't wake up yesterday and think competitors are coming, we
better do something. So we've been thoughtful about what we need to do to create value for
our customers. We have a range of products in the system side that hits different price points for
different feature content, we have different options that are available in terms of instrumentation
price points. And so we think we're really well-positioned. There are some other companies out
there that will be capable. We expect that customers will explore what they're offering. We think
we're well-positioned when that exploration occurs.
Q - `David Harrison Roman, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Okay. That's helpful. And then maybe just to go into the financial side for a second. Calvin, I just
want to understand what you're saying on the margins for 2016. The gross margin range seems
to imply that on an underlying basis when you take out the benefit of the medical device tax,
you're seeing a deterioration from where you sort of exited the second half of 2015. One of the
factors influencing that math and then on the OpEx side the 9% to 13% represents a pretty
decent acceleration from what we saw this year. Can you maybe help put some of those
investments into context where those dollars are going and whether 2016 represents a new
normal year of investment spending or there's something in particular that you're after this year?
A - Calvin Darling `Sure, David. I'll take you through some of the gross profit commentary and let Gary take you
through some of the investments on the OpEx side. Like Gary said on the call, we're focused on
reducing our cost of the new products and we've been managing our fixed costs very carefully.
We're pleased with the progress we've been making throughout 2015. Our second half 2015
gross profit benefited from favorable product mix, essentially zero product charges and other
favorable outcomes. In 2016 we do expect to deliver continued cost reductions on the newer
products, including the Xi Stapler, Vessel Sealer and Xi Endoscopes.
At the same time, as compared to the second half of 2015, we'd expect a higher proportion of
2016 sales to be of the newer products, we'd expect a lower proportion of dual console system
sales, probably a higher proportion of system sales involving trade-ins and probably some
product charges at some point may be more in line with historical norms from the past. And while
FX is not likely to be as strong a headwind as it was in 2015, it does appear as though it will have
some negative impact on revenue and margins. And then lastly, I'd say from the competitive side,
any pressure there, the impacts of that are unknown at this stage.
A - Gary S. Guthart `
On the investment side as I mentioned in the script, we think that there's a significant opportunity
to improve what surgeons can see during cases, improving imaging through a variety of means,
technologically, and we've been working on that for years and we'll continue to do so. I think
there's great potential there. On the instrumentation side, we're expanding our stapling line and
our advanced energy lines. The reception has been quite good. Those are not single instruments,
they're really families of instruments and we're filling out those families as we go. We feel good
about it and think it's important. We'll continue to invest there. And we think that there are
opportunities in robotics in terms of bold structure, things like Sp and other things that can
change different segments of the market that can allow us to enter other procedures that we're
not currently in today or access other regions of the world that may have different needs. And so
we'll continue to invest in those things.
Q - `David Harrison Roman, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Okay. I appreciate all the detail. Thank you.
Operator
And we do have a question from the line of David Lewis with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `David R. Lewis, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Good afternoon. Sorry. I wanted to come back to margins here for a second. The spread on
margins, Marshall or Calvin, is sort of 68% to 69.50%, it's a wider spread. I don't think you gave us
a spread sort of last year. So what defines sort of the upper end and lower end of those ranges?
And I guess secondarily, when I think about these product manufacturing improvements you're
making, we seem to have a substantial impact on gross margins in the second half of the year. I
guess I would presume those advantages or those costs would be a bigger tailwind in 2016 over
2015. Is that a kind of correct statement? Those two questions and then I have a quick follow-up.
A - Marshall L. Mohr `
To characterize the cost reductions, they had some impact in the second half of 2016 – or 2015,
sorry. They will have a more significant impact in 2016 and 2017, and as Calvin had said, we'll
continue to focus on reducing the costs. I think the bigger improvement during 2015 had to dowith the lack of product charges that we mentioned in Q1. And as we move forward, the range is
really – or the breadth of the range is really reflective of the items that Calvin gave you, which is
that we expect to see a higher proportion of newer products to the extent of that we'll see. We
expect to see a lower proportion of dual consoles and a higher proportion of trade-ins. The mix
of systems is always difficult to predict. And, you know, frankly, geographic mix also has an
implication here, and as I said in my script, there's quite a bit of lumpiness to some of those
geographic markets.
Q - `David R. Lewis, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Okay. And then, Gary, just a quick strategic and margin question for you as well. So in the
expenses we saw a couple of years ago you made a selective decision to sort of reinvest. Is that
– I mean, this is a 50% increase in OpEx spending relative to 2015, you know, 400 basis points to
500 basis points above. Do you see this sort of similarly as sort of the opportunity to reinvest?
And is the investment spend heavier on SG&A or R&D? And then the follow-up is just on Sp. As
you mentioned, in light of what's happening with Single-Site procedures, does that change your
thinking of the opportunity on Sp? Sorry for the couple of questions there. Thank you.
A - Gary S. Guthart `
Sure. Yes, in terms of the balance of investment, it really is targeted in a couple of areas. R&D is
clearly one area that will get investment and then support for international markets. And some of
those things are more structural, not necessarily just sales folks, but clinical trials and other things.
So that's where the balance or the bulk of that increase is going to lay. And we think we have
technologies that are important and we think we have process that we can bring that's important
and that will serve us well in the long-term and in the future.
With regard to Sp vis-à-vis Single-Site, we think that Sp really enters and adds value in a different
place than Single-Site does. Single-Site tended to work on a little bit more limited workspace, a
little bit more constrained set of procedures. Sp is both broader and more capable. The price
points are a little bit different, so we think about Sp when we think transoral, transanal, colorectal
places where there is specimen removal. So we look at those things when we think about it. Sp is
less oriented towards cosmetic benefits and more oriented towards being able to reach complex
structures where you need to.
Q - `David R. Lewis, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Okay. Thank you very much.
Operator
And we have a question from the line of Tao Levy with Wedbush. Please go ahead.
Q - `Tao L. Levy, Wedbush Securities, Inc. `
Great. Thanks. Good afternoon.
A - Gary S. Guthart `
Hey, Tao.
Q - `Tao L. Levy, Wedbush Securities, Inc. `So maybe we could start with U.S. system utilization. When you do the math, you're reaching peak
levels here in the U.S. in terms of averages. And so what's the dynamic currently in the
marketplace whereby hospitals could potentially accelerate the addition of new systems in order
to begin to meet your procedure growth expectations that you've laid out?
A - Gary S. Guthart `
Yes, I think as we look at – to make sure I interpreted the question right, I think as we look at
utilization patterns, one thing that's important to remember around the world, but in the U.S. as
well is there's not a single customer profile that fits them all, so the average does not cover all
the endpoints. And so we definitely see some integrated delivery networks who are very
interested in optimizing procedures per system per year and trying to drive that up to get their
capital utilization and we will help them do that.
We see other health systems that may be in the exact same market who were really interested in
driving convenience for patients and for their surgeons and are willing to invest in capital once
they get to the kind of a minimum hurdle rate for procedure use or utilization. And so we see
both. Predicting which of those strategies is going to dominate into the year is always a little bit
hard, and at the end of the day, we really focus the organization on great utilization and great
support, whichever strategy our customer wants to take us down.
Q - `Tao L. Levy, Wedbush Securities, Inc. `
Okay. And just my follow-up, you've talked a couple of times about investing more and more into
imaging, and aside from Firefly, we haven't seen anything very significant come out of the
company. So maybe you could highlight a couple of the interesting projects within imaging that
we should be paying attention to. Thanks.
A - Gary S. Guthart `
Sure. First statement is I beg to differ. But I look at the imaging platform that we brought out with
Xi and it's a fundamentally different technology basis distal chip imaging, that gives us a room to
do some things from a usability, reach, and work flow point of view that were very hard to do
otherwise. And so we continue down that pathway. So for example, in Xi, you can move the
scope arm to arm. There's not a dedicated robot to hold one endoscope, so that gave you the
idea of port hopping, the ability to look around the abdomen differently. The other thing that
distal chip imaging gets you is the ability to articulate your endoscope, which is part of the Sp
product line, is endoscopic articulation.
We continue to invest in that sort of technologies and extend our leadership position there
because I think that both you can get better image quality and more flexibility and better price
points by doing that technology. So that's one set of investments. The other set is, as you
mentioned, with Firefly the ability to look and see things that you can't see easily with a white
light; so the ability to look and see beneath a tissue or to highlight tissue structure. And there are
a set of technologies there that are useful and we're investing in but those are longer-term. They
take a while to develop and as we get further down the pipeline, we'll share with you where we
are.
Q - `Tao L. Levy, Wedbush Securities, Inc. `
Great. Thank you.
OperatorAnd we have a question from the line of Ben Andrew with William Blair. Please go ahead.
Q - `Ben C. Andrew, William Blair & Co. LLC `
All right, good afternoon. Thanks for taking the questions, guys.
A - Gary S. Guthart `
Hey, Ben.
Q - `Ben C. Andrew, William Blair & Co. LLC `
On the initial Sp use, Gary, that you talked about, you listed a few applications there. Should we
assume that that's where we'll see some initial clinical work? And when might we see results from
those either published or discussed? Is that later this year, next year, that maybe leads to next
steps of commercializing the product?
A - Gary S. Guthart `
Right. Yes, in terms of the first question of those are places we are intending to explore, so,
colorectal and transoral. We will also explore other places in time but those are our initial
experience – we expect to have our initial experiences. In terms of timelines, I'm not ready yet to
tell you when in the year it will happen. We're still in conversations with regulatory bodies about
pathway and so as we get some clarity there, then we'll describe it to you later in the year.
Q - `Ben C. Andrew, William Blair & Co. LLC `
Okay. And on that same vein, if you look out three years or four years, can the Sp platform be a
material percentage of the company's volumes? Or is it something that probably remains a niche
given the price point and we shouldn't really think differently about the distribution of than maybe
5% or 10%, if you will?
A - Gary S. Guthart `
I think that it offers surgeons a different way to think about getting into the body and a different
approach. It can deliver a lot of capability in a small package, parallel into the body, and it can
move about the body quite easily in terms of multi-quadrant access. So I think it's hard to predict
long-term. I think for sure near-term there are niches that I think it matters. Whether those niches
grow into bigger opportunities I think remains to be seen.
Having said that, the history of Intuitive and the history of technology is that as you bring raw
technology into the hands of experts and they start to use it and develop it, a way leads to way
(42:37). And I believe that. I think that we'll see things that develop as surgeons get deep with it.
How big that gets, impossible to predict right now.
Q - `Ben C. Andrew, William Blair & Co. LLC `
Okay. And then lastly for me – thank you for taking the questions, by the way. The range of
procedure guidance is a little wide to start the year obviously and let's just try to isolate one
effect if we can; China. So if we don't see another authorization for system sales, is that a
material impact within the range? Is that a percentage point or two percentage points in terms of
a potential swing? Or how should we look at example, China specifically?
A - Patrick Clingan `Thanks for the question, Ben. When it comes to procedure guidance, our focus is going to
continue to be on driving growth in general surgery in our international markets including China.
When you look at the breadth of the range to your question, there's far bigger impacts than just
the system authorization in China when it comes to the mature procedures in the U.S. and the
rates of growth that we may see there that benefited us in 2015 and certainly across a much
wider range of markets.
Q - `Ben C. Andrew, William Blair & Co. LLC `
Okay, great. Thank you.
Operator
And we do have a question from the line of Matt O'Brien with Piper Jaffray. Please go ahead.
Q - `JP McKim, Piper Jaffray & Co (Broker) `
Hi, everyone. This is actually JP in for Matt. Thanks for taking my questions. I just want to get back
to the margin kind of profile for next year and ask it in a more simpler way. So if you exclude the
70 basis points that you're getting for the med tax credit given the guidance you gave for OpEx
next year, would we be expecting the adjusted EBIT margins to actually be down year-over-year?
A - Calvin Darling `
Yes, I mean, I think there are a lot of layered assumptions that go into the model and we don't
have specific guidance and it relates to that, revenue would be one of the factors certainly
underlying the overall assumptions there. I think what we tried to do is lay out a lot of the factors
that would be impacting the gross margin as well as the investments we're making on the
expense side.
Q - `JP McKim, Piper Jaffray & Co (Broker) `
Got it. And if I could ask one on the recent clearance for the integrated table motion; how is that
sale going to be? And how are you guys going to get revenue from that? Is that going to be a
sale from Trumpf Medical and you guys will get a piece of the revenue? Or how will that work?
A - Marshall L. Mohr `
Yes, actually Trumpf will sell the table in an independent transaction to the hospital. What we get
out of it is we sell a software upgrade package for the table that allows it to operate in an
integrated fashion.
A - Calvin Darling `
Yes, I think for us the key here is we're working to make the operation more efficient, right? This
will make the ability for surgeons to reposition the patient without having to withdraw the robot
arms, redock during a procedure, make it more efficient and, therefore, benefit certain groups of
procedures and hopefully drive adoption in them. I think that's really the key benefit from our
perspective.
Q - `JP McKim, Piper Jaffray & Co (Broker) `
Great. Thank you.Operator
We do have a question from the line of Bob Hopkins from Bank of America. Please go ahead.
Q - `Robert Adam Hopkins, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thanks and good afternoon.
A - Gary S. Guthart `
Hey, Bob.
Q - `Robert Adam Hopkins, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
So I wanted to ask a question about 2016 revenue growth to start. Can you give us a sense as to
where you see incremental opportunities for acceleration? So what are the areas where you see
your product categories or you see the potential for accelerating revenue growth or entirely new
growth drivers in 2016 versus what you experienced in 2015? And obviously we're well aware of
what the major growth drivers are. I'm kind of curious about the things that potentially are
available to you in 2016 that weren't available in 2015.
A - Gary S. Guthart `
Yes, as you know we look at 2016 in a couple of places. I think that we have opportunity in O-U.S.
markets in various places that are important to us. Now there are some structural things that we
have to overcome and invest in and sometimes a reimbursement and sometimes there are other
parts of market access. And we'll do that but I think the opportunity there is quite good. I think in
terms of other verticals, we are working on a 30 mm Stapler. The 30 mm Stapler is really
targeted at thoracic procedures. Xi System design is – part of its design intent was to facilitate
thoracic procedures and we're in early days there.
So as time goes on, I don't think that's something that is going to leap out of the gate in the
beginning part of the year, but things that we are investing in from a product and support point of
view that should build momentum over the next multiple quarters.
Q - `Robert Adam Hopkins, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
And then, Marshall, to follow up on two quick things. On the revenue per procedure number, you
highlighted that's been very stable within a range but it feels like the cadence of new products
will pick up as we move forward there. Can we expect that line item to start moving back up
towards the old highs as we go forward here? And then the other quick thing I wanted to ask of
you is that I appreciate the comment that 70% of revenues now come from disposables. Can you
give us a rough sense as to what the relative profitability of that disposable stream is versus the
capital side of the business?
A - Marshall L. Mohr `
Yes, so first talking about the range of I&A revenue per procedure, we would hope that we'd be
able to add to that number through increases in the advanced instrumentation including stapling
and vessel sealing. As I said that's been somewhat muted or offset by the effects of foreign
exchange over the last few quarters. But there are other factors that could change that. I don't
know what the historical high you are speaking about was, but I do think that there's room for it to
grow going forward.Q - `Robert Adam Hopkins, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
It was about $2,000, I think.
A - Gary S. Guthart `
Yes, remember that number has in it stocking orders and some timing of other things. So longer-
term, as you have a bigger and bigger installed base, the relative value of stocking orders is
going to go down. And that has nothing to do with the sort of the pure economics of the
exchange. The other question was around recurring revenue, and remember, it's not just
instruments, it's also service.
A - Calvin Darling `
That adds about 50% is kind of the instruments and accessories of revenue, and 20% would be
the service element to get to the 70% total recurring.
A - Marshall L. Mohr `
And the margins on instruments and accessories are better than systems. And so as we get a
quarter where we have a higher mix of systems, then the margins are going to be lower.
A - Gary S. Guthart `
And that trend is likely to be durable, I&A and service will be higher-margin systems.
Q - `Robert Adam Hopkins, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great. Thank you very much.
Operator
And we do have a question from the line of `Brandon Henry, RBC Capital Markets LLC with RBC Capital Markets. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Brandon Henry, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Yes, thanks for taking my question. So Intuitive is now showing kind of two years of strong U.S.
urology growth. Can you discuss the reason for this outperformance in urology and how
sustainable you think this strong performance is in 2016?
A - Patrick Clingan `
Yes, Brandon, thanks for the question. A year ago, you saw a turnaround in the volumes of da
Vinci prostatectomy in the U.S., kind of the midpoint of the year, and the back half of the year
started to see some growth. And that sustained throughout 2015. And the rate of growth has
been certainly above what we believe the incidence rates of prostate cancer to be in the country.
And also within U.S. urology is growth in partial nephrectomy as well, which has been pretty
consistent and sustained given the profile of what da Vinci technology brings to that procedure
from both a clinical outcomes and cost-effectiveness perspective. As we look at 2016, our
baseline assumption is that the high levels of growth that we've seen over the last six quarters
are likely to begin returning more towards the incidence rates of the disease.
Q - `Brandon Henry, RBC Capital Markets LLC `Okay. And then one quick question on Sp. Can you talk about why you decided to develop Sp as
essentially an add-on to the Xi platform and not as its own standalone platform? And then maybe
also talk about your expectations for Sp, instrumentation at launch? Do you anticipate having a
Vessel Sealer and a Stapler at launch that will work with Sp? Thanks.
A - Gary S. Guthart `
Yes. On the reason to make it compatible with Xi, I think it's really a straightforward thing, which is
a lot of the components are shared in terms of service console and imaging systems. We want
the customer experience to be seamless for our customers. We think there are surgeons who
can go back and forth between Sp's and Xi's, and what that means is that you want the user
experience to be common. We also make it easier for hospital departments to acquire capital if
they already have a dual console or an Xi and they want to just add the Sp card capability that
makes the capital hurdle for them lower. And so it strengthens the Xi ecosystem. And I think that
is a good idea and it's well received. So that has made sense for us. We haven't yet announced
what our instrument kit will be for Sp. And when we get to that point, we'll let you know.
Q - `Brandon Henry, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
And we do have a question from the line of `Richard Newitter, Leerink Partners LLC with Leerink Partners. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Richard Newitter, Leerink Partners LLC `
Hi. Thanks for taking the questions. Maybe just one on Sp, and then I had one on the rotating bed.
On Sp, Gary, did you say that you're moving into clinical kind of testing or some sort of limited
launch by the end of this year? Does that mean that that's kind of your official launch in end of
2016?
A - Gary S. Guthart `
We don't expect material revenues in 2016. We are planning on clinical experiences in 2016.
Q - `Richard Newitter, Leerink Partners LLC `
Okay, got it. And then on Sp, on the approval process, I know you said that it's kind of in
discussion with the FDA right now. There is a competitor of yours that has a device that they are
saying that they think they can get approval for their device based on larger kind of buckets or
broader definitions of categories like urological procedures or general abdominal procedures.
Can you help us understand if this is something that you've heard the FDA say to you as well? Or
is it more nuanced than that and you need to go much more specific by individual procedures?
A - Gary S. Guthart `
Yes, so the issue of kind of broad claim language versus narrower claim language actually was
part of the discussion at the FDA workshop and I can refer you there to those minutes and you'll
see pretty much what that exchange has been. The issue, I would not view that as something
that's architecture dependent or only offered to a certain company. That has to do – in other
words, FDA is going to respond to these kind of products in like manner, as far as I can tell.And so that comes down to FDA asks for a certain amount of data based on the kinds of things
you want to talk to your customer about. And if you just want to talk about broad things and not
specific things, then they ask for one set of data, and the more specific you get, the more data
they ask for around that set of specifics. So in general, it's a matching of data requirements with
claims, and so they're describing to you a strategy around what they think they can do from a
data requirement point of view. I think the playing field will be level here, and to the extent that
customers need a certain amount of information, then it's just going to be for all of us to go
create that data and deliver it.
Q - `Richard Newitter, Leerink Partners LLC `
Got it. And just lastly on the bed, can you help us understand what procedures, if any, or certain
types of surgeons that might have been on the sidelines for whom this product might push them
over the fence and really drive adoption in the procedures that otherwise might have been
slower to adopt? Are there any specific procedures the bed could really open up? Thanks.
A - Gary S. Guthart `
Yes, general surgeons routinely use that motion to do two things; to use gravity as a retractor, so
it's an extra hand using gravity; and for the anesthesiologist to manage the patient in terms of
positioning with regard to other vital signs and things like that. So, in procedures where you're
trying to manage bowel, for example, it's really helpful to have table motion. And that is clearly
something that jumps out. However, once we've had it, it's now been CE Marked in Europe and
we've had it trialed in different specialties, I think its appeal is broad. So we thought about it
upfront initially around general surgery. I think its appeal will be broader than that.
Q - `Richard Newitter, Leerink Partners LLC `
Thank you.
Operator
And we do have a question from the line of `Rick Wise, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. with Stifel. Please go ahead.
A - Gary S. Guthart `
Rick, you'll be our last questioner.
Q - `Rick Wise, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Okay. Thank you.
A - Gary S. Guthart `
(56:08).
Q - `Rick Wise, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
I appreciate it, Gary. Maybe just to start here, Gary, you said several times in the course of your
prepared remarks and in the Q&A that robotics is in its infancy. Just a big picture for a second; for
you, are you emphasizing it because perhaps this next wave of pipeline products that you've
talked about and maybe some you haven't talked about are getting you more confident or
excited about the potential for another growth reacceleration or an inflection point in theadoption of robotic surgery? I appreciate that the numbers of systems placed relative to
hospitals is small but just wondered if there was anything more there?
A - Gary S. Guthart `
Sure. I think a couple of things that excite me and lead me to believe there's a lot of opportunity,
a couple. One of them is that I think in the architectures we're in today, in the markets for which
we have clearance is there's still a lot of procedures that are being done open and have
opportunity to be done minimally invasively with our products. And I think that comes down to
execution and delivery of some of the things we have in the pipeline.
Having said that, I think that as you just stand back and look out over the next decade and ask, do
we think that robotic surgery can impact more procedures and more types of procedures than
they are being impacted today? I think the answer to that is absolutely yes. Some things are
things like Sp, products that look different. Sp won't be the last set of products that look different.
We think there are opportunities for other products and technologies that can really make a
difference in surgeons delivering great care.
And so we're excited about it and we're investing in it and I think ask just about any surgeon, do
you think that the use of computation, analytics, and robotics is going to improve your practice
over time or become less important? And the answer is pretty uniform that those kinds of
technologies should help them if they're well delivered and well executed.
Q - `Rick Wise, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Got you. Two last quick ones. I'll ask at the same time. Instrument and accessories growth, I think
for the first time in at least five quarters, maybe longer, certainly since 2012 annually, did grow
faster than procedures. Is there something that we should read into that with implications for the
next couple of years? Or is it just stocking given the flattish revenues per procedure? And the
second one I'll throw it at you at the same time. The bed approval, you've launched it in Europe in
2015. Just maybe did your early experience there, did it drive utilization or procedures or Xi or
capital sales? Any color there would be welcomed. Thanks. Appreciate it.
A - Calvin Darling `
Yes, on the revenue per procedure, I don't think there's much more than what we said. There's a
lot of factors that impact that particular metric. It has been running at a pretty tight range, $1,830
to $1,840. It did kind of tick over to a growth this last quarter as we saw utilization of advanced
instruments kind of more than offset some of the headwinds mostly from exchange. But again, I
think a lot of those factors could vary in the future in terms of procedure mix, customer efficiency,
buying pattern, foreign exchange. So it's really a lot of factors there.
A - Gary S. Guthart `
On Xi, the surgeon feedback has been outstanding. Too soon to tell in terms of number of sites
and duration as to what the changes and trends are, but we'll be watching. Thanks, Rick. That was
our last question.
As we have said previously, while we focus on financial metrics such as revenues, profits and cash
flow during the conference call, our organizational focus remains on increasing value by enabling
surgeons to improve surgical outcomes and reduce surgical trauma. I hope the following
comments from Dr. Solomon (1:00:10), a general surgeon from Orlando, Florida, gives you some
sense of the impact our products have in surgery. "The advanced technologies and improveddexterity of the da Vinci Xi System have allowed me to perform complex minimally invasive
operations with a statistically measurable improvement in outcomes.
My patients are clearly and reproducibly benefiting from less pain, a shorter length of hospital
stay, less time off work and lower short-term and long-term complications." We have built our
company to take surgery beyond the limits of the human hand and I assure you that we remain
committed to driving the vital few things that truly make a difference. This concludes today's call.
Thank you for your participation and we look forward to talking to you again in three months.
Operator
And, ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude your conference for today. Thank you for your
participation, and for using the AT&T Executive TeleConference Service. You may now disconnect.