Q4 2016 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Intuitive Surgical Q4 2016
earnings release call. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, today's conference is being
recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Senior Director of Finance and Investor Relations
`Calvin Darling, Senior Director Finance & IR. Please go ahead.
`Calvin Darling, Senior Director Finance & IR `
Thank you. Good afternoon. Welcome to Intuitive Surgical's Fourth Quarter earnings conference
call. With me today we have `Gary Guthart, President, CEO, our President and CEO. And `Marshall Mohr, SVP, CFO, our Chief
Financial Officer. Note that Patrick Clingan, who routinely participates on these calls, will not be on
the call today to attend to personal matters. We look forward to his return next time.
Before we begin, I would like to inform you that comments mentioned on today's call may be
deemed to contain forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those
expressed or implied as a result of certain risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties
are described in detail in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including
our most recent Form 10-K filed on February 2, 2016. And 10-Q filed on October 19, 2016. These
filings can be found through our website or at the SEC's EDGAR database. Prospective investors
are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
Please note that this conference call will be available for audio replay on our website at
intuitivesurgical.com on the audio archive section under our investor relations page. In addition,
today's press release and supplementary financial data tables have been posted to our website.
Today's format will consist of providing you with highlights of our Fourth Quarter results as
described in our press release announced earlier today, followed by a question-and-answer
session. Gary will present the quarter's business and operational highlights. Marshall will provide areview of our Fourth Quarter financial results, then I will discuss procedures and clinical highlights
and provide our financial outlook for 2017. And finally, we will host a question-and-answer session.
With that, I will turn it over to Gary.
`Gary Guthart, President, CEO `
Good afternoon. And thank you for joining us on the call today.
Intuitive was founded on the mission to expand the availability of minimally invasive surgery,
increase its efficacy. And decrease its invasiveness. And the Fourth Quarter capped a strong year
in pursuit of this mission, led by continued growth in da Vinci procedures and expansion of our
installed base. Annualized global procedure growth was approximately 15% in the Fourth Quarter
and 15% for the full year.
Trends in procedures were consistent through the year, with increased use of da Vinci in general
surgery in the United States, continued growth in urology in Japan and Europe. And multispecialty
growth in Korea and China. Mature procedures in the United States, including prostatectomy and
hysterectomy, outperformed our initial expectations, largely due to macro trends in diagnosis of
prostate cancer and treatment patterns for hysterectomy.
Procedure growth in Europe, Korea. And China were healthy through the year. Procedure
adoption in Japan was solid for those procedures that have been reimbursed. Calvin will review
procedure trends in greater detail later in the call.
Our capital placement performance in 2016 strengthened over 2015, resulting in a growth of total
placements from 492 in 2015 to 537 this year. Net of trade-ins and retirements, our clinical
installed base grew from 3,597 to 3,919 in the year. Our range of capabilities and price points and
our ability to be flexible with acquisition methods has allowed us to meet varying customer needs
in a competitive capital environment. Customers have chosen our most capable system, da Vinci
Xi, in roughly three-quarters of new capital placements for the full year. Da Vinci Xi is well
matched with procedure opportunities in thoracic and general surgical procedures, such as colon
and rectal surgeries.
US capital placement stood out in the year, while capital placements in Asia were consistent with
prior trends. As we have said in prior calls, system quotas in China and reimbursements in Japan
temper placement growth and make it hard to predict.
Turning to Europe, while procedure growth was solid in 2016, system placements declined versus
2015 for reasons that vary by country. In our largest European markets, we believe the long-term
procedure and system opportunity is significant, with further adoption benefiting from additional
economic validation in mature procedures like prostatectomy and from country-specific clinical
and economic data for emerging procedures like colorectal surgery.
Overall, despite the slowdown in capital in 2016, we are positive about our long-term prospects
in Europe and continue to develop our organization and invest in European clinical and economic
data to support our customers.
Turning to highlights of our Fourth Quarter operating results, procedures grew approximately 15%
over the Fourth Quarter of last year. We shipped 163 da Vinci Surgical Systems, up from 158 in the
Fourth Quarter of 2015.
Revenue for the quarter was $757 million, up 12% from prior year. Pro forma gross profit was 71.1%,
compared to 69.6% in the Fourth Quarter of last year. Instrument and accessory revenueincreased to $386 million, up 19%. Total recurring revenue in the quarter was $521 million,
representing 69% of total revenue. We generated a pro forma operating profit of $320 million in
the quarter, up 9% from the Fourth Quarter of last year. And pro forma net income was $242
million, up 8% from Q4 of 2015.
Highlights of the full year of 2016 are as follows. Procedures grew approximately 15% over full-
year 2015. We shipped 537 systems in 2016, up from 492 in the prior year. Revenue for the year
was $2.7 billion, up 13%. Pro forma gross margin was 71.6% for the full year, compared to 68.2% in
2015. Total recurring revenue for the year was $1.9 billion and represented 71% of total revenue.
Pro forma operating profit for the year was $1.2 billion, up 22% from 2015. And pro forma net
income was $879 million, up 20%.
As we mentioned in mid-December, our Board of Directors increased our stock buyback
authorization to $3 billion and we announced today an accelerated repurchase program in the
amount of $2 billion. We retain the flexibility to act on the remaining $1 billion in authorization in
parallel with the ASR. Overall, we are committed to the thoughtful return of excess capital to
shareholders and believe our buyback program will serve shareholders well. Marshall will take you
through our finances in greater detail shortly.
As our business has strengthened, we have increased our mid; and long-term investments in
creating our next generation of products and services. These investments are based on our
belief that substantial opportunity exists to enable more minimally invasive surgery, better
outcomes. And to expand access to our technologies globally.
Our current da Vinci Sp system met its development goals in the Fourth Quarter and we initiated
its first clinical feasibility study. As we have discussed on prior calls, we plan first markets to
include head and neck surgery, urology. And colorectal surgery. Sp is a platform technology that
allows high-dexterity access with great 3-D vision to confined surgical spaces. Early surgeon
response to Sp in the trials has been very positive. We anticipate initiating an Sp IDE trial in the
United States for transoral robotic surgery, as well as submitting a 510-K for urologic applications,
both in the first half of 2017.
We're also making good progress on our flexible robotics platform, first targeted to address the
acute need and diagnosis of lung cancer, one of the most commonly diagnosed forms of cancer
in the world and for which early detection is important. The technology underpinning this system
is based on computer-controlled catheters, advanced image processing. And sophisticated
sensing.
As we mentioned previously, the system is in its early stages of our human clinical experience.
This experience has been compelling. And our design and operations teams are working hard to
incorporate feedback and complete its production design and supply-chain optimization. Given
the long-term opportunity for this system in lung cancer detection and other potential
applications, we have been growing our team in this space. We do not anticipate revenue from
this product in 2017.
Imaging and intelligent algorithms offers significant opportunities to enhance surgeon capabilities.
Our investments include hardware and imaging -- image processing updates to our Xi platform to
enhance imaging performance and reduce costs. We are also investing in contrast agents for
specific anatomical structures, recently announcing our plan to commence Phase I trials of a
ureter imaging agent compatible with our Firefly imaging hardware and software.
Imaging and intelligent algorithms work also includes processing and presentation ofaugmented reality or mixed reality technology. We have been working on these technologies for
several years and more recently with our partner InTouch Health. Our next step in mixed reality
technology is working in prototype form in laboratory settings today and we will move towards
first human use in 2018.
Bringing new platforms to the market represents a significant investment and we expect to invest
up to $80 million more in 2017 than our typical operating expense run rate growth. These
investments are focused on clinical and economic data, particularly in Europe and Asia; expansion
of our operations capability to include da Vinci Sp; investments in our diagnostics platform; and
continued investments in imaging. Calvin will take you through the spending implications later in
the call.
In closing, entering 2017 we are focused on the following. First, continued adoption of da Vinci in
general surgery. Second, continued development of European markets and access to customers
in Asia. Third, advancing our new platforms -- imaging, advanced instruments, da Vinci Sp. And
diagnostic platform progress. And finally, support for additional clinical and economic validation by
global region.
I will now turn the call over to Marshall, who will review financial highlights.
`Marshall Mohr, SVP, CFO `
Thank you, Gary.
I will describe our results on a non-GAAP or pro forma basis, which exclude specified legal
settlements and claim accruals, stock-based compensation. And amortization of purchased IP. We
provide pro forma information because we believe that business trends and operating results are
easier to understand on a pro forma basis. I will also summarize our GAAP results later in my
script. We have posted reconciliations of our pro forma results to our GAAP results in our website
so that there is no confusion.
Consistent with our preliminary press release on January 11, Fourth Quarter 2016 revenue was
$757 million, an increase of 12% compared with $677 million for the Fourth Quarter of 2015 and an
increase of 11% compared with the Third Quarter revenue of $683 million.
Fourth-quarter 2016 procedures increased 15% compared with Fourth Quarter of 2015 and
increased 9% compared with last quarter. Procedure growth relative to last year and the Third
Quarter has been driven by general surgery in the US and urology worldwide. The increase
relative to the prior quarter also reflects procedure seasonality.
Revenue highlights are as follows. Instrument and accessory revenue of $386 million increased
19% compared with last year and increased 11% compared with the Third Quarter of 2016.
Instrument and accessory revenue realized per procedure, including initial stocking orders, was
approximately $1,900 per procedure, compared with $1,840 last year and $1,870 last quarter. The
increase relative to the Fourth Quarter of 2015 primarily reflects increased sales of our stapling
and vessel sealing products. The increase compared with the Third Quarter of 2016 primarily
reflects the impact of customer buying patterns.
System revenue of $236 million increased 2% compared with the Fourth Quarter of 2015 and
increased 15% compared with last quarter. The year-over-year increase reflects higher system
placements and higher revenue associated with lease buyouts and operating leases, partially
offset by lower average selling prices. The quarter-over-quarter increase reflects higher system
placements, partially offset by lower lease buyout revenue and lower average selling prices. 163systems were placed in the Fourth Quarter of 2016, compared with 158 systems in the Fourth
Quarter of 2015 and 134 systems last quarter. 13 systems were placed under operating lease
transactions in the quarter, including our first two into Germany, compared with 16 in the Fourth
Quarter of 2015 and 15 last quarter.
As a reminder, revenue on operating lease transactions is recognized ratably over the life of the
lease. As of the end of the Fourth Quarter, there were 79 systems out in the field under
operating leases. We generated approximately $5 million of revenue associated with operating
leases in the quarter, compared with $3 million in the Fourth Quarter of 2015 and approximately
$4 million last quarter.
We generated approximately $7 million of revenue during the quarter from lease buyouts,
compared with $3 million in the Fourth Quarter of 2015 and $13 million last quarter. We exclude
the impact of operating leases and lease buyouts from our system ASP calculation. Globally, our
ASP was $1.48 million, compared with $1.55 million last year and $1.53 million last quarter. We sold
a higher proportion of Si refurbished systems in India and Europe in the quarter, as we see cost
sensitivities in certain segments of these markets.
Service revenue of $135 million increased 12% year over year and increased approximately 4%
compared with the Third Quarter of 2016. The year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter increases
reflect growth in our installed base of da Vinci Systems.
Outside of the US, results were as follows. Fourth-quarter revenue outside of the US of $212
million decreased 4% compared with $219 million for the Fourth Quarter of 2015 and increased
12% compared with $189 million for the Third Quarter. Recurring revenue increased 24%
compared with the previous year and 10% compared with the Third Quarter, reflecting procedure
growth and distributor buying patterns.
Systems revenue decreased 27% compared with the Fourth Quarter of 2015 and increased 14%
compared with the previous quarter. Outside of the US, we placed 63 systems in the Fourth
Quarter, compared with 75 systems in the Fourth Quarter of 2015 and 49 systems last quarter.
The increase in system placements relative to the prior quarter reflects seasonality. The decrease
in system placements relative to the prior year reflected 10 fewer systems into China, where we
await a new quota. And four fewer systems into Brazil, where we are in the early stages of
market adoption.
Current-quarter systems sales included 26 into Europe, three into China, 15 into Japan. And 19
into rest of world markets. System placements outside of the US will continue to be lumpy, as
some of the OUS markets are in early stages of adoption; some markets are highly seasonal,
reflecting budget cycles or vacation patterns; and sales into some markets are constrained by
government regulations.
Moving on to the remainder of the P&L, total pro forma gross margin for the Fourth Quarter was
71.1%, compared with 69.6% for the Fourth Quarter of 2015 and 73.1% for the Third Quarter of
2016. The pro forma gross margin for the Third Quarter of 2016 included $7.1 million of medical
device tax refunds, which benefited the Third Quarter gross margin by approximately 100 basis
points. Excluding this impact, the decrease in gross margin relative to the Third Quarter reflects a
higher mix of systems revenue and higher scope repair costs. Compared with the Fourth Quarter
of 2015, the higher gross margin reflects reduced product costs and manufacturing efficiencies.
Future margins will fluctuate based on the mix of our newer products, the mix of systems and
instrument and accessory revenue, costs associated with our scope exchange program, ourability to further reduce product costs and improve manufacturing efficiency. And, in the long
term, the potential reinstatement of the medical device tax.
Pro forma operating expenses increased 23% compared with the Fourth Quarter of 2015 and
increased 14% compared with last quarter. The increases primarily reflect increased headcount,
increased product development activities. And investments in our OUS commercial organization.
We accelerated some operating expenses into the Fourth Quarter in anticipation of spending
growth in 2017.
Our pro forma effective tax rate for the Fourth Quarter was 26.9%, compared with an effective
tax rate of 24.9% for the Fourth Quarter of 2015 and 22.7% last quarter. The pro forma Third
Quarter 2016 tax rate reflected $16 million of tax benefits, or $0.40 per share, realized as a result
of the statute of limitation expirations in various jurisdictions. The Fourth Quarter of 2015 tax rate
reflected a full-year benefit associated with the reinstatement of the R&D tax credit whereas
R&D -- the R&D credit has been recognized ratably during 2016. Our tax rate will fluctuate with
changes in the mix of US and OUS income and with the impact of one-time items.
Our Fourth Quarter 2016 pro forma net income was $242 million, or $6.09 per share, compared
with $224 million, or $5.89 per share, for the Fourth Quarter of 2015 and $246 million, or $6.19 per
share, for the Third Quarter of 2016. Excluding the one-time income tax and medical device tax
benefits, pro forma net income for the Third Quarter of 2016 would have been $225 million, or
$5.65 per share. As I indicated earlier, pro forma income provides an easier comparison of our
financial results and business trends.
I will now summarize our GAAP results. GAAP net income was $204 million, or $5.13 per share, for
the Fourth Quarter of 2016, compared with $190 million, or $4.99 per share, for the Fourth
Quarter of 2015 and $211 million, or $5.31 per share, for the Third Quarter of 2016.
We ended the quarter with cash and investments of $4.8 billion, up from $4.6 billion as of
September 30, 2016. The increase was primarily driven by cash generated from operations and
proceeds from stock option exercises. During the quarter, we repurchased 55,000 shares for
$34 million.
In mid-December, the Board of Directors increased the amount of authorized -- the amount
authorized for stock buybacks to $3 billion. Today, we entered into a $2 billion accelerated stock
buyback program with Goldman Sachs. The total number of shares repurchased will be based on
a negotiated discount to the volume weighted average price of the stock over the contract
period, which is expected to end in the Fourth Quarter, unless terminated earlier by Goldman
Sachs.
Goldman is expected to deliver approximately 2.4 million shares, representing the initial delivery,
within the next week. We will retire these shares as soon as practical thereafter. A final delivery of
shares under the program, if any, will be delivered at the end of the contract period. Under our
agreement with Goldman Sachs, we have reserved the ability to repurchase additional shares in
the open market up to the Board's authorization during the accelerated stock buyback period.
And with that, I would like to turn it over to Calvin, who will go over our procedure and clinical
highlights.
`Calvin Darling, Senior Director Finance & IR `
Thank you, Marshall.Our overall Fourth Quarter procedure growth was approximately 15%, as US procedures grew
approximately 13% and outside-the-US procedures grew approximately 23%. For the full year
2016, global procedure growth was also 15% overall, 13% US and 24% OUS.
In the United States, Fourth Quarter procedure trends were similar to the Third Quarter,
characterized by strong general surgery growth, continued relative strength in gynecology. And
modest dVP growth. Full-year 2016 US procedures totaled approximately 563,000, growing
approximately 13%, compared to 11% in 2015.
Fourth-quarter US general surgery procedure adoption remains strong, led by solid growth in
hernia repair and continued adoption of colorectal procedures. Hernia repair continues to
contribute the largest volume of new procedures in general surgery, as surgeon retention and
expansion remains encouraging. Full-year 2016 US general surgery procedures totaled
approximately 186,000, reflecting growth of approximately 33%, compared to 31% in 2015.
In US gynecology, Fourth Quarter procedures again grew modestly year over year, with growth
led by malignant and complex benign hysterectomy. Procedures for other benign gynecologic
conditions also grew modestly. Full-year 2016 US gynecology procedures totaled about 246,000,
up approximately 3%, compared to growth of approximately 1% in 2015.
In US urology, Fourth Quarter da Vinci Prostatectomy procedures grew at low single-digit rates,
consistent with the Third Quarter. We believe that our US prostatectomy volumes have been
tracking to the broader prostate surgery market. Approximately 70,000 dVPs were performed in
the US in 2016, up approximately 5%, compared to 11% growth in 2015. Full-year 2016 US urology
procedure volume of approximately 109,000 grew approximately 7%, compared to
approximately 12% in 2015.
In other US procedures, early-stage adoption of lobectomies and other thoracic procedures was
strong during the quarter and year. These set of procedures are particularly well served by our da
Vinci Xi product and 30-millimeter stapler products.
Turning abroad, procedure growth outside of the United States was approximately 23% in the
Fourth Quarter and approximately 24% for the full year 2016. Growth was driven by the continued
adoption of da Vinci Prostatectomy, with solid contributions from kidney procedures.
Total procedure growth in Asia overall was strong, notably so in key strategic markets of China,
Japan. And Korea. In Europe, procedure performance varied by country. Approximately 190,000
procedures were performed outside of the US in 2016.
As Marshall mentioned earlier, our average instrument and accessory revenue realized per
procedure increased on a year-over-year basis, largely attributable to the adoption of our
stapling and vessel sealing technologies.
During the Fourth Quarter, one of the first studies on our EndoWrist stapler was published in the
Journal of Laparoendoscopic & Advanced Surgical Techniques by Dr. Holzmacher and colleagues
from the George Washington University School of Medicine. In their small case series comparing
an EndoWrist to a laparoscopic 45-millimeter stapler for colorectal procedures, the authors found
that the EndoWrist stapler was safe and effective while using fewer stapler fires, reducing the
cost per procedure by approximately $150.
The authors stated advantages of the robotic stapler include large range of motion and nine
degree articulation. The robotic stapler has a comparable level of safety as a 45-millimeter
laparoscopic stapler and is more cost effective.Beyond the stapler study, Q4 was another quarter with a large number of clinical publications
evaluating da Vinci surgery. Dr. Cigdem Benlice and colleagues from the Cleveland Clinic of
colorectal surgery digestive disease institute recently published a study titled Robotic
Laparoscopic and Open Colectomy, a case-matched comparison from the ACS NSQIP. The study
aimed to compare perioperative outcomes of patients undergoing robotic, laparoscopic. And
open colectomy using the procedure-targeted database of the American College of Surgeons
National Surgical Quality Improvement Program, ACS NSQIP.
Robotic, laparoscopic. And open groups were matched 1 to 1 to 1 based on age, gender, body
mass index, surgical procedure, diagnosis. And ASA classification. Out of the 12,790 patients, 387
fulfilled criteria per group after matching. Univariate comparisons showed operating time was
longer and hospital stay was shorter in the robotic group. Important complication rates, including
morbidity, superficial SSI, bleeding requiring transfusion, ventilator dependency. And (iliates) rates
were demonstrably lower in the robotic group.
The authors concluded that the ACS NSQIP data demonstrated several short-term advantages of
robotic surgery, compared with laparoscopic and open surgery.
I will now be providing you with our financial outlook for 2017. Starting with procedures, as
described in our announcement last week, 2016 total da Vinci procedures grew approximately
15% to roughly 753,000 procedures performed worldwide. During 2017, we anticipate full-year
procedure growth within a range of 9% to 12%. We expect 2017 procedure growth to continue to
be driven by US general surgery and procedures outside the United States while we're still in
early stages of adoption.
Our 2017 procedure growth expectations are directionally lower than the 2016 results, based
upon the following assumptions for 2017 -- moderating growth in our mature US dVP and
gynecology procedures that benefited from favorable macro trends in 2016, moderating
international procedure growth as we await additional da Vinci procedure reimbursement in
Japan and additional system sales quota in China. And lower percentage growth in US general
surgery off a larger base of procedures. We expect similar seasonal timing of procedures in 2016
as we have experienced in previous years, with Q1 being the seasonally weakest quarter as
patient deductibles are reset.
With respect to revenue, as we have mentioned previously, capital sales by their nature can vary
from period to period based upon many factors, including hospital response to the evolving
healthcare environment under the new US administration, hospital capital spending cycles,
reimbursement in government quotas. And competitive factors. Within this construct, we would
expect 2017 capital sales to follow historical seasonal patterns.
Turning to gross profit, as Marshall described our full-year 2016 pro forma gross profit margin was
71.6%, as we ended the year at 71.1% in Q4. In 2017, we expect our pro forma gross profit margin
to be within a range of between 69% and 71% of net revenue. We are projecting a modestly
lower gross profit margin in 2017, reflecting the unfavorable impact of the stronger US dollar on
OUS revenue and margin, non-recurrence of the medical device tax refund recognized in 2016,
higher costs associated with new products. And directionally lower system ASPs as we see
incremental market interest in our lower-priced offerings in certain geographic markets. Our
actual gross profit margin will vary quarter to quarter, depending largely upon product and
regional mix.
Turning to operating expenses, as Gary and Marshall described we are accelerating up to $80
million in investment in several strategic areas that will benefit the Company over the long term.Consistent with that direction, we expect to grow pro forma 2017 operating expenses between
15% and 18% above 2016 levels. We expect our non-cash stock compensation expense to range
between $190 million and $200 million in 2017, compared to $178 million in 2016.
We expect other income, which is comprised mostly of interest income, to total between $25
million and $30 million in 2017.
With regard to income tax, consistent with our 2016 guidance we expect our 2017 pro forma
income tax rate to be between 26.5% and 28.5% of pretax income, depending primarily on the
mix of US and international profits.
That concludes our prepared comments. We will now open the call to your questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) `Margaret Kaczor, Analyst, William Blair & Company, William Blair.
Q - `Margaret Kaczor, Analyst, William Blair & Company `
The first question for me is you guys have been pretty busy announcing, obviously, the R&D
spend. You have got the ASR. So clearly you guys are seeing a ton of opportunity. And so to that
end, how should we think about the composition of the business three years from now, five years
from now, whether it is based on disease state or sales channels, ASCs versus hospitals, or even
product categories. So diagnostics, surgery, or even postop?
A - `Gary Guthart, President, CEO `
This is Gary. I think in the next few years I would expect the business categories to be more or
less as we describe them now. I think over time as Sp comes into the market it will feel like a
surgical device in the kind of settings that you're used to. We do see increasing use of our
products in ASCs. It's not a dominant part of the business at this time. I do think it will grow over
time.
Then on the diagnostic segment, too early to tell what those segments will break out into. I think
it is a platform. I think over time it will broaden. In the early stages, we will be talking to you about
lung cancer diagnosis as it comes out.
Q - `Margaret Kaczor, Analyst, William Blair & Company `
Great. Then on the imaging side, there is a few angles to come at it. And so, I think, Gary, you
have talked about delivering therapy through energy, potentially. So I guess what would that
mean to you? Then, has anything changed on your view of your willingness to bring in house
either radio or chemiluminescent agents or do you prefer partnerships. And that would include
the ureter agent that you talked about earlier?
A - `Gary Guthart, President, CEO `
Yes. So there are two different concepts in the question. So I will just tease them apart a little bit.
On the imaging side of showing surgeons more of what's going on during surgery, we really view
that in three different buckets. There is better hardware, better imaging sensors and
endoscopes. We have been working on that diligently and releasing updates to that product line
on a pretty regular cadence.There is analytics and image processing that is more software based. We have also been working
hard on that and have been increasing our investments.
And the last one are better sensors, better contrast agents, like the ureter agent.
In some of them, we do the primary part of the design in house. In other places, for example in
agents, we have an active licensing and co-development effort going on. So we really partner
that activity with others. And a little bit of everything in between.
So that was the imaging side. On the therapeutic side, pretty early to tell. I do think the flexible
robotics platform, the computer-controlled catheters have the ability to ultimately deliver therapy.
What exactly that looks like will be disease state dependent and is likely to involve different kinds
of technology over time. Too early for us yet to call where that ends up.
Q - `Margaret Kaczor, Analyst, William Blair & Company `
Great. Then one more, maybe for Marshall. How should we think about the cadence of the $80
million in spending? And why shouldn't we continue to expect it to go up in 2018 and beyond,
given the opportunities in this long-term horizon that we've been talking about? Thank you.
A - `Marshall Mohr, SVP, CFO `
Yes. So to be clear, what we said was we would accelerate spending of $80 million. We would
expect to more normalize our margins in future years.
As far as the cadence within the year, spending, particularly as it relates to engineering and
prototypes and so forth, can be pretty lumpy. So we haven't given you specific guidance. But I
think you should expect it will go up as we go through the year.
Q - `Margaret Kaczor, Analyst, William Blair & Company `
Thank you.
Operator
`Tycho Peterson, Analyst, JPMorgan, JPMorgan.
Q - `Tycho Peterson, Analyst, JPMorgan `
A question on expectations around Xi for the year. For starters, you mentioned historical seasonal
patterns. It sounds like you are not factoring any ACA-associated slowdown in the first half of the
year. Then in the back half of the year, how should we think about maybe incremental placements
ahead of the Sp rollout?
A - `Gary Guthart, President, CEO `
For starters, the first question on ACA, our sense here is that utilization probably won't change
very much. We don't have a crystal ball. But so far the early indications are that will be stable.
On the capital placement side, highly uncertain for us. We don't know. Early indications are that it
is pretty stable. But depending on how policy ultimately is implemented, that uncertainty may roll
through some capital planning processes for some of our customers. I wouldn't call it out yet, not
clear that's happening. But it is a potential.
With regard to timing in the year and Sp, I will let Marshall answer that question.A - `Marshall Mohr, SVP, CFO `
From an Sp perspective, what we have been communicating is consistent with what I will say now,
which is that Sp will contribute very little in terms of revenue in 2017 and will be more of a factor in
2018.
Q - `Tycho Peterson, Analyst, JPMorgan `
But in terms of driving incremental upgrades to Xi ahead of the rollout, should we think about any
dynamic there?
A - `Marshall Mohr, SVP, CFO `
Not really, no.
Q - `Tycho Peterson, Analyst, JPMorgan `
And will we get Sp data at SAGES? When can we start to think about some early user feedback?
A - `Gary Guthart, President, CEO `
We should have the opportunity to close this clinical feasibility trial and then initiate the IDE head
and neck trial in the first half of the year. And as the one closes and the other opens, we will be in
a better position to share with you that feedback.
Q - `Tycho Peterson, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Okay. Then last one on hernia. Can you just give us an update of where we are from a
penetration standpoint in terms of both inguinal and ventral and how you think about the relative
growth rates this year?
A - `Calvin Darling, Senior Director Finance & IR `
Yes, generally speaking, we think we are still in fairly early stages on both the ventral and the
inguinal opportunity. You saw we talked about the results in general surgery, again, up over 30%
this year. Obviously, we added a lot of new procedures and we gained confidence as the year
went on, I think, regarding our opportunity on the inguinal side with demonstrated stickiness on
surgeons and growth in that category.
But it is still difficult for us to assess how many of, let's call it, the close to 300,000 ventral hernias
and 700,000 inguinals will ultimately be robotic candidates. But we feel pretty confident that it is
going to be driving growth for us into 2017 and beyond.
Q - `Tycho Peterson, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
`Bob Hopkins, Analyst, BofA Merrill Lynch, Bank of America.
Q - `Bob Hopkins, Analyst, BofA Merrill Lynch `
So Gary, I have a question for you. From a signaling perspective, this quarter is very interesting
because you are accelerating $80 million expend and you are announcing a $2 billion ASR. Sothose are two very positive signaling events, in my view. I was just wondering, can you just help us
understand why now is the time to be doing these things? What are the things you are seeing to
give you confidence in the business, or am I not phrasing it correctly, that the $2 billion ASR is
really just to offset the spending?
A - `Gary Guthart, President, CEO `
I think -- our process to get to both of these, I will just describe how did we get to accelerating
investment and how do we get to the ASR. With regard to accelerated investment, I think we are
feeling good and increasing confidence in the use of our products in general surgery. I think while
we are still in early innings, I think the early results have been really strong. So that has been
positive for us.
As we look at where we sit on the competitive landscape with regard to technologies and
opportunities both here at home and abroad, we also are feeling confident that we have a very
good technology pipeline and our positioning is quite good.
And so as we look at then the opportunity to invest, our first priority is fund the existing business.
The second priority is look for organic growth opportunities that can drive profitable growth in the
future. That's where that $80 million is going. And we evaluate platforms and we look at total
available market for those platforms, estimate what the profitability might be. And stack rank
them and then invest.
We look for acquisitions as a third priority or things that can add to our Company. And if we have
excess capital, then opportunities to return it to shareholders.
And so, we walked through that process this year carefully and robustly. And that led to both the
pull forward of investment because we think there is opportunity and momentum and the
opportunity to return some cash through the buybacks. And so, those time together more by
process than by some algorithm.
Q - `Bob Hopkins, Analyst, BofA Merrill Lynch `
Great, that's very helpful. Then, just the one thing I wanted to follow up on is -- not asking you to
commit here. But at least is there the potential for 2018 to be a year where you have three new
product platforms, Sp, potentially biopsy. And then on the new imaging agent side? Does that
potential at least exist?
A - `Gary Guthart, President, CEO `
I think Sp is the furthest along of the new platforms. And I think that Sp in 2018 has the
opportunity to do some interesting things, should we execute well on a regulatory pathway.
Molecules -- the molecule side of imaging is further out than 2018. There are some interesting
things in imaging that are in 2018. They are more software and hardware related as opposed to
the molecular component.
On the diagnostic platform, we are not ready yet to anchor revenue expectations. I would not
expect much in the 2018 time frame, although I think we're going to make great progress on the
technology and the learning on it.
Q - `Bob Hopkins, Analyst, BofA Merrill Lynch `
Wonderful, thanks very much.Operator
`David Lewis, Analyst, Morgan Stanley, Morgan Stanley.
Q - `David Lewis, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Gary, I am just trying to put the spending into perspective here. It seems hard to us that on
individual trials you could pull forward the magnitude of spending you are pulling forward. So is it
safe to assume that at least some significant component of this pull forward does relate to a new
platform that you are working on? That is number one.
Then not just the R&D spending, Gary; the other piece was there is commercial spending. Can
you help us understand the areas that you are spending on commercially that are different than
the true R&D investment?
A - `Gary Guthart, President, CEO `
Yes, yes, fair questions. On the first one, absolutely the incremental spend relates to building out
second platforms. Sp has a lot of shared components with Xi. But not entirely shared
components. And so bringing that out. It has a new supply chain, a new set of testing and
manufacturing resources that have to get invested in, in addition to some of the trial work. So
that's the platform.
The diagnostics side we're really excited about and we think there is great opportunity at home
and abroad. And so we are earlier in that platform. But we are doing what amounts to the design
and early trial investments there. Then there are clinical and economic data investments on our
existing platforms, particularly in Europe and in Asia where we think reimbursement or access,
other kinds of access, payer access are important. And that's been data that we are happy to go
invest and collect.
So it really is a mix of those elements, as you called out in the question.
Moving on to your second piece, remind me the second half of your question.
Q - `David Lewis, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Just commercial, the non-developmental piece (multiple speakers) the commercial development.
A - `Gary Guthart, President, CEO `
Yes, yes, commercial investment. A good example of that is we think there is real opportunity for
us in the major markets in Europe if we can increase our total business footprint.
It is not just commercializing sales folks. But some of it is sales staff. We have added a seasoned
executive in Germany as a German general manager. We are adding some clinical resources into
Germany as well to round out the team there. I think it makes a lot of sense. Early returns on that
are strong in terms of just their ability to get things done. And so, those kinds of investments
have been going on.
Likewise in places like Japan, where we have been investing in reimbursements. Anticipating
additional reimbursements in 2018, there is some prep work to get done in terms of both the
customer base and commercial, as well as the government side.
Q - `David Lewis, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `And Gary, just a quick second question. On Sp, just to be clear, there are three approvals you
talked about in this call, head and neck, urological, as well as TORS. Is it safe to assume those are
the three clinical opportunities here near term? What I'm trying to get at is can you not launch Sp
in more of a full commercial way until you have one of those three approvals, or that's not
necessarily true?
A - `Gary Guthart, President, CEO `
So those are the first ideas. Which one comes first will depend on how regulatory bodies view it. I
suspect urology will actually be earlier than the other ones, just based on existing data and past
history.
We think those are good opportunities for the platform. They are not the only opportunities for
the platform. So we are pursuing those, the work up to those in parallel, because we think it gives
our customers the best financial flexibility to take advantage of the capital investment they would
make in the platform. Does that make sense?
Q - `David Lewis, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
It makes perfect sense. Thank you. So much.
Operator
`Amit Hazan, Analyst, Citigroup, Citi.
Q - `Amit Hazan, Analyst, Citigroup `
I want to just come back to the R&D spend, the increased investment spend, for one second, just
to clarify 2018 in particular. And this goes off, Gary, what I think you talked about earlier this month
at the investor conference, that tailing off in 2018.
And I think about that as I think about Sp, maybe that launch coming out so you get some savings
there. But diagnostics, certainly imaging, seems like new and ongoing spend. So I wanted to
maybe try to get you to clarify why that increased spending is just one year and not more than
that. And in terms of just the R&D as a % of sales, why wouldn't that just continue into next year?
It seems like a lot of your spending is actually going to be ongoing.
A - `Gary Guthart, President, CEO `
Yes. So what we are describing is that we are growing R&D spend. And it is really operations, not
just R&D. So operating expenses unusually in 2017 as a run rate. And we think it will return to more
normal growth rates in 2018.
There is a couple of reasons that we think that is so. One of them is the biggest spend on a
platform launch is actually the year before launch. That is where both you are building a lot of
product, you are doing a lot of validations, you're getting ready, you are doing a lot of the
staging. So that bolus will go through.
We have been investing sequentially over time a fair amount more in imaging. So imaging in 2017
isn't a huge bolus; it is a ratable growth. And you are right; we expect revenue growth 2017 to
2018. So we expect growth in total OpEx expense in 2018. It is just that the growth rate will
modulate relative to 2017.So what we are trying to communicate to everybody here is that the growth rate in 2017 is
unusual. We would expect revenue growth in 2018. We would expect op expense growth rate in
2018 as well. But more aligned with historical norms. In other words, the growth rate in 2017 is not
the new normal.
Q - `Amit Hazan, Analyst, Citigroup `
That's helpful. Then, gynecology would be my second question. The 3.5% growth for the year,
that is better than we expected, too. I think that is another year of improving growth for your
second year in a row.
And you seem to be cautioning a little bit that some of this is not sustainable, that something like
migration of procedures to GYN oncologists might run into (force). And it strikes me as just a little
bit too early or a little bit early to be to be concerned about that trend. And so, it seems like a
newer trend to me. I am wanting to get you a little bit to comment on whether that is a real
concern for 2017 or whether you are just putting out potential risk factors for the year.
A - `Gary Guthart, President, CEO `
Gynecology is one of those mature procedure categories in the United States. If you look at
benign hysterectomy, the largest procedure in the category, over 80% of those procedures are
performed in some minimally invasive fashion, whether it be with laparoscopy, vaginal techniques,
or robotic. And it has been that way the last two or three years.
So in that sense, we would expect -- our starting thought would be we are likely to move with the
market in that scenario. So if you look back a couple of years ago at 2014, that's what happened.
We declined low single digits. We think the total number of benign hysterectomies being
performed is probably gradually declining in response to payer pushbacks on that procedure,
encouraging other treatment modalities.
So 2015, that moved to the other side of 1% growth, like I said in the comments. This year, it
ramped up to about 3% growth. And you are right. I think it is largely reflecting a trend towards a
higher proportion of the cases being performed by the gynecologic oncologist, a set of surgeons
that are more aligned with robotics. So that has been a benefit.
So our guidance would suggest we would expect this to moderate a little bit in 2017. We don't
have a perfect crystal ball in this area. But at some point we think the more complex cases are
the ones being referred and you hit a certain level where you're getting very adequate clinical
outcomes with the other minimally invasive approaches. So we will see how it plays out.
Q - `Amit Hazan, Analyst, Citigroup `
Thanks, guys.
Operator
`Tao Levy, Analyst, Wedbush Securities, Wedbush.
Q - `Tao Levy, Analyst, Wedbush Securities `
Just maybe you could update us on the status of China and the quota, next steps there, as well
as what is needed to get the Xi approved in China.
A - `Marshall Mohr, SVP, CFO `Yes. So two parts to the question. On the quota side, the quota is dependent upon the approval
of their budget, the Chinese government budget. And then allocations are then done down
through MOH and then to the hospitals and so on and so forth until they get to which hospitals
can buy specifically da Vinci product.
They have taken the first step. They have approved -- they did approve the budget at the end of
2016. So in December. However, they did not take it further to the allocations to specifics as to
who gets to buy a da Vinci or how many will be bought. That process is still in motion. It is not
something we can control and, frankly, we don't have great visibility as to what's going on behind
the curtains to get there.
And so at this point, we sit and wait for the next quota to be approved. I think what we have also
told people is if you look at the last time quota was approved, it still takes some time for the
hospitals to actually complete the tender process and buy product. So if you are putting together
a model, looking at the last time quota was approved in 2013, most of the systems were bought
near the end of 2015. So the likelihood that there is going to be a lot of revenue coming out of a
quota in 2017 is not very high.
Q - `Tao Levy, Analyst, Wedbush Securities `
And on Xi?
A - `Marshall Mohr, SVP, CFO `
Xi is in process. It is a long approval process. We will tell you when we get it, which is our typical
pattern of disclosure. We don't know where it is in the process.
A - `Gary Guthart, President, CEO `
Yes. We are encouraged. I don't see a major impediment to Xi clearance in China. And in general
we are encouraged by the response of the market to robotic surgery and to Intuitive in China. So
I think in general, with the caveat that Marshall has outlined, as a whole we look positively on the
opportunity.
Q - `Tao Levy, Analyst, Wedbush Securities `
Great. Thanks.
Operator
`Larry Keusch, Analyst, Raymond James and Associates, Inc., Raymond James.
Q - `Larry Keusch, Analyst, Raymond James and Associates, Inc. `
Marshall, in your -- excuse me, Gary, in your prepared comments, I think I heard this correctly. But
you were referencing long-term investments and you were talking about investments for
products and services. And I just want to make sure I heard that correctly. And if that is correct,
what were you thinking about when you were talking about past services?
A - `Gary Guthart, President, CEO `
Yes. We provide a series of things now to the customer that are an ecosystem around the
product itself. So the simple things you think about are things like maintenance services. But we
increasingly have access to interesting data on the use of devices, our devices, benchmarkingIn the last couple of years, we have partnered with hospitals to provide that set of data to them
and to help them improve their systems. And that's been a real positive for them and for us. And
so that's what I meant when I said services. I think those data opportunities and benchmarking
opportunities increase in the future.
Q - `Larry Keusch, Analyst, Raymond James and Associates, Inc. `
Okay. Great. Then, I just want to pick up on some comments that you made earlier in the month
and specifically get your thoughts on as you talk about, again, some of this imaging technology
and the ability to perhaps be involved in pre-procedure planning. Is the way to think about that,
that would really be done with the surgeon interfacing with the imaging capabilities and the
machine itself, or is there an element there where Intuitive can insert itself more from a service
perspective in perhaps procedure planning?
Then, the other question around that was just getting your thoughts on where you think machine
learning goes as it relates to robotic surgery.
A - `Gary Guthart, President, CEO `
Sure, I think to the first question of what -- does it change where we interact at the hospital, I think
in the near term the answer is yes. But only a little bit.
I think that there is an opportunity to look at things like preoperative images that patients are
required to do as part of their diagnostic workup. And to be able to use and do some
postprocessing and machine learning on those preoperative images to improve surgeons'
navigation or other capabilities during the case. That looks pretty interesting. That is some of the
technology I showed you a few weeks ago at JPMorgan.
I think in the near term that's how we think about it. In the long term, I do think that there are
interesting opportunities for analytics as it relates to the workings of a robotic surgery program or
a minimally invasive surgery program that are a little bit outside of what's happening in a single
case. And that may change and provide an opportunity for Intuitive to engage conversations with
the hospital in a little more broad manner. But I think those are -- we are in early days of those
conversations.
Q - `Larry Keusch, Analyst, Raymond James and Associates, Inc. `
Okay. Great. And last quick one, just, Calvin, I know you made a mention on lobectomy. But again
any color that you could provide as to the uptake and perhaps the opportunity around that.
A - `Calvin Darling, Senior Director Finance & IR `
Again, like I said, I think Q4 and really throughout the year in 2016 was a positive period of time
for us. It is still fairly early in that category. We are focused, the field team, more on the general
surgery opportunity. But there is increasing sets of people engaging some of the key thoracic
surgeons getting some of the newer technology.
I mentioned the Xi system and 30-millimeter staplers in those hands and gaining that experience
and building volumes from there is something we are focused on. But I think the value is high in
that procedure and the opportunity is significant in the US. But when you look outside the US to
Europe and particularly Asia with higher lung cancer rates, it is pretty interesting.
Q - `Larry Keusch, Analyst, Raymond James and Associates, Inc. `Great, thank you.
Operator
Larry Biegelsen, Wells Fargo.
Q - `Craig Bijou, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities, LLC `
It is actually `Craig Bijou, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities, LLC on for Larry. Thanks for taking the questions. I wanted to start, Calvin, with
your comments on, as part of your procedure guidance, the moderating international growth.
And I want to ask what is the risk to procedure growth, given some of the slowdown in European
systems sales and balancing that with the strong procedure growth that you guys have said that
you are seeing in Asia.
So I guess in the case where your European procedure -- or system sales don't pick up again and
maybe the China tender or the China quota doesn't come on board as quickly as you expect,
what is the risk to that international procedure growth of 20% plus?
A - `Calvin Darling, Senior Director Finance & IR `
Yes, I mentioned it as one of the bullet points in there for the outlook for -- a moderating outlook
on overall procedure growth. Internationally, I think the areas I pointed out specifically were for
China. Marshall talked a little bit about the quota there. The fact is that the systems we do have in
China are some of the (technical difficulty) productive systems we have. And our ability to
continue to grow procedures now is somewhat paced by our ability to get more capacity in the
field. So that can be a factor in 2017.
Then in Japan, we very successfully ramped up the procedures where we have reimbursement,
the prostatectomy procedure and earlier stage of a smaller category in the partial nephrectomy.
So I think as those procedures have ramped, you have got less room. And we are awaiting
additional procedures in 2018, which will be required to sustain growth. Both those markets, I
would say, are -- we have got very positive long-term views on. But some specific factors
impacting 2017.
A - `Gary Guthart, President, CEO `
Operator, we have time for one last question.
Operator
`Richard Newitter, Analyst, Leerink Partners, Leerink Partners.
Q - `Richard Newitter, Analyst, Leerink Partners `
Thanks for squeezing me in. I had two. Just, Marshall, just on the gross margin factors in the
guidance for 2017, I heard FX, I heard the med tech tax refund benefit not repeating. Could you
just elaborate on the last two. And then I have one follow-up on thoracic?
A - `Gary Guthart, President, CEO `
I don't think we have a follow-up. So, Marshall, take that one and we'll go from there.
A - `Marshall Mohr, SVP, CFO `Yes, I think the things that can affect the gross margin are -- like we said, we had some
experience in the quarter with selling the lower-cost systems in cost-sensitive markets where we
saw some success. So we will see if that continues. It is an (N of 1). But we will see what happens.
Certainly, new product introductions and new products have lower margins that our older
products and so that also has an impact as we increase the sales of vessel sealing and stapling.
And even though we have cost reduced them somewhat, they are still higher -- or lower margin
than our historical products. And so as we increase the sale of newer products, that will have a
negative impact.
Then the other item that we mentioned was repair costs associated with scopes. And we
continue to work, as Gary said, iterate the imaging capability and the hardware. And as we do, we
will reduce the cost, as well as improve the repairability. But that is a little ways off and so we're --
it will happen incrementally over time.
A - `Gary Guthart, President, CEO `
All right, Richard. Calvin says take your follow-up.
Q - `Richard Newitter, Analyst, Leerink Partners `
All right, appreciate that. Thank you. Just on thoracic, is there any -- can you just maybe talk about
the type of surgeon that you need to target, the kind of -- and the phasing of it, because I know
there are some general surgeons that perform the procedures and then you obviously have
cardiothoracic surgeons and specialists? Can you just describe who you are targeting and when
and can that potentially give us a sense as to when we might begin to see more of an inflection
point in the thoracic lobectomy segment? Thanks.
A - `Gary Guthart, President, CEO `
Yes, I will answer that one. I think that we are still in pretty early part of the market option for
thoracic surgery. In general, it has been engaging thought leaders in thoracic surgery, some of
whom are minimally invasive surgeons today and some of whom are predominantly open
surgeons. There is a mix.
It tends less to be the generalist here and more to be the thought leadership in thoracic as a
whole.
Part of I think what has been pacing growth here is just completing the product set for efficiency
and speed of case. I think we are very close now to having complete product sets, things like 30-
millimeter staplers and so on. And that has helped. So I think as that product set completes, as
we proliferate Xis in the world, that has made adoption more likely and easier.
I will turn to our close. That was our last question. As we have said previously, while we focus on
financial metrics such as revenues, profits. And cash flow during these conference calls, our
organizational focus remains on increasing value by enabling surgeons to improve surgical
outcomes and reduce surgical trauma.
We have built our Company to take surgery beyond the limits of the human hand. And I assure
you we remain committed to driving the vital few things that truly make a difference.
This concludes today's call. We thank you for your participation and support on this extraordinary
journey to improve surgery and I look forward to speaking with you again on the next call.Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, as you just heard, today's conference has concluded. Thank you for your
participation. You may now disconnect.