Q4 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your patience in holding, and welcome to the Intuitive Fourth
Quarter of 2020 Earnings Release. At this time, all of your participant phone lines are in a listen-
only mode and later there will be an opportunity for your questions. (Operator Instructions) Just a
brief reminder, today's conference is being recorded.
Now I'm happy to turn the conference over to Head of Investor Relations, `Philip Kim, Head of Investor Relations.
`Philip Kim, Head of Investor Relations `
Good afternoon, and welcome to Intuitive's Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call. With me
today, we have Gary Guthart, our CEO; and Marshall Mohr, our Chief Financial Officer. Before we
begin, I would like to inform you that comments mentioned on today's call may be deemed to
contain forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or
implied as a result of certain risks or uncertainties.
These risks and uncertainties are described in detail in our Securities and Exchange Commission
filings, including our most recent Form 10-K filed on February 7th, 2020 and Form 10-Q filed on
October 19th, 2020. Our SEC filings can be found through our website or at the SEC's website.
Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
Please note that this conference call will be available for audio replay on our website at
intuitive.com on the Latest Events section under our Investor Relations page. Today's press
release and supplementary financial data tables have been posted to our website. Today's
format will consist of providing you with highlights of our fourth quarter results as described in our
press release announced earlier today, followed by a question-and-answer session. Gary will
present the quarter's business and operational highlights. Marshall will provide a review of our
financial results. Then I will discuss procedure and clinical highlights. And finally, we will host a
question-and-answer session.
With that I will turn it over to Gary.
`Gary S. Guthart, Chief Executive Officer `Thank you for joining us today. Our fourth quarter capped the year in which the pandemic
challenged our customers and our business that highlighted some core strengths for the
company, introduced some obstacles to overcome and triggered some changes for us. To put
the year and quarter in context, let me first review some of the numbers.
Procedures grew 6% year-over-year for the fourth quarter and 1% for the full year over 2019
resulting in approximately one and a quarter million procedures in 2020. We placed 326 systems
in the quarter down from 336 systems in Q4 of 2019.
For the full year we placed 936 systems in 2020 down from 1,119 systems in 2019. Finally, revenue
fell 3% in 2020 as the result of delays in surgical procedures as hospitals focused on treating
COVID patients. Digging a little deeper, our core business remains healthy. After the first surge of
COVID abated during this past summer, our customers returned to more routine use of our
systems and solutions.
We believe that the Intuitive ecosystem enabled increased access to and practice of high quality
minimally invasive surgery, which may have help hospitals conserve valuable intensive care
resources during the pandemic. Despite pressure on utilization of our systems due to COVID, our
hospital customers continue to invest in building their Intuitive's robotics programs with additional
systems evidenced by a 7% increase in the clinical installed base in 2020.
We saw committed customer strengthening their programs likely due to their analysis of how well
the Intuitive ecosystem satisfied their quadruple aim objectives, better outcomes, better care
team experiences, better patient experiences and lower total cost to treat per patient episode.
Lastly, we believe our investments in our analytics programs have helped customers routinely
analyze their performance, supporting their programmatic insights in the year. Our confidence in
our core business and our long-term opportunity remains robust in spite of near-term uncertainty,
which is as follows.
First, the pandemic is resurgent in many regions powered now by more contagious variance.
While hospitals have better protocols to manage patients today than they did earlier in 2020. Our
weekly surgical data in December 2020 and continuing today shows another clamp down on
surgeries.
Furthermore, we believe diagnostic procedures are slowing in hard hit regions. With diagnostic
procedures running significantly below pre-pandemic levels, patients in hospitals will acutely feel
the impact through disease progression and the more complex therapies necessary when
patients do return for care. This delay in diagnostic pipelines will likely take several quarters to
resolve even after the threat of COVID begins to abate.
Second, we know that future new capital installs are highly sensitive to utilization rates. Delayed
surgeries will also impact the growth of surgical departments pressuring new system installs until
excess capacity is consumed. Third, in countries where the government pays the healthcare bill,
budget strain and economic fallout from COVID may impact healthcare spending in new and
variable ways in different countries.
Lastly, the trend that started prior to the pandemic for increased data requirements and longer
clearance timelines from regulators in the United States and Europe for our industry has
continued this year. Taken together, these obstacles make predictions for the next several
quarters difficult.As I mentioned earlier, 2020 has broadly eliminated some longer-term trends in healthcare that
validate our thesis. The increased pressure on healthcare systems to conserve acute care
resources for the sickest patients may have accelerated investments that enable patients to get
the care they need with fast recovery, minimizing consumption of scarce hospital resources, and
reducing complications. The compounding value of analyzing real time data and offline healthcare
data to drive insights to drive better care has become obvious this year.
Lastly, we saw an acceleration of remote technology used to enable proctoring learning and
analysis. I've heard it said that in good times we develop ourselves to become who we want to
be. While hard times reveal who we really are. In the year, we set our priorities based on our
values. We implemented community relief and customer relief, launched our extended use
instruments program, mobilized local and remote training resources to support customers
differently and continue to listen carefully to our customers to best understand their needs.
We've seen positive customer response to this approach, which is reflected in our net promoter
score. You can find more information on these scores in our JPMorgan Healthcare Conference
presentation from this month posted on our website. Over the past several years, we've been
building our capabilities in different countries to better serve their healthcare systems. I'd like to
take a moment to take you through how we performed outside the United States in the year.
Turning first to Asia. Our business in Japan is moving beyond urology, given reimbursements for a
broad slate of procedures obtained in Japan in 2018 and 2020. Government hospitals in Japan
have been conserving resources for COVID care and the pandemic has introduced noticeable
delays as the health care system reacts to outbreaks.
In Korea, our business continues to be dynamic with an innovation oriented customer group
adopting new products like our da Vinci SP. In China, we saw accelerated customer acceptance of
our partnership with Fosun Pharma and our products with growth and procedures and the
business overall outpacing our pre-pandemic plans. In 2020, China emerged as our number two
procedure market.
Turning to Europe, our team in Germany has had success in engaging larger German hospital
groups with increased system placements broadening our market access. Constraints on elective
surgery have been implemented assertively in Germany in light of COVID. In Germany, France,
UK, Italy, and the Nordics, our goals have been to broaden da Vinci use beyond urology. Progress
there in has been hampered significantly by COVID.
Lastly, we see relatively low public sector reimbursements in Europe for benign procedures.
Innovations from Intuitive like da Vinci has in our extended use instruments are providing an
option for more price-sensitive customers in these markets.
With regard to our innovation and product engines, we spent time walking through our progress
at the JP Morgan Healthcare Conference this month and our presentation is available online at
our website intuitive.com. I'd recommend to the interested listeners to review of those materials
for greater insight into our progress.
Summarizing briefly here, we're making good progress and advancing many elements of our
ecosystem, including our advanced instruments, deepening our imaging and informatics
programs, including our augmented reality program, Iris, and extending the launches of our new
platforms. We grew the install base and procedures for our single port platform da Vinci SP. We're
focused on advancing clinical indications for SP in several regions as well as extending its
instrument and accessory portfolio. For our flexible robotics platform, Ion, we saw strong clinicalfourth quarter as catheter demand outpaced our forecasting models and the need for important
quality improvement implementations and COVID quarantines hampered our production.
We are currently shipping Ion product and expect to meet the demand curve in the first half of
2021. Before Marshall takes you through our finances in detail, I would like to touch on our financial
strategy. Our operating model withstood the strains of 2020 well, starting with our decision
several years ago to shift to greater flexibility and system placement models, the incorporation of
sales, leasing and risk shared models allowed us to meet customer's needs during a disruptive
time.
Our investments in advanced instruments, including stapling and energy have been fruitful with
growing revenues, improving margins and growing customer appreciation for advanced
instruments. We've been investing capital in our manufacturing methods to increase quality and
lower our costs, which in turn has allowed us to extend the savings to our customers to allow
them greater flexibility in deploying our products in more cost sensitive environments.
This has triggered a virtuous cycle that allows us greater volume, which in turn gives us greater
ability to invest in higher volume processes. We'll continue to invest in this cycle going forward.
We believe we are still in the early innings of a long opportunity to substantially improve their
quadruple aim and acute medical interventions using robotics, computing, advanced imaging and
informatics. As a result, we continue to invest in our innovation engines to create and pursue
these opportunities.
In closing, our priorities for 2021 are as follows. First, we'll support our customer's recovery of
surgery during and post-pandemic. Second, we'll focus on outstanding regional performance.
Third, we'll advance our priority programs and launches, SP, Ion, imaging and analytics, including
new indications and finally, continued expansion of clinical, economic, and analytical evidence
base for key procedures in countries.
And I'll turn the call over to Marshall, who will take you through financial matters in greater detail.
`Marshall L. Mohr, Chief Financial Officer `
Good afternoon. I would describe the highlights of our performance on a non-GAAP or pro forma
basis. I will also summarize our GAAP performance later in my prepared remarks. A reconciliation
between our pro forma and GAAP results is posted on our website.
Revenue in procedures are consistent with our preliminary press release of January 13. Key
business metrics for the fourth quarter were as follows. Fourth quarter 2020 procedures
increased approximately 6% compared with the fourth quarter of 2019 and increased
approximately 10% compared with last quarter.
Fourth quarter system placements of 326 systems decreased 3% compared with 336 systems
last year and increased 67% compared to 195 systems last quarter. We expanded our installed
base of da Vinci systems over last year by 7% to approximately 5,989 systems.
This growth rate compares with 8% in the last quarter and 12% last year. Utilization of clinical
systems in the field, measured by procedures per system, declined approximately 2% compared
with last year and increased 8% compared with last quarter.
The impact of COVID on da Vinci procedures vary by region. Resurgence of COVID in parts of
Europe had significant impacts on procedures including in Italy, UK, Nordics and France. While the
impact of COVID on procedures in the Asia-Pacific region, including China, Japan and Korea wasfar less significant. In the US, fourth quarter procedure growth was impacted by the COVID
resurgence resulting in 5% year-over-year growth compared to 7% growth in the third quarter.
Resurgence in US and Europe was more acute and had a greater impact on procedures late in
the quarter, a trend that continued into January. The impact of a resurgence can be significant.
For example, in California, the fourth quarter COVID resurgence turned a year-over-year da Vinci
procedure growth in October of 8% to a year-over-year decline of 6% in December.
We also believe that reduced diagnosis reflecting patient concern over COVID exposure has
impacted certain procedures globally. This has had its most pronounced effect on
prostatectomies. Despite the fact that hospitals are better equipped to handle COVID patients
today compared to the outset of the pandemic, COVID-19 resurgence is like those currently
being experienced in parts of Europe and US have challenged hospital care capabilities and have
negatively impacted da Vinci procedures.
In addition, delays in diagnosis and treatment of underlying conditions will also continue to
negatively impact da Vinci procedures. Uncertainties in this COVID environment are not
predictable. And the vaccine rollout and its impact on controlling COVID spread is also not
predictable.
Given these uncertainties, we are not providing procedure guidance at this time. Philip will
provide additional procedure commentary later in this call. Fourth quarter capital placements
exceeded our expectations, reflecting several factors. In certain cases, hospitals exhausted 2020
budgets and spend capacities. And in some cases hospitals purchased systems in preparation for
post-pandemic environment.
We also experienced a higher level of trade-ins of SI systems for fourth generation systems,
reflecting hospital desire to standardize their fleet and to avail themselves to fourth generation
technology, lower cost extended use instruments. Looking forward, we see the following capital
revenue headwinds. Utilization declined 2% year-over-year resulting in excess system capacity at
hospitals.
We expect customers to fill existing system capacity before purchasing additional capital. Some
of the fourth quarter capital placements reflected hospitals exhausting 2020 budgets as
budgetary set for 2021 hospitals could reduce their capital spend particularly as COVID strains
hospital profitability.
We expect leasing to continue to increase as a percentage of overall placements.
Macroeconomic conditions created by COVID could also impact hospital capital spending. And as
we face competition in various markets, we may experience longer selling cycles and price
pressures.
Additional revenue statistics and trends are as follows. Total fourth quarter revenue was 1,329
million, representing a 4% increase from last year and a 23% increase from last quarter. Fourth
quarter revenue benefited from US customer stocking of extended use instruments and higher
than expected system placements. Leasing represented 37% of current quarter placements
compared with 35% last quarter.
Fourth quarter placements included some larger IDN transactions where the IDN prefers
purchase transactions. Excluding those transactions, leasing as a percentage of total placements
would have been several percentage points higher. In an environment of COVID-19 as economic
pressures increase, we anticipate more customers will seek leasing or alternative financing
arrangements than reflected in historical run rates. Approximately half of the systems placed inthe fourth quarter involve trade-ins, which is higher than the 40% last quarter and higher than the
average over the last couple of years.
Trade-in activity can fluctuate and be difficult to predict. Fourth quarter average selling prices
declined to $1.43 million from $1.61 million last year and $1.55 million in the third quarter. The
decrease relative to last year reflects a lower mix of systems placed in China and Japan in a
higher proportion of trade transactions.
The decrease relative to last quarter reflects a higher proportion of trade-in transactions in a
higher mix of indirect market placements. We recognized 14 million of lease buyout revenue in
the fourth quarter compared with 17 million last quarter and 34 million last year.
Lease buyout revenue has very significantly quarter-to-quarter and will likely continue to do so.
Instrument and accessory revenue per procedure increased to approximately $2,060 per
procedure compared with $1,910 per procedure in the third quarter of 2020 and $1,980 realized
in the fourth quarter of last year.
The entirety of the increase compared to the third quarter reflects US hospital stocking extended
use instruments. We launched extended use instruments early in the quarter in the US and mid
quarter in Europe. We will launch extended use instruments in other markets in 2021 and 2022
depending on regulatory requirements.
Going forward, we expect customers to adjust their instrument buying patterns and reduce their
inventory levels to reflect the additional uses per instrument. In addition, extended use
instruments and lower instrument pricing will result in lower I&A revenue per procedure to
Intuitive.
The impact and timing of customer buying patterns and lower per use revenue will likely begin to
impact revenues in the first quarter, but will depend on customer inventory practices and
procedure volumes. While we expect price elasticity associated with extended use instruments to
enable greater penetration into available markets, that benefit will be delayed by COVID in
otherwise will take time.
12 of the systems placed in the fourth quarter were SP systems reflecting continued measured
rollout of SP and the impact of COVID-19. Our installed base of SP systems is now 69, eight in
Korea and 61 in the US. Our rollout of the SP Surgical System will continue to be measured putting
systems in the hands of experienced da Vinci users, while we pursue additional indications and
optimize training pathways in our supply chain.
We expect to initiate first cases associated with a US colorectal clinical trial this quarter. We placed
four Ion systems in the quarter, bringing the installed base to 36 systems. Ion system placements
and procedures are excluded from our overall system and procedure counts. Ion system
placements were affected by supply chain issues described by Gary earlier in the call.
We expect to remediate the supply issues in the first half of 2021. Our rollout of Ion will continue
to be measured while we optimize training pathways in our supply chain. Procedures under the
PRECISE study are expected to complete in the second quarter of 2021. Outside the US, we
placed 130 systems in the fourth quarter compared with 140 in the fourth quarter of 2019 and 79
systems last quarter. Current quarter system placements included 54 into Europe, 22 into Japan
and 13 into China compared with 54 into Europe, 26 into Japan and 39 into China in the fourth
quarter of 2019.System placements into China In the fourth quarter of 2019 were higher as hospitals accelerated
tenders in anticipation of the possibility of higher tariffs. Moving onto gross margin and operating
expenses. Pro forma gross margin for the fourth quarter of 2020 was 69.7% compared with 72.2%
for the fourth quarter 2019 and 70.2% last quarter. The fourth quarter of 2020 included higher
period costs associated with lower production and higher excess and obsolete inventory charges.
The decrease relative to the fourth quarter of 2019 reflects higher period costs associated with
lower production, higher excess and obsolete inventory charges and lower system ASPs. As
revenues are pressured by COVID-19, production levels may operate at below normal levels,
which may result in higher labor costs and under-absorbed overhead and reduced product
margins. In addition, product and customer mix fluctuate quarter-to-quarter and could cause
fluctuations in gross margins.
Pro forma operating expenses decreased 6% compared with the fourth quarter of 2019 and
increased 11% compared with the third quarter of 2020. The fourth quarter of 2020 include a $25
million contribution to the Intuitive Foundation compared with the $5 million contribution in the
fourth quarter of 2019 and no contribution last quarter.
Fourth quarter operating expenses continued to reflect reduced spending on activities directly
impacted by COVID-19 including marketing events, travel, and in-person training as well as lower
variable compensation. These costs will naturally increase as the impact of COVID declines.
We continue to believe we have a unique opportunity to expand the benefits of computer-aided
surgery and acute interventions around the world and we'll continue to invest in the business for
the long term. During this period of COVID, we continue to invest in product development
activities including informatics, advanced imaging, advanced instruments in our Ion and SP
platforms.
Accordingly you should expect the growth rate of R&D expenses in 2021 to significantly exceed
the 2020 growth rate. We expect the growth rate of SG&A expenses to also increase significantly
in 2021 compared to 2020. SG&A spending can be categorized as follows.
Investments in OUS markets will increase over 2020 spend as we expand our capabilities and
investment in clinical data. Variable compensation will increase over 2020 as we reset goals and
targets. Core spending on resources and infrastructure will increase over 2020 to prepare for a
post-COVID environment. Spend on activities impacted by COVID like travel, marketing events,
and in-person training will increase as the impact of COVID declines.
Our pro forma effective tax rate for the fourth quarter was 20.7% compared with our
expectations of 20% to 21% primarily reflecting the geographic mix of income. Our actual tax rate
will fluctuate with changes in the geographic mix of income, changes in taxation made by local
authorities and with the impact of one-time items. Our fourth quarter 2020 pro forma net income
was $436 or $3.58 per share compared with $426 million or $3.48 per share for the fourth quarter
of 2019 and $341 million or $2.77 per share for last quarter.
I will now summarize our GAAP results. GAAP net income was $364 million or $3.02 per share for
the fourth quarter of 2020 compared with GAAP net income of $363 million or $2.99 per share
for the fourth quarter of 2019 and GAAP net income of $317 million or $2.60 per share for last
quarter.
The adjustments between pro forma and GAAP net income are outlined and quantified on our
website and include excess tax benefits associated with employee stock awards, employeestock-based compensation and IP charges, amortization of intangibles and acquisition-related
items and legal settlements.
GAAP net income for the fourth quarter and third quarters of 2020 also included pre-tax gains of
$4.7 million and $61.7 million on our investments in private entities resulting from our purchases of
certain technologies. The EPS impact of these gains, net of tax, was $0.03 per share in the fourth
quarter and $0.39 per share in the third quarter.
These gains are excluded from our pro forma results. We ended the quarter with cash and
investments of $6.9 billion compared with $6.4 billion at September 30, 2020 and $5.8 billion at
December 31st, 2019. The increase in cash in the fourth quarter reflected cash from operations, a
reduction in inventory and overall working capital and stock exercises. We repurchased $34 million
of shares in the quarter with an average price of -- at an average price of $661.10 per share.
And with that, I'd like to turn it over to Philip, who will go over our procedure performance.
`Philip Kim, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Marshall. Our overall fourth quarter procedure growth was 6%, compared to 19%
growth during the fourth quarter of 2019 and 7% growth last quarter. Our Q4 procedure growth
was driven by 5% growth in the US and 11% growth OUS. Resurgence of COVID in the US and
Europe impacted our growth rates in the quarter and we saw procedure growth rates decline as
the quarter progressed particularly late in the quarter.
With respect to key contributors to growth, overall procedures in China and bariatrics in the US
were the largest drivers of procedure growth in Q4. In the US, within general surgery, bariatrics,
coli and hernia were the largest contributors to procedure growth within the quarter. Bariatrics
may be benefiting from certain patients prioritizing weight loss as obesity is a significant COVID
risk factor.
In addition, we continue to receive positive reviews of our SureForm 60 stapler, which provides
surgeons and optimize robotic toolset and feedback for bariatric procedures. In China, procedure
growth accelerated as new systems installed under the quota begin to provide additional
capacity for incremental growth. Q4 China procedures had broad-based growth in urology,
thoracic, general surgery and gynecology.
With respect to our more mature procedure categories in the US, Q4 gynecology procedure
growth was up, reflecting growth in cancer procedures partially offset by declines in benign
procedures. On a worldwide basis, DVP procedures in the fourth quarter declined year-over-year
and had similar trends as we described last quarter. COVID is impacting the diagnostic and
patient pipeline related to DVP.
Now turning to the clinical side of our business. Each quarter on these calls, we highlight certain
recently published studies that we deem to be notable. However to gain a more complete
understanding of the body of evidence, we encourage all stakeholders to thoroughly review the
extensive detail of scientific studies that have been published over the years.
Doctors Clark A. Wilson and Jihad Kaouk from the Cleveland Clinic and colleagues in a paper
published urology described their experience evaluating robotic assisted radical prostatectomy
with da Vinci SP through an extra peritoneal approach and enhanced recovery protocol for same-
day surgery. 60 subjects with organ-confined disease underwent an SP procedure with no
patients requiring conversion to another approach.Median length of stay for all patients was 4.2 hours. 75% of all patients enrolled were discharged
on the day of surgery and 96% of patients discharge within 24 hours. When excluding those
either with surgery after 6 PM, but with pre-planned admissions due to patient preference or
significant comorbidities. The authors concluded a robotic assisted radical prostatectomy with the
da Vinci SP system and extra peritoneal approach can be performed safely and reproducibly as a
same-day surgery.
This publication adds the number of early studies around the emerging SP technology
demonstrating encouraging results within robotic assisted radical prostatectomy as the same-day
surgery and acceptable perioperative functional and short-term oncological outcomes in the
hands of experienced surgeons for the appropriate patients.
We look forward to the growth of the body of evidence around da Vinci SP. Lastly I would like to
highlight that our Second Annual Sustainability Report will be available after the call on our
Investor Relations website.
That concludes our prepared comments. We will now open the call to your questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) First we go to the line of `Amit Hazan, Analyst, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs. Your line is
open.
Q - `Amit Hazan, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thanks very much. Hey, good afternoon, everyone. I thought maybe I'd first go to your comments
in general on hospital capital spending and maybe try to reconcile some of them. I think if you go
back to last week you cited hospitals with seven plus systems were up strongly and here you are
still citing lower utilization is the key headwind. I'm just wondering you otherwise seeing a skewing
towards newer customers and just trying to get my hands around. I have to imagine it's
complicated and hospital systems are different, but how much more color you can provide
around kind of some of these different data points that you provided?
A - `Gary S. Guthart, Chief Executive Officer `
Why don't I jump in Marshall and then I'll kick it back to you. Amit, thanks for the question. When
we were talking about earlier in the month here, we think there is some budget flushing that
happened at the end of 2020. How strong that will be into 2021 that they pull forward spending
that would otherwise normally have been in '21.
Hard to say. Having said that, if you look at where we were winning relative to other priorities,
even if there is some budget pull forward, large customers were -- that already had robotics
were expressing confidence with us, which we think is a positive. The caution we're sending you
now in this call is just that over time there'll be in full operation, which is, there is some excess
capacity in the field because COVID is suppressing procedures. And at some point COVID will lift
and that capacity will be absorbed. Some folks will invest ahead getting ready and being able to
work on backlog and others will be conservative and wait till they consume that capacity.
Forecasting that is hard. And so that's how we're trying to help you navigate through this, but
Marshall please clean up anything that you need to in that answer.
A - `Marshall L. Mohr, Chief Financial Officer `No. You hit it perfectly.
Q - `Amit Hazan, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Okay. And then as my follow-up and then separate on data and digital engagements to-date
again kind of going off of the comment you made last week to hospital analytics and you talked
about the 350 hospitals, 690 engagements. I'm just wondering how much more color you can
give on that in terms of how much of that is that programmatic variety that you talked about that
won't necessarily be monetized versus something that could either improve outcomes or reduce
cost and potentially be monetized. Just any color around those early engagements would be
helpful? Thank you.
A - `Gary S. Guthart, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks for the question. When we're talking about what we shared with you in the talk at
JPMorgan. Most of that is programmatic analysis and it's not so much something that we think is
going to be revenue generating directly. We think that it eliminates the value of our ecosystem
and strong da Vinci programs. And that is a benefit to us. It increases the stick rate. It allows
people to see in a verifiable way within their own data sets, the value they're bringing to give
them action plans to find opportunity for standardization and other kinds of efficiency
improvements.
So it's a high value to the customer and high value to us. Some of the other things that we've
shared with you, for example, Iris, those things are something that will collect revenue for. They
probably won't become huge revenue arms in and of themselves, but they bring value on a per
case basis.
And it's something that we can talk to the customer about in terms of value creation there. They
also strengthen the ecosystem. So I think for shareholders who are asking the question. Hey, one
is informatics and machine learning create a revenue arm of its own. I'm not sure that's the right
question.
I think that analytics and informatics power the ecosystem as a whole. We are pretty agnostic as
to how we get paid for that. If we get paid for that through increased utilization, wonderful, that
works great. We look at cost to develop those programs and kind of overall their contribution to
our financial health, but we don't have to charge for them individually if that's not our customer
wants to pay for it. Let me turn it to you, Marshall and any color you want to add.
A - `Marshall L. Mohr, Chief Financial Officer `
No. I think that's right. I think that we look at it as the opportunity to increase the ecosystem and
to expand our base into our accelerate adoption.
A - `Gary S. Guthart, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Amit.
Operator
Next we have the line of `David Lewis, Analyst, Morgan Stanley of Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.
Q - `David Lewis, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `Great. Thanks so much for taking the question. Marshall I appreciate you don't have guidance and
I appreciate your commentary on spending levels for '21, but as I'm sure you appreciate without
revenue figures those are kind of hard numbers to put in context. So I was wondering if you help
us out a little bit more. I mean is the right messaging here that OpEx growth in '21 is going to go
faster than whatever the sales growth rate is or asked kind of same question different way. I
mean SG&A for the last several years has grown in line with revenue and R&D has grown kind of
2x revenue growth rates. Are those the type of any of those parameters you would kind of give
us any visibility could be super helpful. And then I got a couple of follow-ups.
A - `Marshall L. Mohr, Chief Financial Officer `
It's a good question. And I am as a matter of fact that we aren't given you revenue guidance. So
it's hard to put those numbers in context. However it really does come down to the impacts of
COVID are really pretty unpredictable. And so if COVID wanes quickly then I think the spend
we're talking about might match up better with revenue increase, but I got to tell you the point of
my -- the reason I pointed this all out in terms of the increases and expenses that we were able
this year we saw a long period where COVID impacted us.
And we, some of the variable expenses, I outlined came in pretty low relative to what they
historically had been and those will increase as COVID goes away. But in addition to that, there
are other expenses that we will continue to spend the increases there will be increases
regardless of what happened to COVID.
I think we want to continue to invest in the R&D areas that I mentioned. And we want to because
we see that there is a real opportunity to continue to expand our marketplace and to expand
penetration in the long-term. And so we are going to increase those costs. I know I haven't given
you what you're looking for, but it's just a very difficult environment to predict revenue and
procedures at this point.
Q - `David Lewis, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Okay. And then just maybe two quick follow-ups. One, easier to answer, the other. Just in terms
of volumes, obviously fourth quarter was more similar to third quarter and generally speaking and
the message from most corporates last week was that first quarter is going to be you know at
fourth quarter if not frankly a little worse. I'm just wondering if you sort of comment on sort of
what you're seeing for the procedure environment here in the first quarter. And then just
secondarily on the extended use program. Obviously we saw kind of a bolus on revenue per
procedure this particular quarter as hospitals didn't change inventory patterns. Are you seeing
any evidence I know it's hard in COVID that it's driving higher demand, the extended use
program driving higher demand and when would you expect those revenue per procedure
numbers to begin to reverse. Is that as early as the first quarter or probably more likely middle
part of the year. Sorry for both questions. Thanks so much.
A - `Marshall L. Mohr, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So your -- the first part of your question was -- Q1 volume. I made the comment that as we
went through the quarter the resurgence became more acute and it had a greater impact on
procedures. And so I gave you the California example of where you go from growth in October
to reduction in December. That should be an indication of the level of sort of impact it can have.
And then I made -- I also made the comment that we saw the trends at the end of the quarter
continue into January.So I think you said that other companies are saying that Q1 could be worse. It could be, but again
we're not, we're not going to try to predict exactly where it's going to come out, given the
uncertainties around it. But it's clear coming into the quarter, it was at the -- at the bottom end of
what was going on in Q4. As far as extended use instruments go, we launched it in the US in -- at
the beginning of the quarter and in Europe in the middle of the quarter.
About three quarters our customers are now acquiring extended use instruments. They're
starting to be used on procedures. It's really hard for us to predict exactly when we'll start to see
the benefits of those extended use instruments in terms of elasticity and a price elasticity and it's
certainly are going to be confounded by COVID.
So I think it will take time. I think it's going to take a while before we start to see that. Sometimes
you have to point out benefits to the hospital. You have to sell a little bit and just think we'll be
patient about it.
Operator
Next, we have the line of Bob Hopkins, Bank of America. Your line is open.
Q - `Robert Hopkins, Analyst, Bank of America `
Okay, great, thanks, and good afternoon. Gary, I want to get your opinion on two geographies if
okay. First on the US. Just curious, do you think that perhaps by the second half of this year, there
is a chance based on everything you're seeing that we could be close to a normal level of surgical
procedure volumes in the US or given what you're seeing on the diagnostic side and the slow
vaccine rollout that that's more likely to be a 2022 event. And then also I love to get your opinion
on China and the durability of the phenomenal growth you appear to be having here of late?
A - `Gary S. Guthart, Chief Executive Officer `
Hey, Bob, on the first one, the US, I won't predict for you. But let's talk about the puts and the
takes the things that are going to be the push pull about it. Clearly hospitals want to get back to
treating patients who are non-COVID patients, there is a demand and the desire to do that.
It takes a couple of things. One is that resources get freed up from treating COVID patients to
allow them to treat other things and some of that is ICU resources and a lot of it is staff. So as
COVID surges go. So it is access to that set of resources. Your tracking in analysis is as good as
ours in terms of looking at how well the vaccine is going to go out and what the COVID numbers
might be. So I think that's a large part of it. In terms of the diagnostic pipelines kind of the same
thing I think everybody wants to get patients back in to get diagnosed. There's we think a backlog
that's been building for surgical patients as the surge happens.
And then you have this longer backlog of folks who have been for going normal checkups
whether it's colonoscopies or PSA screening or what have you. That will start coming back in and
of course disease doesn't take a holiday. And as a result those things will be more advanced
when they're caught. We've seen this before, we've been in this movie when we saw changes to
PSA testing recommendations. That will again create a backlog, but it will take longer for it to
realize and a longer for it to process through.
I don't think it's going to drive substantive share shifts between treatment modalities. I think it's
going to be hard on patients as they go through that and that will provide a headwind for us, and
certainly in 2021 and then tailwinds thereafter as those folks are diagnosed and come back into
the pipe.So that's kind of where I see the US. Moving to China, long-term, we're quite excited. Pretty
clearly Chinese patients are interested in high quality care. Chinese surgeons are quite interested
in robotics and in da Vinci and our partnership with Fosun and the joint venture is going well for us.
So in the near term that feels great. And I think there's a lot of strong underlying interest. As
we've talked about before the medical marketplace in China is complicated. Right now systems
are under quota essentially managed quota. We see changes occurring in the Chinese regulatory
environment over time as CFDA implements new policies and processes. And we see that there
are Chinese companies that are interested in this opportunity are pushing hard to field
competitive systems.
So we are committed long-term to China. I think it's going to be a strong demand market and a
bouncy sometimes turbulent marketplace due to policy changes and some of the central controls
that are in place. We'll keep you updated as we get more clarity there.
Q - `Robert Hopkins, Analyst, Bank of America `
Great. Thank you. I'll leave it at that.
A - `Gary S. Guthart, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Bob.
Operator
Next, we have the line of Larry Biegelsen, Wells Fargo. Your line is open.
Q - `Lawrence Biegelsen, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Good afternoon. Thanks for taking the question. I'll just ask one multipart question on Ion. I'm just
curious to know kind of the what comes next year. You talked about the PRECISE data completing
enrollment I think in the second quarter. Should we assume that we see that data in 2022? Is
there any update on Ion in China? And then your competition has talked about indication
expansion beyond lung bronchoscopy. Any color or you're willing to share there? And just lastly
adding a therapeutic capability to Ion. So basically the road map here on Ion what can we expect
maybe going forward here? Thanks for taking the question.
A - `Gary S. Guthart, Chief Executive Officer `
All right. Thanks, Larry. Philip, I'm going to turn to you on the PRECISE trial timing and then I'll take
it from there.
A - `Philip Kim, Head of Investor Relations `
Yeah. With respect to when you might hear some data, it is a fair assumption to expect to hear
something in 2022. We haven't been more specific beyond on that, Larry.
A - `Gary S. Guthart, Chief Executive Officer `
With regard to future indications. Right now we're at with Ion. We are -- our commercial teams
and our manufacturing operations teams are tightly focused on supplying and performing in the
diagnostic bronchoscopy market our first indication. Clearly Ion is a platform technology and
we're excited about it.That said, I'd remind everybody, we are in early innings, all of us. The entire field is in early innings
with regard to bronchoscopy. Our clinical results there are outstanding. I think that they are
market leading relative to competitors, any other competitors, and we want to fulfill that market.
We want to satisfy those customers that means satisfying them in terms of quality and demand
and shipments and so on. We think there are longer term applications beyond bronchoscopy and
beyond diagnostics and we're working on those. We are working on ablation technologies and
some other things.
We're not ready to speak publicly about where we might go next for a couple of reasons. One is,
we're still in the very earliest innings about making bronchoscope a reality and two for
competitive reasons, we're not ready yet to describe what we intend to do next.
Q - `Lawrence Biegelsen, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
In China, Gary?
A - `Gary S. Guthart, Chief Executive Officer `
On the China front, we of course have the joint venture with Fosun. We are working through
pathways for Ion in China. We think there is a market there. I would advise folks that the Chinese
regulatory system and CFDA handles GEN 1 products pretty differently than FDA does in the US.
And as a result of you want to see a little greater maturity in your product line before you go
broadly there. So we're working through that with our JV and also with the Chinese regulators
when we have some timelines for you, we will describe them, but we remain active and
interested.
Q - `Lawrence Biegelsen, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Thanks so much.
Operator
Next, we have the line of `Tycho Peterson, Analyst, JPMorgan, JPMorgan. Your line is open.
Q - `Tycho Peterson, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Hey, thanks. Gary you mentioned no kind of shift in treatment modalities. So I assume the
deceleration doesn't imply any kind of share loss to laparoscopic, but as we think about coming
out of the pandemic. The other side of it is you have a normal technology for monitoring,
proctoring, and analysis. Are there structural changes here you think coming out of the pandemic
that could drive faster adoption of robotics?
A - `Gary S. Guthart, Chief Executive Officer `
I believe so. Now this is you know we will -- the right answer is we'll see, time will tell, but there
are some encouraging anecdotes and there are anecdotes. One is I think folks are realizing that a
lot can get done without jumping on planes and that's true for surgeons. And one of the things
that our teams have done beautifully this year is to more fully digitize and regionalize training that
has been great.
So forward deployment of training and greater use of digital tools that will continue. And I think
the acceptance of that is increasing. It's also accelerated remote proctoring as you've said. So Ithink that has been a positive for us and something that we had. Thankfully, we made some
investments in part of the pandemic.
The second part is, I think that people are seeing changes in resource consumption. Days in the
hospital, ICU time, patient comfort at being housed in hospitals in the pandemic has declined.
And I think that will be durable. I think even after COVID rates start to drop. I think folks thinking
that sitting around a hospital isn't a great idea and using ICU resources when you don't have to
isn't a great idea. And I already I think we see that folks are saying hey really high quality minimally
invasive surgery done well, by the way, having the analytics back that up is going to be
appreciated and maybe an accelerant.
So I am cautiously optimistic that some of the trends we're seeing in terms of what recovery
might be are going to be real positive for Intuitive.
Q - `Tycho Peterson, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Another thing you highlighted at the conference was the regulatory requirements and timelines
for the industry keep increasing. I know that's something you've been talking about for a while,
but as we think about the road map here for SP, the IDT, IDE trial for colorectal. As the timelines
gotten pushed out further in your view, given the regulatory burden or is just kind of in line with
what you've been talking about for a while?
A - `Gary S. Guthart, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I think, we're starting to see the contours of the regulation side in the US stabilized. So it's
stabilizing at a requirement level that's greater than it was in year's past, but I don't think it's
continuously moving, that's been good. I think the thing that's challenged some timelines for us
and others is COVID. If your clinical trial sites are having to manage COVID as well as whatever
your clinical trial is that can put pressure on you. That's kind of a near-term thing.
I think longer term, the question of what does this do if clinical trial requirements and general
data requirements in the US and Europe for computer-aided systems and robotics have become
greater. What does that imply and it probably implies a couple of things. One is that systems in
the market are likely to stay in the market a little longer because it's just extended timelines for
innovation.
I think the other thing is that it probably re-sequences when you see different products, where in
the world because some healthcare systems are clearly being notable -- are allowing innovative
products into their systems a little more quickly and other ones are becoming a little less. So for a
company like us you'll see increased investment in head count and in resources for clinical and
regulatory staff and you'll see a reordering of where we go with new innovations over time, you
probably see for the industry platforms sit a little longer that probably benefits incumbents a little
more than it does in surgeons.
Q - `Tycho Peterson, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Great and then one last one on the extended use rollout. You did Europe recently US last quarter.
Is there a next step in the process? Are you going to do it in Asia and any reason the elasticity
would be different and any geographies in your view?
A - `Gary S. Guthart, Chief Executive Officer `
Marshall, why don't you take that first.A - `Marshall L. Mohr, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. The rollout into other parts of the world will depend on the regulatory timelines. As you
could imagine in China, it will take a long time and some of the other markets, it might be a little
bit quicker. I don't have a complete roadmap of every country. But, yes, Asia-Pac is absolutely on
our mind and we'd like to get them out to our direct markets in Asia as soon as possible.
As far as the impact on elasticity. We did two things in United States if you recall. We modified the
-- we obviously launched extended use instruments, which lower the cost of care for hospitals,
but we also simultaneously lowered the price of a few select instruments that are used typically in
a more benign lower acuity procedure or benign lower acuity procedures like cholecystectomy,
benign hysterectomy and inguinal hernia.
And then in totality then the use -- that if you look at instrument set that might be used in --
cholecystectomy then the cost is competitive with other minimally invasive approaches. In each
country, we have modified the pricing differently and we're targeting those procedures that are
pressured by reimbursement.
So you can't kind of peanut butter spread the comment of what elasticity will do in the United
States will happen in the other countries, but we are targeting specified procedures in each of
those countries where reimbursement is stressed and we believe we provide value and we'll
see, we believe that will create some elasticity in each country. It will just vary in terms of
magnitude.
Q - `Tycho Peterson, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Okay, thank you.
Operator
Next we have the line of `Richard Newitter, Analyst, SVB Leerink of SVB Leerink. Your line is open.
Q - `Richard Newitter, Analyst, SVB Leerink `
Hi, thanks for taking the questions. If I could just start off on the competitive landscape. Gary, any
comments you can offer on internationally any competitors that are on the market and what
you're seeing out there relative to kind of what you would have expected. And then in the US just
in light of some updates from mainly competitor J&J recently this fall provided an update on the
feature set. And any thoughts you would care to offer where they're going to be trying to
compete particularly on kind of extra robotic arms et cetera?
A - `Gary S. Guthart, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Just on the -- just speaking to the international side. The first thing I'd remind everybody is,
it's not really a robot versus robot question for customers. It's really robotically enabled
ecosystem that drives outcomes versus the robotically enabled ecosystem that drive different
outcomes. That is -- it's programmatic versus programmatic. So each of these when they come
out, you kind of look at it and say, okay, what's the robot capable of. Did they have the
instruments and accessories, the imaging systems, the advanced tools that are required.
Some of this offering analytic capabilities, training capabilities and so on. And you see a pretty
different skill set and capability out of each of these ecosystems. And that's true as well for some
of the bigger competitors that are domestic. So that's how we think about it and I think that's howSo there always be some customers who are interested in trialing and seeing what's capable a
lot of something new. So I'd expect that. Nothing architecturally that I've seen of any of them
including the most recent announcements has surprised me. I think we've seen a lot of these
ideas. We've trialled personally a lot of them inside the company.
And so I think time will tell. We have made the trade-offs. We've made for a reason based on
evaluation, building product and kind of scientific method. And I think that customers will evaluate
those trade-offs over time. We've also seen the idea that some of the bigger players want to
bundle that they're going to put all these things together maybe lower the price of capital and try
to throw some other things and see if they can entice folks.
And I think the way I'd ask customers and shareholders to think about it is bundling make sense if
the underlying products are commodities, if everybody is selling to apply to other paper and one
brand is not that different than the other, it's all fine, but that's not where we are.
Robotic systems and the instrumentation and the imaging systems are not commoditized. And,
as a result, there'll be strong differences in how they're used and what the outcomes are. In that
regard, I think that's what we'll point our customers too and our sales force to understand as
these different things come out.
Q - `Richard Newitter, Analyst, SVB Leerink `
Got it. If I could just have one more follow-up on the capital environment and the discussions that
you're having. As you talk to the institutions as they think of their 2021 budgets. I'm curious, one,
are they kind of thinking of a two-year budgeting process or is it any difference in the way they've
approached their budgeting in the past in the way to COVID and then maybe two is the -- what
signs that they're going to look forward to kind of get back to you to have confidence to go and
make the purchase with the uncertainty that still exists? Thanks
A - `Gary S. Guthart, Chief Executive Officer `
Marshall, why don't you kick off that answer and I'll add a little when you're done.
A - `Marshall L. Mohr, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I think the first part of your question, what are they doing from a budget perspective. I
don't have enough insight to be able to answer the question. Well -- we said that we believe that
they'll go through a reset of course for 2021. I don't know they'll have the same level of spending
they did. We believe that there is financial pressure on the hospitals on a number of the hospitals
as a result of COVID. So there is possibility that 2021 budgets will be less, but will be smaller than
they were in 2020, but I don't have great insight to them.
A - `Gary S. Guthart, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I think the thing I would point to that I think is kind of a economics question for everybody is
just going to be something we look at is, they will make their estimates as to how fast folks will
return and whether they want to accelerate, so that they have capacity available for dealing with
the backlog. I think that will differ by hospital.
So some folks will have the capital capacity to lean in and see this as an opportunity to deepen
their exposure or their presence in market. Others will feel conservative and will want to wait and
see. So I do not think it's going to be a one size fits all in terms of how they do their financial
planning. That was our last question. So I'll conclude from here.In closing, we continue to believe there is a substantial and durable opportunity to fundamentally
improve surgery and acute interventions. Our time -- our teams continue to work closely with
hospitals, physicians and care teams in pursuit of what our customers have turned the quadruple
aim, better more predictable patient outcomes, better experiences for patients, better
experiences for their care teams, and ultimately a lower total cost of care.
We believe value creation in surgery and acute care is foundationally human. It flows from respect
for and understanding of patients and care teams their needs and their environment. Thank you
for your support on this extraordinary journey. We look forward to talking to you again in three
months.
Operator
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the presentation for this afternoon. Again, we
thank you very much for all of your participation and for using our teleconferencing services. You
may now disconnect.