Management’s discussion and analysis of the Company’s financial condition and results of operations is based upon the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.  The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.  The Company bases these estimates and judgments on historical experience, the current economic environment and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.  Actual results may differ materially from these estimates and judgments. 53 Table of Contents The Company believes the following accounting estimates are most critical to an understanding of its financial statements.  Estimates are considered to be critical if they meet both of the following criteria: (1) the estimate requires assumptions about material matters that are uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and (2) material changes in the estimate are reasonably likely from period to period.  For a detailed discussion on the application of these and other accounting estimates, refer to Note 1 in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. Acquired Intangibles —The Company’s business acquisitions typically result in the recognition of goodwill, in-process research and development and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment charges that the Company may incur.  Refer to Notes 1, 2 and 6 in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Company’s policies relating to goodwill, acquired intangibles and acquisitions. In performing its goodwill impairment testing, the Company estimates the fair value of its reporting units primarily using a market-based approach.  The Company estimates fair value based on multiples of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) determined by current trading market multiples of earnings for companies operating in businesses similar to each of the Company’s reporting units, in addition to recent market available sale transactions of comparable businesses.  In evaluating the estimates derived by the market-based approach, management makes judgments about the relevance and reliability of the multiples by considering factors unique to its reporting units, including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, and transactions and marketplace data as well as judgments about the comparability of the market proxies selected.  In certain circumstances the Company also estimates fair value utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis (i.e., an income approach) in order to validate the results of the market approach.  The discounted cash flow model requires judgmental assumptions about projected revenue growth, future operating margins, discount rates and terminal values.  There are inherent uncertainties related to these assumptions and management’s judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. As of December 31, 2015 , the Company had 23 reporting units for goodwill impairment testing.  Reporting units resulting from recent acquisitions generally present the highest risk of impairment.  Management believes the impairment risk associated with these reporting units decreases as these businesses are integrated into the Company and better positioned for potential future earnings growth.  The carrying value of the goodwill included in each individual reporting unit ranges from $7 million to approximately $9.4 billion .  The Company’s annual goodwill impairment analysis in 2015 indicated that in all instances, the fair values of the Company’s reporting units exceeded their carrying values and consequently did not result in an impairment charge.  The excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of the Company’s reporting units as of the annual testing date ranged from approximately 0% to approximately 900%.  In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations used in the goodwill impairment test, the Company applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit and compared those hypothetical values to the reporting unit carrying values.  Based on this hypothetical 10% decrease, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of the Company’s reporting units ranged from approximately -10% to approximately 800%.  After applying the hypothetical 10% decrease, two reporting units’ hypothetical fair values were lower than their respective carrying values.  Management evaluated other factors relating to the fair value of these reporting units, including as applicable results of the estimate of fair value using an income approach, the short period of time since the acquisition of these businesses, market positions of the businesses, comparability of market sales transactions and financial and operating performance, and concluded no impairment charge was required. The Company reviews identified intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable.  The Company also tests intangible assets with indefinite lives at least annually for impairment.  Determining whether an impairment loss occurred requires a comparison of the carrying amount to the sum of undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset.  These analyses require management to make judgments and estimates about future revenues, expenses, market conditions and discount rates related to these assets. If actual results are not consistent with management’s estimates and assumptions, goodwill and other intangible assets may be overstated and a charge would need to be taken against net earnings which would adversely affect the Company’s financial statements. Contingent Liabilities —As discussed in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation and similar contingent liabilities incidental to its business (or the business operations of previously owned entities).  The Company recognizes a liability for any contingency that is known or probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable.  These assessments require judgments concerning matters such as litigation developments and outcomes, the anticipated outcome of negotiations, the number of future claims and the cost of both pending and future claims.  In addition, because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to various factors, including those discussed in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  If the reserves established by 54 Table of Contents the Company with respect to these contingent liabilities are inadequate, the Company would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Company’s financial statements. Revenue Recognition —The Company derives revenues from the sale of products and services.  Refer to Note 1 to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Company’s revenue recognition policies. Although most of the Company’s sales agreements contain standard terms and conditions, certain agreements contain multiple elements or non-standard terms and conditions.  As a result, judgment is sometimes required to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether the deliverables specified in these agreements should be treated as separate units of accounting for revenue recognition purposes, and, if so, how the consideration should be allocated among the elements and when to recognize revenue for each element.  The Company allocates revenue to each element in the contractual arrangement based on the selling price hierarchy that, in some instances, may require the Company to estimate the selling price of certain deliverables that are not sold separately or where third party evidence of pricing is not observable.  The Company’s estimate of selling price impacts the amount and timing of revenue recognized in multiple element arrangements.  The Company also enters into lease arrangements with customers, which requires the Company to determine whether the arrangements are operating or sales-type leases.  Certain of the Company’s lease contracts are customized for larger customers and often result in complex terms and conditions that typically require significant judgment in applying the lease accounting criteria. If the Company’s judgments regarding revenue recognition prove incorrect, the Company’s revenues in particular periods may be adversely affected. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits —For a description of the Company’s pension and other postretirement benefit accounting practices, refer to Notes 10 and 11 in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  Calculations of the amount of pension and other postretirement benefit costs and obligations depend on the assumptions used in the actuarial valuations, including assumptions regarding discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rates of salary increases, health care cost trend rates, mortality rates, and other factors.  If the assumptions used in calculating pension and other postretirement benefits costs and obligations are incorrect or if the factors underlying the assumptions change (as a result of differences in actual experience, changes in key economic indicators or other factors) the Company’s financial statements could be materially affected.  A 50 basis point reduction in the discount rates used for the plans would have increased the U.S. net obligation by $147 million ($92 million on an after-tax basis) and the non-U.S. net obligation by $157 million ($118 million on an after-tax basis) from the amounts recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2015 . For 2015 , the estimated long-term rate of return for the U.S. plan is 7.5% , and the Company intends to use an assumption of 7.0% for 2016 .  Due to this decrease in the estimated long term rate of return on assets, there will be an increase in the expense of approximately $9 million in 2016 .  This expected rate of return reflects the asset allocation of the plan and the expected long-term returns on equity and debt investments included in plan assets.  The U.S. plan targets to invest between 60% and 70% of its assets in equity portfolios which are invested in funds that are expected to mirror broad market returns for equity securities or in assets with characteristics similar to equity investments.  The balance of the asset portfolio is generally invested in bond funds.  The Company’s non-U.S. plan assets consist of various insurance contracts, equity and debt securities as determined by the administrator of each plan.  The estimated long-term rate of return for the non-U.S. plans was determined on a plan by plan basis based on the nature of the plan assets and ranged from 1.10% to 6.00% .  If the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets for 2015 was reduced by 50 basis points, pension expense for the U.S. and non-U.S. plans for 2015 would have increased $9 million ($6 million on an after-tax basis) and $5 million ($4 million on an after-tax basis), respectively. Effective December 31, 2015, the Company changed its estimate of the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit cost for its U.S. and non-U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans.  Previously, the Company estimated the service and interest cost components utilizing a single weighted-average discount rate derived from the yield curve used to measure the benefit obligation.  The new estimate utilizes a full yield curve approach in the estimation of these components by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve used in the determination of the benefit obligation to their underlying projected cash flows.  The new estimate provides a more precise measurement of service and interest costs by improving the correlation between projected benefit cash flows and their corresponding spot rates.  The change does not affect the measurement of the Company’s U.S. and non-U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit obligations and it is accounted for as a change in accounting estimate that is inseparable from a change in accounting principle, which is applied prospectively.  For fiscal 2016, the change in estimate is expected to reduce U.S. and non-U.S. pension and other postretirement net periodic benefit plan cost by $25 million when compared to the prior estimate. For a discussion of the Company’s 2015 and anticipated 2016 defined benefit pension plan contributions, please see “—Liquidity and Capital Resources – Cash and Cash Requirements”. 55 Table of Contents Income Taxes —For a description of the Company’s income tax accounting policies, refer to Notes 1 and 12 to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  The Company establishes valuation allowances for its deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized which requires management to make judgments and estimates regarding: (1) the timing and amount of the reversal of taxable temporary differences, (2) expected future taxable income, and (3) the impact of tax planning strategies.  Future changes to tax rates would also impact the amounts of deferred tax assets and liabilities and could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial statements. The Company provides for unrecognized tax benefits when, based upon the technical merits, it is “more likely than not” that an uncertain tax position will not be sustained upon examination.  Judgment is required in evaluating tax positions and determining income tax provisions.  The Company re-evaluates the technical merits of its tax positions and may recognize an uncertain tax benefit in certain circumstances, including when: (1) a tax audit is completed; (2) applicable tax laws change, including a tax case ruling or legislative guidance; or (3) the applicable statute of limitations expires. In addition, certain of the Company’s tax returns are currently under review by tax authorities including in Denmark (see “—Results of Operations – Income Taxes” and Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements).  Management believes the positions taken in these returns are in accordance with the relevant tax laws.  However, the outcome of these audits is uncertain and could result in the Company being required to record charges for prior year tax obligations which could have a material adverse impact to the Company’s financial statements, including its effective tax rate. An increase in the Company’s nominal tax rate of 1.0% would have resulted in an additional income tax provision for continuing operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 of $33 million . NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS In December 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2015-17, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes (“ASU 2015-17”).  ASU 2015-17 simplifies the presentation of deferred income taxes by requiring that deferred tax liabilities and assets be classified as noncurrent in a classified statement of financial position.  The standard is effective for financial statements issued for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those annual periods and may be applied either prospectively to all deferred tax liabilities and assets or retrospectively to all periods presented.  The Company has chosen to early adopt this ASU prospectively, and therefore, the 2015 Consolidated Balance Sheet reflects the new disclosure requirements. In September 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-16, Simplifying the Accounting for Measurement-Period Adjustments (Topic 805) , which eliminates the requirement for an acquirer in a business combination to account for measurement-period adjustments retrospectively.  The new guidance requires that the cumulative impact of a measurement-period adjustment (including the impact on prior periods) be recognized in the reporting period in which the adjustment is identified which eliminates the requirement to restate prior period financial statements.  The ASU requires disclosure of the nature and amount of measurement-period adjustments as well as information with respect to the portion of the adjustments recorded in current-period earnings that would have been recorded in previous reporting periods if the adjustments to provisional amounts had been recognized as of the acquisition date.  The Company has chosen to early adopt this ASU and therefore, disclosures included within these consolidated financial statements have been updated to reflect the new disclosure requirements. In May 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-07, Disclosures for Investments in Certain Entities that Calculate Net Asset Value Per Share (or its Equivalent) (“ASU 2015-07”).  ASU 2015-07 removes the requirement to categorize within the fair value hierarchy investments for which fair values are estimated using the net asset value practical expedient provided by Accounting Standards Codification 820, Fair Value Measurement.  Disclosures about investments in certain entities that calculate net asset value per share are limited under the new standard to those investments for which the Plan has elected to estimate the fair value using the net asset value practical expedient.  The ASU is effective for entities (other than public business entities) for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, with retrospective application to all periods presented, with early adoption permitted.  The Company has chosen to early adopt this ASU and therefore, disclosures included within these consolidated financial statements have been updated to reflect the new disclosure requirements. In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-03, Interest - Imputation of Interest (Subtopic 835-30): Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs .  This ASU requires that debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of that debt liability, consistent with debt discounts.  The ASU is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2015 but the Company has chosen to early adopt the standard and has applied the guidance to all 2015 debt issuances.  The Company did not retrospectively apply this guidance to debt offerings prior to 2015 as the impact to the consolidated financial statements was not material. 56 Table of Contents In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) , which impacts virtually all aspects of an entity’s revenue recognition.  The core principle of the new standard is that revenue should be recognized to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.  On July 9, 2015, the FASB deferred the effective date of the standard by one year which results in the new standard being effective for the Company at the beginning of its first quarter of fiscal year 2018.  The Company is currently assessing the impact that the adoption of the new standard will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, including possible transition alternatives.