Management’s discussion and analysis of the Company’s financial condition and results of operations is based upon the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.  The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.  The Company bases these estimates and judgments on historical experience, the current economic environment and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.  Actual results may differ materially from these estimates and judgments. The Company believes the following accounting estimates are most critical to an understanding of its financial statements.  Estimates are considered to be critical if they meet both of the following criteria: (1) the estimate requires assumptions about material matters that are uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and (2) material changes in the estimate are reasonably likely from period to period.  For a detailed discussion on the application of these and other accounting estimates, refer to Note 1 in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. Accounts Receivable : The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts to reflect probable credit losses inherent in its portfolio of receivables.  Determination of the allowances requires management to exercise judgment about the timing, frequency and severity of credit losses that could materially affect the allowances for doubtful accounts and, therefore, net income.  The allowances for doubtful accounts represent management’s best estimate of the credit losses expected from the Company’s trade accounts, contract and finance receivable portfolios.  The level of the allowances is based on many quantitative and qualitative factors including historical loss experience by receivable type, portfolio duration, delinquency trends, economic conditions and credit risk quality.  The Company regularly performs detailed reviews of its accounts receivable portfolio to determine if an impairment has occurred and to assess the adequacy of the allowances.  If the financial condition of the Company’s customers were to deteriorate with a severity, frequency and/or timing different from the Company's assumptions, additional allowances would be required and the Company’s financial statements would be adversely impacted. Inventories : The Company records inventory at the lower of cost or market value.  The Company estimates the market value of its inventory based on assumptions of future demand and related pricing.  Estimating the market value of inventory is inherently uncertain because levels of demand, technological advances and pricing competition in many of the Company’s markets can fluctuate significantly from period to period due to circumstances beyond the Company’s control.  If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, the Company could be required to reduce the value of its inventory, which would adversely impact the Company’s financial statements. Acquired Intangibles : The Company’s business acquisitions typically result in the recognition of goodwill, in-process research and development and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment charges that the Company may incur.  Refer to Notes 1, 2 and 7 in the Company’s consolidated financial statements for a description of the Company’s policies relating to goodwill, acquired intangibles and acquisitions. In performing its goodwill impairment testing, the Company estimates the fair value of its reporting units primarily using a market based approach.  The Company estimates fair value based on multiples of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) determined by current trading market multiples of earnings for companies operating in businesses similar to each of the Company’s reporting units, in addition to recent market available sale transactions of comparable businesses.  In evaluating the estimates derived by the market based approach, management makes judgments about the relevance and reliability of the multiples by considering factors unique to its reporting units, including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, and transactions and marketplace data as well as 55 Table of Contents judgments about the comparability of the market proxies selected.  In certain circumstances the Company also estimates fair value utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis (i.e., an income approach) in order to validate the results of the market approach.  The discounted cash flow model requires judgmental assumptions about projected revenue growth, future operating margins, discount rates and terminal values.  There are inherent uncertainties related to these assumptions and management’s judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. As of December 31, 2013, the Company had twenty-two reporting units for goodwill impairment testing.  Reporting units resulting from recent acquisitions generally present the highest risk of impairment.  Management believes the impairment risk associated with these reporting units decreases as these businesses are integrated into the Company and better positioned for potential future earnings growth.  The carrying value of the goodwill included in each individual reporting unit ranges from $7 million to $4.4 billion .  The Company’s annual goodwill impairment analysis in 2013 indicated that in all instances, the fair values of the Company’s reporting units exceeded their carrying values and consequently did not result in an impairment charge.  The excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of the Company’s reporting units as of the annual testing date ranged from approximately 3% to approximately 885%.  In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations used in the goodwill impairment test, the Company applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit and compared those values to the reporting unit carrying values.  Based on this hypothetical 10% decrease, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of the Company’s reporting units ranged from approximately -7% to approximately 785%.  Two reporting units’ hypothetically 10% decreased fair values were lower than their respective carrying values.  Management evaluated other factors relating to the fair value of these reporting units, including as applicable the short period of time since the acquisition of these businesses, results of the estimate of fair value using the income approach, market positions of the businesses, comparability of market sales transactions and financial and operating performance, and concluded no impairment charge was required. The Company reviews identified intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable.  The Company also tests intangible assets with indefinite lives at least annually for impairment.  Determining whether an impairment loss occurred requires a comparison of the carrying amount to the sum of undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset.  These analyses require management to make judgments and estimates about future revenues, expenses, market conditions and discount rates related to these assets. If actual results are not consistent with management’s estimates and assumptions, goodwill and other intangible assets may be overstated and a charge would need to be taken against net earnings which would adversely affect the Company’s financial statements. Contingent Liabilities : As discussed above under “—Liquidity and Capital Resources – Legal Proceedings”, the Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation and similar contingent liabilities incidental to its business (or the business operations of previously owned entities).  The Company recognizes a liability for any contingency that is known or probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable.  These assessments require judgments concerning matters such as litigation developments and outcomes, the anticipated outcome of negotiations, the number of future claims and the cost of both pending and future claims.  In addition, because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to various factors, including those discussed above under “—Liquidity and Capital Resources – Legal Proceedings”.  If the reserves established by the Company with respect to these contingent liabilities are inadequate, the Company would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Company’s financial statements. Revenue Recognition : The Company derives revenues from the sale of products and services.  Refer to Note 1 to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Company’s revenue recognition policies. Although most of the Company’s sales agreements contain standard terms and conditions, certain agreements contain multiple elements or non-standard terms and conditions.  As a result, judgment is sometimes required to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether the deliverables specified in these agreements should be treated as separate units of accounting for revenue recognition purposes, and, if so, how the consideration should be allocated among the elements and when to recognize revenue for each element.  The Company allocates revenue to each element in the contractual arrangement based on a selling price hierarchy that, in some instances, may require the Company to estimate the selling price of certain deliverables that are not sold separately or where third party evidence of pricing is not observable.  The Company’s estimate of selling price impacts the amount and timing of revenue recognized in multiple element arrangements.  The Company also enters into lease arrangements with customers, which requires the Company to determine whether the arrangements are operating or sales-type leases.  Certain of the Company’s lease contracts are customized for larger customers and often result in complex terms and conditions that typically require significant judgment in applying the lease accounting criteria. 56 Table of Contents If the Company's judgments regarding revenue recognition prove incorrect, the Company's revenues in particular periods may be adversely affected. Stock-Based Compensation : For a description of the Company’s stock-based compensation accounting practices, refer to Note 18 to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of stock-based payment awards require subjective assumptions, including the expected life of the awards, stock price volatility and expected forfeiture rate.  The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of stock-based payment awards represent the Company’s best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment.  If actual results are not consistent with management’s assumptions and estimates, the Company’s equity-based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. Pension and Other Post-retirement Benefits : For a description of the Company’s pension and other post-retirement benefit accounting practices, refer to Notes 11 and 12 in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  Calculations of the amount of pension and other post-retirement benefit costs and obligations depend on the assumptions used in the actuarial valuations, including assumptions regarding discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rates of salary increases, health care cost trend rates, mortality rates, and other factors.  If the assumptions used in calculating pension and other post-retirement benefits costs and obligations are incorrect or if the factors underlying the assumptions change (as a result of differences in actual experience, changes in key economic indicators or other factors) the Company’s financial statements could be materially affected.  A 50 basis point reduction in the discount rates used for the plans would have increased the U.S. net obligation by $130 million ($81 million on an after tax basis) and the non-U.S. net obligation by $109 million ($77 million on an after tax basis) from the amounts recorded in the financial statements as of December 31, 2013. For 2013, the estimated long-term rate of return for the U.S. plan is 7.5%, and the Company intends to use an assumption of 7.5% for 2014.  This expected rate of return reflects the asset allocation of the plan and the expected long-term returns on equity and debt investments included in plan assets.  The U.S. plan targets to invest between 60% and 70% of its assets in equity portfolios which are invested in funds that are expected to mirror broad market returns for equity securities or in assets with characteristics similar to equity investments.  The balance of the asset portfolio is generally invested in bond funds.  The Company’s non-U.S. plan assets consist of various insurance contracts, equity and debt securities as determined by the administrator of each plan.  The estimated long-term rate of return for the non-U.S. plans was determined on a plan by plan basis based on the nature of the plan assets and ranged from 1.25% to 6.70%.  If the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets for 2013 was reduced by 50 basis points, pension expense for the U.S. and non-U.S. plans for 2013 would have increased $9 million ($6 million on an after-tax basis) and $4 million ($3 million on an after-tax basis), respectively. For a discussion of the Company’s 2013 and anticipated 2014 defined benefit pension plan contributions, please see “—Liquidity and Capital Resources - Cash and Cash Requirements”. Income Taxes : For a description of the Company's income tax accounting policies, refer to Notes 1 and 13 to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.  The Company establishes valuation allowances for its deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized which requires management to make judgments and estimates regarding: (1) the timing and amount of the reversal of taxable temporary differences, (2) expected future taxable income, and (3) the impact of tax planning strategies.  Future changes to tax rates would also impact the amounts of deferred tax assets and liabilities and could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial statements. The Company provides for unrecognized tax benefits when, based upon the technical merits, it is “more-likely-than-not” that an uncertain tax position will not be sustained upon examination.  Judgment is required in evaluating tax positions and determining income tax provisions.  The Company re-evaluates the technical merits of its tax positions and may recognize an uncertain tax benefit in certain circumstances, including when: (i) a tax audit is completed; (ii) applicable tax laws change, including a tax case ruling or legislative guidance; or (iii) the applicable statute of limitations expires. In addition, certain of the Company's tax returns are currently under review by tax authorities including in Denmark and Germany (see “—Results of Operations – Income Taxes" and Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements).  Management believes the positions taken in these returns are in accordance with the relevant tax laws.  However, the outcome of these audits is uncertain and could result in the Company being required to record charges for prior year tax obligations which could have a material adverse impact to the Company's financial statements, including its effective tax rate. An increase in our nominal tax rate of 1.0% would have resulted in an additional income tax provision for continuing operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 of $36 million. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS None. 57 Table of Contents