Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Other Businesses Matco Tools manufactures and distributes professional tools, toolboxes and automotive maintenance equipment through independent mobile distributors, who sell primarily to professional mechanics under the MATCO brand.  Professional mechanics typically select tools based on relevant innovative features and the other factors described under “—Competition.” Hennessy Industries is a leading North American full-line wheel service equipment manufacturer, providing brake lathes, vehicle lifts, tire changers, wheel balancers, and wheel weights under the AMMCO, BADA and COATS brands.  Typical users of these products are automotive tire and repair shops.  Sales are generally made through our direct sales personnel, independent distributors, retailers and original equipment manufacturers.  Competition in the wheel service equipment business is based on the factors described under “—Competition.” Test & Measurement segment manufacturing facilities are located in North America, Europe, and Asia. 5 Table of Contents ENVIRONMENTAL Our Environmental segment products and services help protect the global water supply, facilitate environmental stewardship, enhance the safety of personal data and improve business efficiencies. 2014 sales for this segment by geographic destination were: North America, 49%; Europe, 24%; Asia/Australia, 15% and all other regions, 12%.  Our Environmental segment consists of the following lines of business. Water Quality Danaher’s water quality business provides instrumentation and disinfection systems to help analyze, treat and manage the quality of ultra-pure, potable, waste, ground and ocean water in residential, commercial, industrial and natural resource applications.  We entered the water quality sector in the late 1990’s through the acquisitions of Dr. Lange and Hach Company, and have enhanced our geographic coverage and product and service breadth through subsequent acquisitions, including the acquisition of Trojan Technologies Inc. in 2004, ChemTreat, Inc. in 2007 and Aguasin in 2014.  Our water quality business designs, manufactures and markets: • a wide range of analytical instruments, software and related consumables and services that detect and measure chemical, physical, and microbiological parameters in ultra-pure, potable, waste, ground and ocean water; • ultraviolet disinfection systems, which disinfect billions of gallons of municipal, industrial and consumer water every day in more than 35 countries; and • industrial water treatment solutions, including chemical treatment solutions intended to address corrosion, scaling and biological growth problems in boiler, cooling water and industrial wastewater applications as well as associated analytical services. Typical users of these products and services include professionals in municipal drinking water and wastewater treatment plants and industrial process water and wastewater treatment facilities, third party testing laboratories and environmental field operations.  Customers in these industries choose suppliers based on a number of factors including the customer’s existing supplier relationships, product performance and ease of use, the comprehensiveness of the supplier’s product offering, after-sales service and support and the other factors described under “—Competition.”  Our water quality business provides products under a variety of brands, including CHEMTREAT, HACH, HACH/LANGE, MCCROMETER and TROJAN TECHNOLOGIES.  Manufacturing facilities are located in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America.  Sales are made through our direct sales personnel, independent representatives and independent distributors. Retail/Commercial Petroleum Danaher’s retail/commercial petroleum business is a leading worldwide provider of solutions and services focused on fuel dispensing, remote fuel management, point-of-sale and payment systems, environmental compliance, vehicle tracking and fleet management.  We have served the retail/commercial petroleum market since the mid-1980s through our Veeder-Root business, and have enhanced our geographic coverage and product and service breadth through various acquisitions including the acquisitions of Red Jacket in 2001, Gilbarco in 2002, the petroleum dispenser business of Larsen & Toubro in 2010 and ANGI Energy Systems in 2014.  Our retail/commercial petroleum business designs, manufactures and markets: • environmental monitoring and leak detection systems; • vapor recovery equipment; • fuel dispensers for petroleum and compressed natural gas ("CNG"); • point-of-sale and secure electronic payment technologies for retail petroleum stations; • submersible turbine pumps; and • remote monitoring and outsourced fuel management services, including compliance services, fuel system maintenance, and inventory planning and supply chain support. Typical users of these products include independent and company-owned retail petroleum stations, high-volume retailers, convenience stores, and commercial vehicle fleets. 6 Table of Contents We entered the vehicle tracking and fleet management market through our acquisitions of Navman Wireless in 2012 and Teletrac in 2013.  Navman Wireless and Teletrac are leading global providers of vehicle tracking and fleet management hardware and software solutions that fleet managers use to position and dispatch vehicles, manage fuel consumption and promote vehicle safety, compliance, operating efficiency and productivity.  Typical users of these solutions span a variety of industries and include businesses and other organizations that manage vehicle fleets. Customers in this line of business choose suppliers based on a number of factors including product features, performance and functionality, the supplier’s geographic coverage and the other factors described under “—Competition.”  We market the products in this line of business under a variety of brands, including ANGI, GILBARCO, GILBARCO AUTOTANK, NAVMAN WIRELESS, TELETRAC and VEEDER-ROOT.  Manufacturing facilities are located in North America, Europe, Asia and South America.  Sales are generally made through independent distributors and our direct sales personnel. LIFE SCIENCES & DIAGNOSTICS Our diagnostics business offers analytical instruments, reagents, consumables, software and services that hospitals, physicians' offices, reference laboratories and other critical care settings use to diagnose disease and make treatment decisions.  Our life sciences business offers a broad range of research tools that scientists use to study cells and cell components in order to understand the causes of disease, identify new therapies and test new drugs and vaccines. 2014 sales for this segment by geographic destination were: North America, 37%; Europe, 29%; Asia/Australia, 27% and all other regions, 7%. Diagnostics We established our diagnostics business in 2004 through the acquisition of Radiometer.  We have expanded the business through numerous subsequent acquisitions, including the acquisitions of Leica Microsystems in 2005, Vision Systems in 2006, Genetix in 2009, Beckman Coulter in 2011, Iris International and Aperio Technologies in 2012, HemoCue in 2013, Devicor Medical Products in 2014 and the clinical microbiology business of Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics in 2015.  The diagnostics business consists of our clinical laboratory (or clinical lab), acute care and pathology diagnostics businesses. Our clinical lab business is a leading manufacturer and marketer of biomedical testing instrument systems, tests and supplies that are used to evaluate and analyze samples made up of body fluids, cells and other substances.  The information generated is used to diagnose disease, monitor and guide treatment and therapy, assist in managing chronic disease and assess patient status in hospital, outpatient and physicians' office settings.  The business offers the following products: • our chemistry systems use electrochemical detection and chemical reactions with patient samples to detect and quantify substances of diagnostic interest in blood, urine and other body fluids.  Commonly performed tests include glucose, cholesterol, triglycerides, electrolytes, proteins and enzymes, as well as tests to detect urinary tract infections and kidney and bladder disease. • our immunoassay systems also detect and quantify chemical substances of diagnostic interest in body fluids, particularly in circumstances where more specialized diagnosis is required.  Commonly performed immunoassay tests assess thyroid function, screen and monitor for cancer and cardiac risk and provide important information in fertility and reproductive testing. • our cellular analysis business includes hematology and flow cytometry products.  The business’ hematology systems use principles of physics, optics, electronics and chemistry to separate cells of diagnostic interest and then quantify and characterize them, allowing clinicians to study formed elements in blood (such as red and white blood cells and platelets).  The business’ flow cytometry products rapidly sort, identify, categorize and characterize multiple types of cells in suspension, allowing clinicians to determine cell types and characteristics and analyze specific cell populations based on molecular differences.  The business also offers genome profiling services. • our microbiology systems are used for the identification of bacteria and antibiotic susceptibility testing (ID/AST) from human clinical samples, to detect and quantify bacteria related to microbial infections in urine, blood, and other body fluids, and to detect infections such as urinary tract infections, pneumonia and wound infections.  Our technology enables direct testing of clinical isolates to ensure reliable detection of resistance to antibiotics. • we also offer systems and workflow solutions that allow laboratories to automate a number of steps from the pre-analytical through post-analytical stages including sample barcoding/information tracking, centrifugation, aliquotting, storage and conveyance.  These systems along with the analyzers described above are controlled through laboratory level software that enables laboratory managers to monitor samples, results and lab efficiency. 7 Table of Contents Typical users of the business’ clinical lab products include hospitals, physician’s offices, veterinary laboratories, reference laboratories and pharmaceutical clinical trial laboratories. Our acute care diagnostics business is a leading worldwide provider of instruments, software and related consumables and services that are used in both laboratory and point-of-care environments to rapidly measure critical parameters, including blood gases, electrolytes, metabolites and cardiac markers, as well as for anemia and high-sensitivity glucose testing.  Typical users of these products include hospital central laboratories, intensive care units, hospital operating rooms, hospital emergency rooms,  physician’s office laboratories and blood banks. Our pathology diagnostics business is a leading histology company in the anatomical pathology market, offering a comprehensive suite of instrumentation and related consumables used across the entire workflow of a pathology laboratory.  Our pathology diagnostics products include minimally invasive, vacuum-assisted breast biopsy instruments; tissue embedding, processing and slicing (microtomes) instruments and related reagents and consumables; chemical and immuno-staining instruments, reagents, antibodies and consumables; slide coverslipping and slide/cassette marking instruments; and imaging instrumentation including slide scanners, microscopes, cameras and software solutions to store, share and analyze pathology images digitally.  Typical users of these products include pathologists, lab managers and researchers. Customers in the diagnostics industry select products based on a number of factors, including product quality and reliability, the scope of tests that can be performed, the accuracy and speed of the product, the product’s ability to enhance productivity, total cost of ownership and access to a highly qualified service and support network as well as the other factors described under “—Competition.”  Our diagnostics business generally markets its products under the APERIO, BECKMAN COULTER, HEMOCUE, IRIS, LEICA BIOSYSTEMS, MAMMATOME, RADIOMETER and SURGIPATH brands.  Manufacturing facilities are located in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia.  The business sells to customers primarily through direct sales personnel and to a lesser extent through independent distributors. Life Sciences We established our life sciences business in 2005 through the acquisition of Leica Microsystems, and have expanded the business through numerous subsequent acquisitions, including the acquisitions of AB Sciex and Molecular Devices in 2010 and Beckman Coulter in 2011.  The life sciences business consists of the following businesses. Our microscopy business is a leading global provider of professional microscopes designed to manipulate, preserve and capture images of and enhance the user’s visualization and analysis of microscopic structures.  Our microscopy products include: • laser scanning (confocal) microscopes; • compound microscopes and related equipment; • surgical and other stereo microscopes; and • specimen preparation products for electron microscopy. Typical users of these products include research, medical and surgical professionals operating in research and pathology laboratories, academic settings and surgical theaters. Our mass spectrometry business is a leading global provider of high-end mass spectrometers.  Mass spectrometry is a technique for identifying, analyzing and quantifying elements, chemical compounds and biological molecules, individually or in complex mixtures.  Our products utilize various combinations of quadrupole, time-of-flight and ion trap technologies, and are typically used in conjunction with a liquid chromatography instrument.  Our mass spectrometer systems are used in numerous applications such as drug discovery and clinical development of therapeutics as well as in basic research, clinical testing, food and beverage quality testing and environmental testing.  To support our installations around the world, we provide implementation, validation, training, maintenance and support from our global services network.  Typical users of our mass spectrometry products include molecular biologists, bioanalytical chemists, toxicologists, and forensic scientists as well as quality assurance and quality control technicians.  We also provide high-performance bioanalytical measurement systems, including microplate readers, automated cellular screening products and associated reagents, and imaging software.  Typical users of these products include biologists and chemists engaged in research and drug discovery, who use these products to determine electrical or chemical activity in cell samples. We also offer workflow instruments and consumables that help researchers analyze genomic, protein and cellular information.  Key product areas include sample preparation equipment such as centrifugation and capillary electrophoresis instrumentation and consumables; liquid handling automation instruments and associated consumables; flow cytometry instrumentation and associated antibodies and reagents; and particle characterization instrumentation.  Researchers use the business' products to 8 Table of Contents study biological function in the pursuit of basic research, as well as therapeutic and diagnostic development.  Typical users of these products include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, medical schools and research institutions and in some cases industrial manufacturers. Customers in the life sciences industry select products based on a number of factors, including product quality and reliability, innovation (particularly productivity and sensitivity improvements), the product’s capacity to enhance productivity, product performance and ergonomics, access to a service and support network and the other factors described under “—Competition.”  Our life sciences business generally markets its products under the AB SCIEX, BECKMAN COULTER, LEICA MICROSYSTEMS and MOLECULAR DEVICES brands.  Manufacturing facilities are located in Europe, Australia, Asia and North America.  The business sells to customers primarily through direct sales personnel and to a lesser extent through independent distributors. DENTAL Our Dental segment provides products that are used to diagnose, treat and prevent disease and ailments of the teeth, gums and supporting bone, as well as to improve the aesthetics of the human smile.  We are a leading worldwide provider of a broad range of dental consumables, equipment and services, and are dedicated to driving technological innovations that help dental professionals improve clinical outcomes and enhance productivity. 2014 sales for this segment by geographic destination were: North America, 51%; Europe, 32%; Asia/Australia, 11% and all other regions, 6%. We entered the dental business in 2004 through the acquisitions of KaVo and Gendex and have enhanced our geographic coverage and product and service breadth through subsequent acquisitions, including the acquisition of Sybron Dental Specialties in 2006, PaloDEx Group Oy in 2009 and Nobel Biocare in 2014.  Today, our dental businesses develop, manufacture and market the following dental consumables and dental equipment: • implant systems and dental prosthetics; • orthodontic bracket systems and lab products; • endodontic systems and related consumables; • restorative materials and instruments including rotary burrs, impression materials, bonding agents and cements; • infection prevention products; • digital imaging systems and software and other visualization and magnification systems; • air and electric handpieces and associated consumables; and • treatment units. Typical customers and users of these products include general dentists, dental specialists, dental hygienists, dental laboratories and other oral health professionals, as well as educational, medical and governmental entities.  Dental professionals choose dental products based on a number of factors including product performance, the product’s capacity to enhance productivity and the other factors described under “—Competition.”  Our dental products are marketed primarily under the DEXIS, GENDEX, iCAT, IMPLANT DIRECT, INSTRUMENTARIUM DENTAL, KAVO, KERR, NOBEL BIOCARE, ORMCO, PELTON & CRANE, PENTRON, SOREDEX, SYBRON ENDO and TOTAL CARE brands.  Manufacturing facilities are located in Europe, North America, South America and Asia.  Sales are primarily made through independent distributors and, to a lesser extent, through direct sales personnel. INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGIES Our Industrial Technologies solutions help protect the world’s food supply, improve packaging design and quality, verify pharmaceutical dosages and authenticity and power innovative machines.  Our product identification business develops and manufactures equipment, consumables and software for various printing, marking, coding, design and color management applications on consumer and industrial products.  Our automation business provides mechanical and electromechanical motion control solutions for the automation market. 2014 sales for this segment by geographic destination were: North America, 45%; Europe, 30%; Asia/Australia, 17% and all other regions, 8%.  Our Industrial Technologies segment consists of the following lines of business. 9 Table of Contents Product Identification We entered the product identification market through the acquisition of Videojet in 2002, and have expanded our product and geographic coverage through various subsequent acquisitions, including the acquisitions of Willett International Limited in 2003, Linx Printing Technologies PLC in 2005, EskoArtwork in 2011 and X-Rite in 2012.  Our product identification businesses design, manufacture, and market the following products and services: • we provide a variety of equipment used to print bar codes, date codes, lot codes and other information on primary and secondary packaging.  Our equipment can apply high-quality alphanumeric codes, logos and graphics to a wide range of surfaces at a variety of line speeds, angles and locations on a product or package. • we are a leading global supplier of integrated solutions for packaging, sign and display finishing, commercial printing and professional publishing.  We provide software for artwork creation, structural design, workflow automation, quality assurance and online collaboration, flexo computer-to-plate imagers and digital finishing systems. • we provide innovative color solutions through measurement systems, software, color standards and related services.  Our expertise in inspiring, selecting, measuring, formulating, communicating and matching color helps users improve the quality and effectiveness of their products and reduce costs. Typical users of the product identification business’ products include food and beverage manufacturers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, retailers, commercial printing, packaging and mailing operations, graphic design firms, and paints, plastics and textile manufacturers.  Customers in this industry choose suppliers based on a number of factors, including printer speed and accuracy, equipment uptime and reliable operation without interruption, ease of maintenance, service coverage and the other factors described under “—Competition.”  Our product identification products are primarily marketed under the ESKO, FOBA, LINX, PANTONE, VIDEOJET and X-RITE brands.  Manufacturing facilities are located in North America, Europe, South America, and Asia.  Sales are generally made through our direct sales personnel and independent distributors. Automation We entered the automation control industry through the acquisition of Pacific Scientific Company in 1998, and subsequently expanded our product and geographic breadth with the acquisitions of American Precision Industries, Kollmorgen Corporation and the motion businesses of Warner Electric Company in 2000 and Thomson Industries in 2002, among others.  Our automation businesses provide a wide range of electromechanical motion control products including: • standard and custom motors; • drives; • controls; and • mechanical components (such as ball screws, linear bearings, clutches/brakes, and linear actuators). These products are sold in various precision motion markets such as the markets for packaging equipment, medical equipment, robotics and circuit board assembly equipment.  Customers are typically systems integrators who use our products in production and packaging lines and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") that integrate our products into their machines and systems.  Customers in this industry choose suppliers based on a number of factors, including product performance, the comprehensiveness of the supplier’s product offering, the geographic coverage offered by the supplier and the other factors described under “—Competition.”  Our automation products are marketed under a variety of brands, including DYNAPAR, HENGSTLER, KOLLMORGEN, PORTESCAP and THOMSON.  Manufacturing facilities are located in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America.  Sales are generally made through our direct sales personnel and independent distributors. Other Businesses Our sensors & controls products include instruments that monitor, sense and control discrete manufacturing variables such as temperature, position, quantity, level, flow and time.  Users of these products span a wide variety of manufacturing markets.  Certain businesses included in this group also make and sell instruments, controls and monitoring systems used by the electric utility industry to monitor their transmission and distribution systems.  These products are marketed under a variety of brands, including GEMS SENSORS, IRIS POWER, QUALITROL, SERVERON, SETRA and WEST.  Sales are generally made through our direct sales personnel and independent distributors. Our energetic materials business designs, manufactures, and markets energetic material systems.  Typical users of these products include systems integrators and prime contractors.  Customers in this industry choose suppliers based on a number of factors, including the supplier’s experience with the particular technology or application and the other factors described under 10 Table of Contents “—Competition.”  These products are typically marketed under the PACIFIC SCIENTIFIC ENERGETIC MATERIALS COMPANY brand. Jacobs Vehicle Systems is a leading worldwide supplier of supplemental braking systems for commercial vehicles, selling JAKE BRAKE brand engine retarders for class 6 through 8 vehicles and bleeder and exhaust brakes for class 2 through 7 vehicles.  Customers are primarily major manufacturers of class 2 through class 8 vehicles, and sales are typically made through our direct sales personnel. Manufacturing facilities of our sensors & controls, energetic materials and engine retarder businesses are located in North America, South America, Europe and Asia. ************************************ The following discussion includes information common to all of our segments. Materials Our manufacturing operations employ a wide variety of raw materials, including steel, copper, cast iron, electronic components, aluminum, plastics and other petroleum-based products.  Prices of oil and gas also affect our costs for freight and utilities.  We purchase raw materials from a large number of independent sources around the world.  No single supplier is material, although for some components that require particular specifications or qualifications there may be a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers that can readily provide such components.  We utilize a number of techniques to address potential disruption in and other risks relating to our supply chain, including in certain cases the use of safety stock, alternative materials and qualification of multiple supply sources.  During 2014 we had no raw material shortages that had a material effect on our business.  For a further discussion of risks related to the materials and components required for our operations, please refer to “