Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for a discussion of how COVID-19 impacted our results of operations and financial position in 2020).  Without limiting the foregoing, we have experienced and/or may in the future experience: • adverse impacts on customer orders and purchases and unpredictable reductions in demand for many of our products; • constraints on the movement of our products through the supply chain; • adverse impacts on our collections of accounts receivable, including delays in collections and increases in uncollectible receivables; • supply chain capacity constraints and price increases, including with respect to freight services; • adverse impacts on our workforce and/or key employees; • unpredictable increases in demand for certain products; and • increased cybersecurity attack activity. In an effort to optimize availability of needed medical and other supplies and products in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, we may elect to or governments may require us or our customers to allocate manufacturing capacity (for example pursuant to the U.S. Defense Production Act (“DPA”)) in a way that adversely affects our financial condition and results of operations, results in differential treatment of customers and/or adversely affects our reputation and customer relationships.  For example, certain of our customers are or have been subject to DPA requirements relating to the production of COVID-19 related products and have required certain of our businesses to also comply with these requirements under our supply agreements.  Further, the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (“BARDA”) of the U.S. government has agreed to finance an expansion of production capacity at one of our businesses for COVID-19 related products, and in connection therewith the business has committed certain of such incremental production capacity to the U.S. government pursuant to the DPA.  In addition, unpredictable increases in demand for certain of our products can exceed our capacity to meet such demand on a timely basis or at all, which can result in negative publicity and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial statements.  The accelerated development and production of products and services in an effort to address medical and other requirements as a result of the pandemic also increases the risk of regulatory enforcement actions, product defects or claims thereof.  In addition, the COVID-19 vaccines that are developed may not all use Danaher’s vaccine development/production solutions, and/or may use Danaher’s solutions to different degrees; and if the number of COVID-19 vaccines under development declines (for example because one or a limited number of vaccines emerges as the preferred solution) the demand for Danaher’s vaccine development/production solutions may decline. Danaher’s COVID-19 testing solutions may also not ultimately be the preferred testing solutions for COVID-19.  Any of these developments may adversely affect our business and financial statements. Although we successfully issued debt and equity in underwritten offerings in 2020, COVID-19 has led to disruption and volatility in the global capital markets, which has increased the cost of, and adversely impacted access to, capital (including in the commercial paper markets) and increased economic uncertainty.  There are no assurances that the commercial paper markets or the capital markets will be available to us in the future or that the lenders participating in our revolving credit facilities will be able to provide financing in accordance with their contractual obligations. 16 While the pandemic continues we expect to experience continued adverse impacts on our business and financial statements, which adverse impacts are unpredictable and may be material.  Even to the extent COVID-19 conditions begin to improve, the duration and sustainability of any such improvements will be uncertain and continuing adverse impacts and/or the degree of improvement may vary dramatically by geography and line of business.  The actions Danaher’s businesses take in response to any improvements in conditions may vary widely by geography and line of business and will likely be made with incomplete information; pose the risk that such actions may prove to be premature, incorrect or insufficient; and could have a material, adverse impact on our business and financial statements.  In addition, any restructuring activities we undertake in light of the COVID-19 impact may adversely affect our business and financial statements. Conditions in the global economy, the particular markets we serve and the financial markets may adversely affect our business and financial statements. Our business is sensitive to general economic conditions.  Slower economic growth in the domestic and/or international markets, actual or anticipated default on sovereign debt, volatility in the currency and credit markets, high levels of unemployment or underemployment, reduced levels of capital expenditures, changes or anticipation of potential changes in government trade, fiscal, tax and monetary policies, changes in capital requirements for financial institutions, government deficit reduction and budget negotiation dynamics, sequestration, austerity measures and other challenges that affect the global economy have in the past adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, the Company and its distributors, customers and suppliers, including having the effect of: • reducing demand for our products and services (in this Annual Report, references to products and services also includes software), limiting the financing available to our customers and suppliers, increasing order cancellations and resulting in longer sales cycles and slower adoption of new technologies; • increasing the difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and the risk of excess and obsolete inventories; • increasing price competition in our served markets; • supply interruptions, which could disrupt our ability to produce our products; • increasing the risk of impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets, and the risk that we may not be able to fully recover the value of other assets such as real estate and tax assets; • increasing the risk that counterparties to our contractual arrangements will become insolvent or otherwise unable to fulfill their contractual obligations which, in addition to increasing the risks identified above, could result in preference actions against us; and • adversely impacting market sizes and growth rates. If growth in the global economy or in any of the markets we serve slows for a significant period, if there is significant deterioration in the global economy or such markets or if improvements in the global economy do not benefit the markets we serve, our business and financial statements could be adversely affected. 17 We face intense competition and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may experience decreased demand and decreased market share.  Even if we compete effectively, we may be required to reduce the prices we charge. Our businesses operate in industries that are intensely competitive and have been subject to increasing consolidation.  Because of the range of the products and services we sell and the variety of markets we serve, we encounter a wide variety of competitors; refer to “