Q4 2014 Earnings Call

Presentations tab.
During the company's presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. Afterwards
securities analysts and institutional portfolio managers will be invited to participate in a question-
and-answer session. But the entire call is open to all participants on a listen-only basis.
As a reminder this call is being recorded, Tuesday, August 5, 2014. A replay of this call will be
accessible until midnight, August 19 by dialing 1-877-870-5176 and entering conference ID number
6112672. International callers should dial 1-858-384-5517.
With us today are `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer, Chief
Financial Officer and Perry Hayes, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations.
And now, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Hayes. Mr. Hayes, please go ahead, sir.
`Perry G. Hayes, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations `
Good afternoon and thank you for attending Super Micro's conference call on financial results for
the fourth quarter and full fiscal year 2014, which ended June 30, 2014.
By now you should have received a copy of today's news release that was distributed at the
close of regular trading and is available on the company's website. As a reminder during today's
call the company will refer to a presentation that is `available to participants, which can be accessed in a downloadable PDF format on its website at in the Investor
Relations section of the company's website under the Events and Presentations tab.
Please turn to slide two. Before we start, I'll remind you that our remarks include forward-looking
statements. There are a number of risk factors that could cause Super Micro's future results to
differ materially from our expectations. You can learn more about these risks in the press release
we issued earlier this afternoon, our Form 10-K for fiscal 2013 and our other SEC filings. All ofthese documents are available from the Investor Relations page of Super Micro's website at
www.supermicro.com. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Most of today's presentation will refer to non-GAAP financial results and outlooks. For an
explanation of our non-GAAP financial measures, please refer to slide three of this presentation
or to our press release published earlier today. In addition a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP
results is contained in today's press release and in the supplemental information attached to
today's presentation.
I'll now turn the call over to `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
`Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Perry, and good afternoon, everyone. Please turn to slide four. First let me provide you
with the highlights of our fiscal fourth quarter. We are pleased that our fourth quarter revenue
was $428.1 million. It's 14.5% higher quarter-over-quarter and 32.8% higher year-over-year. This
result was a record high for Super Micro. Non-GAAP net income was $19.4 million or 9.2% higher
quarter-over-quarter and 71.8% higher compared to last year. Super Micro's non-GAAP earnings
per share was $0.40 per diluted share compared to $0.37 last quarter or $0.26 last year.
Slide five, please. In my comments today, I would like to discuss our results last quarter as well as
our achievements during the past fiscal year. Last quarter we achieved record high revenue,
which was 32.8% higher than last year. This strong fourth quarter performance had to push our
full-year revenue to $1.47 billion, representing 26.2% growth over last year. This quarter also
matched the third quarter in the row of record revenue, which demonstrates significant
momentum in our growth trend.
This strong upward momentum is the height in the industry where our growth story is multiple
times that of the industry. It also indicates that we continue to take market share. More than ever
our partners choose our platform system solution due to quality and performance optimization.
Last quarter our service system contributed 55.2% of our total revenue, which is a record high for
system growth. Of that, 48.1% of our business last quarter came from OEMs and direct
customers. Cloud and Internet data center accounts for 17.8% of sales, which is an increase of
150% over last year and approximately 28% higher than last quarter. Indeed these results indicate
that we have been able to win the opportunities in this competitive market with optimized
products.
Geographically, revenue in the North America was 58.6%, Asia was 19.6% and Europe was 18.5%
of total sales. Our growth in North America continues to be strong and very consistent due to our
improved economical scale. DCO, Data Center Optimized, product line and sales folks on our
key market segment in the U.S. We also see a strong growth trend in storage virtualization, cloud
and Internet data center demands.
Asia business improved from last quarter mainly due to stronger growth in China and our Taiwan
facility is about 50% utilized and increasing. As for products, storage has been the consistent
strong product line for all fiscal 2014. We have very strong storage product line, and we have
many partners, who have leading software – storage software solutions that run on Super Micro
system products.
Last quarter our storage revenue grew 54% year-over-year and 27% sequentially, which accounts
to about 10% of our total revenue this past year. GPU solutions were also strong and continue
with 75% higher growth year-over-year and 13% higher sequentially. Our FatTwin product line have
been the strongest with over 150% higher revenue than last year and 107% higher sequentially.Slide six, please. 2014 have been the year of remarkable revenue growth, product innovation,
foundation improvement, and double capacity. It was a breakout year in revenue for Super Micro
with annual growth of 26% mainly due to strong products optimized for storage, HPC,
virtualization, cloud and data center. Our Server Building Block provides a basic fit solution that is
optimized for application for power saving, for density and for cost. Super Micro grows faster
than the industry because we are the only player in the industry that has widest array of Building
Block to deliver the best and exactly what the industry wants. Whether our product is in Super
Micro branded product, or presented in the name of our partner, Super Micro is the leader in
application optimization.
In 2014, our product innovation embraced were the most extensive in the world. We upgrade our
Twin product line with the TwinPro architecture. This is the product industry's first SAS 3.0 storage,
NVMe, accelerated PCIe SSD and Titanium Level efficiency power supply in the Data Center
Optimized platform. We continue to extend the application-optimized SKU for our FatTwin
architecture. We extended our leadership for high-density microserver solutions by launching our
24-node 3U MicroCloud for data center, web hosting, and cloud application. We also launched
the industry's fastest server, the MircoBlade, with our 112 node Atom, or 28-node DPGO in a 6U
form factor.
Lastly, our GPU solutions were the number one in The Green500 supercomputer rankings for
being the most powerful and the most power efficient. Our rapid growth in 2014 was also
enabled by the improvement of our global foundation. Our Asia's Science & Technology Park in
Taiwan supports our Asia and European sales rep much quicker than before.
On our domestic front, we have purchased a new 36-acre land with a 300,000 square feet
building within five minutes from our current campus. We are converting the existing building on
the new purchase to logistics and system integration facilities. And they are about ready to
deploy. This additional facility will enable us to speed up our business growth in North America.
And in the next few years, we will develop this land into one of the biggest IT research and
production facilities in the U.S. We call this new campus the Super Micro Green Computing Park.
Page seven, please. Looking ahead, Intel will launch the new processor technology Haswell in
September. We have been working on our early shipping program with key customers for the
past few months and we are well prepared. Our X10, the industry's strongest server and storage
product lines. They are fully optimal for our new processor. In fact, we have been successfully
deploying thousands of these new X10 systems to early adopter through Intel early shipping
program. Most importantly, we will again be the industry leader in terms of product based
innovation with the leading come-to market advantage. They are the core strength of Super
Micro and we expect to explore this opportunity to its max.
To fully exploit this technology transition, we are also ready to deliver our new server architecture
that we called the Ultra. The Ultra architecture, as its name suggests, is a server architecture that
delivers the highest level performance and the most flexibility than any other servers on the
market today. We have removed the traditional IO rigidity and bottlenecks by developing a set of
new multifunction IO modules. This allow us to have a much higher performance on various
networking and storage solutions. Moreover, the Ultra architecture features a unique design
which achieve much impressive PUE performance, with minimal cooling fans need to operate
most high-performance system configuration. Ultra architecture's unparalleled feature will set
Super Micro apart from its competition when our new generation of server hit the market this
quarter.As we get into fiscal 2015, we are more excited than ever before. We see a great opportunity to
speed up our growth momentum and reach the $2 billion annual run rate this year. Our foundation
continue to get stronger as we start to utilize our Green Computing Park space and Taiwan facility
for higher operation capacity and efficiency. Together with our upcoming Haswell base server
launch, with yet again the first-to-market advantage, we are certain our business will leap into the
next level in the very near future.
For more specifics on the fourth quarter, let me turn it over to Howard.
`Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Charles. And good afternoon, everyone. I'll focus my remarks on earnings, gross
margin, operating expenses and similar items on a non-GAAP basis, which reflects adjustments to
exclude stock compensation expenses. Reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP is included in the
financial statements of the company in today's earnings release and in the supplemental detail in
the slide presentation accompanying this conference call.
Let me begin with a review of the fourth quarter income statement. Please turn to slide eight.
Revenue was a record $428.1 million, up 32.8% from the same quarter a year ago and 14.5%
sequentially. The increase in revenue from last year was primarily due to our increase in server
solution sales, particularly in our cloud, Internet, data center customers. Storage and FatTwin
continue to benefit from the market's desire for more dense and power-efficient solutions. More
importantly, as our solutions become more complex, the value of our engineering and the
optimized solution we can create from our building block approach is continuing to gain
momentum.
On a geographical basis, we had strong growth around the world with Asia leading the way. The
sequential increase in revenue was primarily due to our strength in the U.S., in particular in the
cloud, Internet data center customers. Asia continued to grow while Europe was down. The
strength of our innovative and broad solutions coupled with our strong engineering continued to
draw more customers looking for help in bringing the best solutions to fit their needs.
Slide nine. Turning to product mix, the proportion of revenues from server systems was 55.2% of
total revenues, which was up from 47.4% the same quarter a year ago and from 50.1% last
quarter. ASP for Servers was $3,300 per unit, which is up from $2,400 last year and up from
$2,600 last quarter. We shipped approximately 72,000 servers in the fourth quarter and 1.114
million subsystems and accessories. We continue to maintain a diverse revenue base with over
700 customers and none of these customers representing more than 10% of our quarterly
revenues.
Cloud Internet data center revenues was 17.8%, which was an increase from 15.9%in the prior
quarter and from 9.5% in the prior year. The increase was primarily in the U.S., as we benefit from
the expansion of the cloud and those looking for optimized solutions. 58.6% of our revenues
came from the U.S. and 51.9% from our distributors and re-sellers.
Slide 10. Non-GAAP gross profit was $66.6 million, up 43.9% from $46.3 million in the same
quarter last year and up 15.8% from $57.5 million sequentially. On a percentage basis, gross
margin was 15.6%, up from 14.4% a year ago and from 15.4% sequentially. Price changes from
Ablecom resulted in no basis points charge to gross profit in the quarter, with total purchases
representing 15.7% of total cost of goods sold, compared to 17% a year ago, and 14.4%
sequentially.The year-over-year increase in gross margin resulted from strong vendor relationships, increased
utilization of our Taiwan facility, offset in part by higher cloud Internet data sales. Sequentially,
gross margins were up due to more complete server solutions and increased purchasing power,
offset in part by higher cloud Internet data sales.
Slide 11 and 12. Operating expenses were $37.2 million, up from $31.2 million in the same quarter a
year ago and from $33.2 million sequentially. As a percentage of revenue, operating expenses
was 8.7%, down from 9.7% year-over-year and from 8.9% sequentially. Operating expenses were
higher on an absolute dollar basis year-over-year, primarily in R&D, as we invested in personnel
expenses to support the broadening of our solutions. Sequentially, operating expenses were
higher due to higher personnel expenses for additional R&D resources as well as product
development expenses as we prepare for the transition to Grantley.
The company's head count increased by 148 sequentially to 1,869 total employees. Operating
profit was $29.4 million, up by 94.5% from $15.1 million a year ago, and by 21.2% from $24.3 million
sequentially. On a percentage basis, operating margin was 6.9%, up from 4.7% a year ago and
from 6.5% sequentially. We continue to focus on leveraging the investments we have made in our
infrastructure while still making strategic investment in our Solution portfolio to drive our
operating margins and profits.
Net income was $19.4 million or 4.5% of revenue up 71.8% from $11.3 a year ago and 9.2% from
$17.8 million sequentially. Our non-GAAP fully diluted EPS was $0.40 per share, up from $0.26 per
share a year ago and up from $0.37 per share sequentially. The number of fully diluted shares
used in the fourth quarter was 48,977,000.
The tax rate in the fourth quarter on a non-GAAP basis was 33.6% compared to 24.7% a year ago
and 26.4% sequentially. The rate was higher than last quarter due to additional tax liability
associated with R&D expenses in the current quarter as well as higher profits. We expect the
effective tax rate on a non-GAAP basis to be approximately 35.1% for the first quarter, which is up
from 31.7% in the same quarter last year. An increase from last year reflects the reinstatement of
the R&D tax credit in June of 2013 and the release of tax liabilities in that quarter. The R&D tax
credit has not been reinstated as of yet, which we have estimated to have caused about 2.2%
reduction in our tax estimated current rate.
In addition, if the tax credit is reinstated retroactively, like it has in the past, we will have about
1.2% reduction in our overall annual tax rate. This effectively reduces the tax rate on an annual
basis to about 31.7%. Other items such as a lapse of statute of limitations and an increase or
decrease in profits have affected our tax rate as well in the past. Our non-GAAP tax rate for fiscal
2014 was 30.6%. The company continues to work on our tax planning as we expand overseas.
Turning to the balance sheet on a sequential basis, slide 13. Cash and cash equivalents and short
and long-term investment were $99.6 million, down $4.8 million from $104.4 million in the prior
quarter and up $3.9 million from $95.7 million in the same quarter last year. In the fourth quarter,
free cash flow was a negative $9.7 million primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable and
inventory to support continued growth of the revenue.
Slide 14. Accounts receivable increased by $30.7 million to $212.7 million due to record revenues
mentioned above. Sales DSOs was 42 days, an increase of 1 day from 41 days in the prior quarter.
Inventory increased by $20.7 million to $315.8 million to support the forecasted revenue and the
transition to Grantley-based products. Days in inventory was 77, a decrease of 6 days from 83
days in the prior quarter. Accounts payable was $219.4 million, which was 53 days, a decrease of 5days from 58 days in the prior quarter. Overall, cash conversion cycle days was 66 days, which is
the same as the prior quarter.
Now for a few comments on our outlook. During the fourth quarter, we continued our growth,
leveraging the foundation in product, engineering and delivery we have built over the past few
years to provide optimized solutions to our customers. As we enter the first quarter, which is a
seasonally weak quarter for the industry, we look to take advantage of our time to market by
providing the broadest breadth of solutions as a new technology refresh cycle is about to start to
continue to drive our growth and profitability. Therefore, the company currently expects net sales
for the quarter ending September 30, 2014 in a range of $395 million to $435 million. Assuming
this revenue range, the company expects non-GAAP earnings per diluted share of approximately
$0.36 to $0.42 for the quarter. At the midpoint, this would represent a growth of 34% and 77% in
revenue and EPS respectively from the prior year. It is currently expected that the outlook will not
be updated until the release of the company's next quarterly earnings announcement.
Notwithstanding subsequent developments, however, the company may update the outlook or
any portion thereof at any time.
With that, let me turn it back to Charles for some closing remarks.
`Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Howard. Our first quarter was a record high for Super Micro with growth at 26.2%
higher year-over-year and that outpaced more than four times the industry's growth rate. We
start a new fiscal year with the strongest product line in our history and with our global foundation
and operation ready for a big jump I'm fully confident that 2015 will be a breakthrough year for
Super Micro.
Operator, at this time we are ready for questions.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, our question-and-answer session will be conducted
electronically. And we will go first to Aaron Rakers with Stifel.
Q - `Aaron C. Rakers, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Yeah. Thanks for taking the question and congratulations on the good results. The first question,
if I can, just talk a little bit about the Internet data center vertical. I know you guys talk about there
not being any kind of 10% customers in total, but maybe you can address whether or not there's
any kind of customer concentration dynamics to that vertical. And kind of dovetailing that with the
fact that I think last quarter you had talked about in particular three new large data center
opportunities that you had won, where do we stand in terms of the progression of those
opportunities in terms of the results that you just reported?
A - `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thank you, Aaron. A very good question. Yes, most of our customer continue to buy more
product from us but at the same time we're also growing our overall revenue. So I'd rather say
we will grow more large customer and at the same time, grow – each customer will grow.
Q - `Aaron C. Rakers, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `Okay. And can.
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
Adding to that, Aaron, we – again, as I mentioned, we had no 10% customers. That vertical is
going well for us per se. And like I said, we talked about the three data centers that we won a
couple of quarters ago. Those are going well for us. So there are new relationships that are doing
well for us.
Q - `Aaron C. Rakers, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Okay. And then as a quick follow-up, when we look at the gross margin line, I think some investors
ask why did we not maybe see a little bit more leverage there, given the strong systems mix?
Can you talk about the puts and takes relative to the gross margin be it the mix, relative to
systems versus the components business and how much of an offset we should consider that
Internet data center piece of that as that grows going forward, in terms of maybe a downward
pressure point on gross margin?
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, Aaron. I think, like I said, while the mix of Internet data center business went up to 17.8% this
quarter from last quarter, I think you'll see that our gross margins overall increased. I think we've
been saying all along that it's important for us to be in that Internet data center vertical because
while it is competitive, it helps us increase our purchasing power. So that – if you can take a look at
example that more than offset any of the downward pressure that we had during that quarter
because it really reflects onto the rest of our business as far as that purchasing power.
Q - `Aaron C. Rakers, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Great. I'll jump back in queue. Thank you.
Operator
And we'll go next to Mark Kelleher with D.A. Davidson.
Q - `Mark D. Kelleher, Analyst, D. A. Davidson & Co. `
Great. Thanks for taking the question, and let me add my congratulations as well. Very good
quarter. Just to follow up on Aaron's question, where do you think those gross margins can go? I
mean, there were a number of levers that were working in your favor in that quarter. We talked
about the server mix up, but the ASPs were up, the Taiwan manufacturing was doing very well, so
there's a number of things coming into play here. Where do you think the gross margins can
trend over time?
<A – [065KQ0-E `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer]: Yeah. I believe there still have lot of room for us to grow gross
margin. For example, our Asia facility today, the utilization rate is only about 50% and we see it
will continue to grow strongly. And similar we just purchased in San Jose Mercury News campus,
36 acre. We just started use of the new facility. So we already paid our facility and we just start to
use the facility. Again, the utilization rate will continue to grow as well. So all those will help us. By
the way, the new Intel Grantley platform, as you know, we always have a time to market
advantage and we already shipped 1,000 systems to early deployment customer. And during this
month, next month, we'll ship kind of pretty good volume around early deployment product, so
all those will help in the gross margin and revenue.So I know, Howard you – in the past given us kind of a range. Can we do 16%, 17%; 17%, 18%; 15%,
16%? Where would you peg it?
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
We kept the range the same, Mark, right now at 16% to 18%. We think we have some great
opportunities and we'll keep that range. But also we have some great opportunities to grow our
business as we talked about and Charles talked about.
Q - `Mark D. Kelleher, Analyst, D. A. Davidson & Co. `
All right. Just kind of as a follow up to that your ASPs on those servers jumped pretty dramatically.
What's going on there?
A - `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
We focus on really high-end, high efficiency system. For those system, indeed, each system
comes with a lot of memory and hard drive and that may be one of our key factors. That's why
our ASP grow a lot, especially with tradition. People need a huge memory and hard drive.
Q - `Mark D. Kelleher, Analyst, D. A. Davidson & Co. `
Okay, great. Thanks.
Operator
And we'll go next to Rich Kugele with Needham & Company.
Q - `Rich J. Kugele, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC `
Thank you. Good afternoon. Great quarter and good year. Just two quick questions, first, with
Grantley coming occasionally ahead of these processor rollouts, you do see a pause. Clearly you
guys have not seen a pause in the previous generation. Would you expect it to be a very back-
end loaded quarter as a result of this launch? Or any updates on just linearity with the new
product launch coming in September?
A - `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, the new product happened very smoothly this time so far. And we already – it's why I
mention, we already have thousands now deployed already. And many more thousand is coming
this month and next month. So we do believe a smooth transition and the transition will be strong,
I believe at this moment.
Q - `Rich J. Kugele, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC `
Excellent. Okay. And then lastly, on the Taiwan facility, obviously the utilization continues to
improve and that's good. But, Howard, just to understand the leverage in the model, can you give
us a sense on what the flow through would be on a 60% type utilization? Or a 75% type utilization
rate? And is that your goal? Do you have a goal exiting fiscal 2015? What that target utilization
might be?
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
We said in the past that we wanted to get to about 100% utilization in the next year. That's been
said before on the three lines we have. Remember, we have capacity for six to eight lines there.So again, we have a room to grow, and we're looking at adding additional lines there. As far as
sizing, the benefit from that, again, labor costs and those types of things are about third less than
what they are here. So it can be – we call it as one of the biggest levers for us in helping our gross
margins.
Q - `Rich J. Kugele, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC `
Okay, great. Thank you very much.
Operator
And we'll go back to Aaron Rakers with Stifel.
Q - `Aaron C. Rakers, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Yeah, thanks again. So one of the opportunities that I think has presented itself to Super Micro is
the pending transaction of Lenovo acquiring the IBM assets on the X86 server side. So, maybe
you can just update us on where you stand? Whether or not you've seen any benefit that you've
seen in your business from that? And in particular maybe you could just give us a quick update of
where you stand relative to traction within the traditional enterprise space for Super Micro?
A - `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, it is a very good question. We started to see some customers come to us because they
really want that best quality and onsite service kind of capability. And luckily we are both positive
for them. So we can see some change coming and looks like these trends will continue.
Q - `Aaron C. Rakers, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
And then a final question from me, some discussion around gross margin and leverage, Howard,
I'd like to maybe understand how you think about free cash flow? What do you think the right free
cash flow – maybe better question right working capital metrics would look like on a going-
forward basis? Just any kind of framework of how you're thinking about those metrics would be
helpful as it relates to that free cash flow story?
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, Aaron, if I look back at this past year, I guess we were fairly good at managing our free cash
flow. The only negative that we had, I think we were about $16 million negative for the year, or so
on our free cash flow and quite frankly that was due to the purchase of the property that we had
that we financed about half of it and then we purchased it out of our cash with the rest of it. So
again, that wasn't bad, given that we were able to support the growth of the business. And I think
that's where our focus is going to be. Not to keep leveraging the business and, quite frankly,
grow our business and then re-invest that working capital that money that we've been generating
from our profits back into the business to continue this growth. That's our focus.
Q - `Aaron C. Rakers, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
And we'll go next to Mark Kelleher with D.A. Davidson.Q - `Mark D. Kelleher, Analyst, D. A. Davidson & Co. `
Yeah. I just wanted to follow up on the Grantley launch. What percent of revenue in the quarter
was Ivy Bridge? Is Ivy Bridge still expanding as a percent of revenue?
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, Mark. Actually it grew for us about, I think it was 17% quarter-over-quarter and still
expanding for us. It's still important for us going forward and we still see some long life in that
going forward for many quarters.
Q - `Mark D. Kelleher, Analyst, D. A. Davidson & Co. `
Right, so the – my understanding is that the ramp-up of a new architecture kind of takes many
quarters to happen and we shouldn't be looking for some spike because of Grantley launching in
the September quarter. Is that accurate?
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
That's accurate.
Q - `Mark D. Kelleher, Analyst, D. A. Davidson & Co. `
Okay. Thanks.
Operator
And it appears at this time we have no further questions. I'd like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Liang for any additional or closing comments.
A - `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you for joining us today and we look forward to talking to you again at the end of this
quarter. Thank you, everyone. Have a great day.
Operator
Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. That does conclude the Super Micro fourth quarter and full
fiscal year 2014 conference call. We do appreciate your participation. You may disconnect at this
time. Thank you.