Q4 2017 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Super Micro
Computer Incorporated Fourth Quarter and Fiscal 2017 Conference Call.
The company's news release issued earlier today is available from its website at
www.supermicro.com. In addition, during today's call, the company will refer to a slide
presentation and the CFO commentary which can be accessed in a downloadable PDF format on
its website at www.supermicro.com in the Investor Relations section under the Events and
Presentations tab. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this call is being recorded, today,
Thursday, August 3, 2017. A replay of the call will be accessible until midnight, Thursday, August 17,
2017, by dialing 1 (844) 512-2921 and entering replay pin 7567416. International callers should dial 1
(412) 317-6671. With us today are `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman of the Board, CEO and President, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Howard
Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer; and Perry Hayes, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations.
And now I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr. Hayes. Mr. Hayes, please go ahead, sir.
`Perry G. Hayes, SVP of IR `
Good afternoon, everyone. And thank you for attending Super Micro's conference call on financial
results for the Fourth Quarter and fiscal 2017, which ended June 30, 2017. By now you should have
received a copy of today's news release that was distributed at the close of regular trading and is
available on the company's website. As a reminder, during today's call, the company will refer to
a presentation as well as the CFO commentary that is available to participants in the Investor
Relations section of the company's website under the Events and Presentations tab.
Before we start, I'll remind you that remarks include forward-looking statements. There are a
number of risk factors that could cause Super Micro's future results to differ materially from our
expectations. You can learn more about these risks in the press release we issued earlier this
afternoon, our Form 10-K for fiscal 2016 and our other SEC filings. All of those documents are
available from the Investor Relations page of Super Micro's website. We assume no obligation toMost of today's presentation will refer to non-GAAP financial results and outlooks. An explanation
of our non-GAAP financial measures can be found in our slide presentation or in our press release
published earlier today. In addition, a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP results is contained in
today's press release and in the supplemental information attached to today's presentation.
I'll now turn the call over to `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman of the Board, CEO and President, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
`Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman of the Board, CEO and President `
Thank you, Perry. Good afternoon, everyone. Let me summarize our Fourth Quarter.
Revenue was $717.9 million. It's 36.9% higher year-over-year and 13.7% higher than the previous
quarter.
Non-GAAP net income was $20.7 million. Non-GAAP earnings per share was $0.39 per diluted
share compared to $0.38 last quarter and $0.20 last year.
Non-GAAP EPS was 95.8% higher year-over-year and (30%) higher than last quarter.
Super Micro achieved a new record high in revenue in the Fourth Quarter, which exceeds our
expectations.
For the full fiscal 2017, our revenue was over $2.5 billion or 14% greater than last year. Even more
remarkable is that our fiscal 2017 second half achieved 27.6% growth over last year, which is many
multiples higher than the overall industry and any other Tier 1 vendor, which also demonstrates a
strong momentum as we finish the fiscal year and come into a major technology refresh cycle
which entails new Skylake Xeon processor.
Super Micro has built a strong foundation for sustaining high growth while maintaining profitability
every quarter for 24 years.
Over the last three years, we have managed significant investment in global production capacity,
operations, system solutions, quality, global service and management software.
In the same period, we have ramped our engineering staff by over 60%, bringing in the most
advanced and the broadest portfolio of server and storage, global service and management
software to the market.
These are the investments that we are proud of, the new Supermicro 3.0. Supermicro 3.0
positions us as the fastest growing Tier 1 IT infrastructure provider, capable of delivering first-to-
market product innovations in a global scale with quality, management software, on-site service
global and support to engage our rapidly growing enterprise customer base.
The record high revenue and strong second half growth rate is a direct result of Supermicro 3.0
investment with the major fundamentals in place and the new Skylake product portfolio shipping.
Future investment and expense will begin to (trend) up, driving much improved profitability
moving forward.
The new foundation of Supermicro 3.0 has 3 potential locations worldwide, totaling almost 3
million square feet, with a production building, including dedicated record-level integration,
conversion and validation.
Combined, this capacity can support an annual revenue up to $5 billion on hardware alone. In
2017, we shipped approximately 1.2 million server storage nodes in system and subsystems,based on leading analyst estimates. This volume is above 10% of our total number of systems
shipped in the world.
Under Supermicro 3.0, our direct billings in large enterprise data center storage and deeper
learning is expanding rapidly. We are seeing significantly more engagements with large
enterprise customers than ever before from Fortune 100 companies in technology, social media,
major retailers, news media, cable companies and Internet and retail.
We are engaging earlier for technology optimization and providing more total solutions, which
include incomplete systems, software integration, quality reputation, solution optimization, data
center management software. And global on-site service.
Our channel strategy has also evolved under Supermicro 3.0. We are working more closely with
the channel and with their end user to provide solutions that drive demand to our partner.
Channel accounts for 46.3% of our revenue. And we are becoming a more strategic vendor to
those channel partner through sales of computer systems, which contributed to the growth of
total systems revenue of 74.3% over the quarter.
Under Supermicro 3.0, we also continue to invest in new product lines to enhance our industry-
leading solutions, including our complete line of over 100 new X11 system models based on the
recently announced Intel Xeon scalable processor.
Our BigTwin, SuperBlade, NVMe storage systems and AI and deep learning solutions have been
optimized to deliver the high-scale performance and efficiency from the new Intel processor and
the latest NVMe innovations, especially All-Flash and hybrid NVMe solutions.
We have been -- we have seen major design wins for our new 2U 4-node BigTwin offering in both
the service providers and as well as major storage OEMs. The advanced feature of our 2U 24
NVMe system secure a large-scale agreement at a major financial service company. And we have
seen triple-digital growth in our GPU and AI deep learning system scale -- system sale. We
continue to be the leader in NVMe technology and our ramp of NVMe sales is growing
dramatically.
We secured several new major data center wins and interest from (specific robotics), such as
autonomous driving based on our NVMe competitive advantages.
NVMe storage delivered orders of magnitude, better performance than traditional solutions. And
we had over (80) optimized designs available in a variety of configurations, including a 2U system
capable of delivering 16 million IOPS, which is one of the highest performance systems in the
whole industry.
Our global service and management software have critical factors for Supermicro 3.0. They
provide a Tier 1 experience for our server and storage portfolio. They create a stronger and
deeper relationship with our customers.
Our service team work hand-in-hand with our enterprise customer to (deploy) the highest
performing and most efficient data center in the world.
Our software tools are tightly integrated into the customer environment and tool set. We
achieved ($15 million) of billings from global service and management software in 2017. That is
nearly double from the last year. And we will continue to double yearly moving forward with a
higher margin and amortized revenue model driving increased profitability over time.Looking forward, the combination of new Intel Xeon scalable processor and advanced NVMe
products make this technology transition cycle one of the most significant opportunities for our
customers in over a decade.
Along with the Supermicro 3.0, we have the foundation, the product and a strong pipeline to take
maximum advantage of this technology transition. We believe that fiscal year 2018 will be one of
the strongest years in Super Micro's history.
For more specifics on the First Quarter, let me turn it over to Howard.
`Howard Hideshima, CFO and SVP `
Thank you, Charles. Good afternoon, everyone. I will focus my remarks on earnings, gross
margins, operating expenses and similar items on a non-GAAP basis, which reflects adjustments
to exclude stock compensation expenses.
Reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP is included in the financial statements of the company in
today's earnings release and in the supplemental details in the slide presentation and prepared
remarks accompanying this conference call.
Let me begin with a review of the Fourth Quarter income statement. We ended fiscal year 2017
with a record $717.9 million in revenues for the Fourth Quarter and executing on a number of
strategic investments, which put us in very strong position as this technology refresh cycle begins.
The investments across a number of market verticals and geographies around the world have
expanded our business opportunities with a host of new and exciting and existing customers,
especially in large enterprise.
The increase in revenues of 36.9% from last year was widespread across our market verticals,
such as enterprise, storage, IoT and accelerated computing. This was offset in part by a decline in
IDC.
On a geographical basis, we had strong growth in Asia, Europe and in the U.S. The 13.7%
sequential increase in revenues was primarily driven by strength in Asia. In particular, China was up
35% as we leveraged our growing partnerships.
Non-GAAP gross margin was 13.5%, down 60 basis points from 14.1% a year ago and down 50
basis points from 14% sequentially. The decrease from prior year and sequentially was primarily
due to cost increases in memory and SSD; higher sales in Asia, which is typically more
competitive; and sales of later-stage life-cycle products also affected margins.
Offsetting these were operational efficiencies, which we have made over the past few years
through capacity utilization, economies of scale, more complete solution sales with higher
content of software and services.
Non-GAAP operating margin was 4.5%, up 1.4% from 3.1% a year ago and 20 basis points from
4.3% sequentially. The increase in -- from prior year and sequentially were primarily due to the
growing revenue at a faster pace than our operating expenses. This year, we plan to tighten our
headcount and expense control with the goal of continuing to leverage the investments we have
already made and drive improved profitability.
Net income was $20.7 million, up 100.2% from $10.4 million a year ago and up 2.1% from $20.3
million sequentially.On a non-GAAP basis, fully diluted EPS was $0.39 per share, which was up from $0.20 per share a
year ago and up from $0.38 per share sequentially. The number of fully diluted shares used in the
Fourth Quarter was 53 million.
Turning to free cash flow on a sequential basis. Cash and cash equivalents, short; and long-term
investments were $115.9 million, up $5.4 million from $110.5 million in the prior quarter. In the
Fourth Quarter, free cash flow was a negative $12.3 million, primarily due to an increase in AR of
$92.1 million, offset in part by a decrease in inventory net of accounts payable of $40.9 million. So
the increase in AR was primarily due to higher revenues which accelerated late in the quarter.
Overall, cash conversion cycle days was 95, which is five days lower than the prior quarter and
four days higher than the same quarter last year. We do expect the SSD and memory issues to
last through the end of the calendar year.
Now for a few comments on our outlook. As we enter the First Quarter of fiscal 2018, we see
strong growth opportunities from a technology refresh cycle which is just starting. We continue to
see strong traction for our leading solutions in our growing customer base, especially in large
enterprise.
These factors, coupled with the investments we have made in our future during the past few
years, give us strong momentum to accelerate our growth in the many market verticals we serve
as exhibited by last quarter's results. Therefore, the company currently expects net sales for the
quarter ending September 30, 2017, in a range of $625 million to $685 million. Assuming this
revenue range, the company expects non-GAAP earnings per diluted share of approximately
$0.30 to $0.40 for the quarter. At the midpoint, this will represent an increase of 24% in revenue
and 9% in EPS from the prior year.
We continue to expect to reach the $3 billion run rate by the end of the year -- calendar year. It is
currently expected that the outlook will not be updated until the release of the company's next
quarterly earnings announcement, notwithstanding subsequent developments. However, the
company may update the outlook or any portion thereof at any time.
With that, let me turn it back to Charles for some closing remarks.
`Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman of the Board, CEO and President `
Thank you, Howard. We finished the fiscal year 2017 with record revenue and strong momentum.
Supermicro 3.0 provides the foundation and product to take advantage of this cycle of
technology transition. We believe that fiscal 2018 will be one of the strongest years in Super
Micro's history.
Operator, at this moment, we are ready for questions.
`Perry G. Hayes, SVP of IR `
Operator, we're ready for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) And we'll take our first question from Mehdi Hosseini with Susquehanna
Financial Group.Q - `David Ryzhik, Associate, Susquehanna Financial Group, LLLP, Research Division `
This is `David Ryzhik, Associate, Susquehanna Financial Group, LLLP, Research Division for Mehdi. Just a few if I can. The midpoint of your revenue guide comes out
to around down 9% Q-over-Q. Just wondering, what are the factors there, particularly given that
you're entering the product cycle and it's assumed that it would be ramping in the September
quarter. And I had a follow-up.
A - `Howard Hideshima, CFO and SVP `
Yes, David, this is Howard. Yes. We are seeing the ramp-up as Skylake is launched here. Again
though, the September quarter is seasonally soft. And the -- this guidance is above seasonal
averages.
Q - `David Ryzhik, Associate, Susquehanna Financial Group, LLLP, Research Division `
Got it. And regarding gross margins; if memory pricing was a 50 to 70 basis point hit. And I
assume it was 70 basis points, that would've put your gross margins at 14.2. Given the -- in the
June quarter. Given the high volume, the favorable mix from the lower Internet data center, just
would've thought that the normalized gross margins would've been higher perhaps from capacity
utilization. Can you just talk about what are the other impacts? I mean, you mentioned Asia
business. Can you just elaborate a little bit more on some of the mix and if there's any kind of
pricing impact that we should be aware of in gross margins?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman of the Board, CEO and President `
Yes. Last quarter, indeed, memory and flash price grew more than 20%. In this quarter alone, we
have seen an improvement, (net growth) 10%, will improve for the whole quarter, I hope. (Soon)
the price (stays) high. And that's why we try to be conservative because for memory, for flash,
ASP or some unknown factor.
A - `Howard Hideshima, CFO and SVP `
And David, just to add to what Charles was saying with regards to that; again, we are at the end
of the technology refresh cycle. And we're coming into a brand new technology refresh cycle. So
typically at the end of the cycle, the pricing gets a little bit more -- less on the older technology.
Q - `David Ryzhik, Associate, Susquehanna Financial Group, LLLP, Research Division `
And so I guess, the follow-up would be; should we expect, given that you're entering the product
cycle, the favorable margin impact, should we expect Q-over-Q increase in gross margins?
A - `Howard Hideshima, CFO and SVP `
Yes. I think the ramp for -- of the product cycle we talked before is probably going to be towards
the December quarter. It usually takes something like 2 quarters to ramp the production to the
new chipset.
Operator
And we'll move to our next question from Aaron Rakers with Stifel.
Q - `Joseph Michael Quatrochi, Associate, Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research `Great. This is Joe Quatrochi on for Aaron. Just want to go back to the September quarter guide.
And you -- and talking about that it is above seasonal and then Skylake's going to be more of a
kind of December quarter story or ramp. What's the kind of outline driver for the September
guide?
A - `Howard Hideshima, CFO and SVP `
Well I think we talk about a number of new engagements and new customers that we're bringing
onboard. So the pipeline is very strong.
Q - `Joseph Michael Quatrochi, Associate, Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research `
Okay. Maybe can you talk a little bit about the growth you're seeing in China, what's driving that?
Is it the Fiberhome partnership or something else?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman of the Board, CEO and President `
Yes. Our business in China continues to be strong. And we see -- we continue to gain a major
partner, I mean, especially large corporates. And that trend will continue.
Q - `Joseph Michael Quatrochi, Associate, Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research `
Okay. Then just a quick follow-up on the gross margin. I don't think -- maybe I misheard the
manufacturing utilization this quarter. Then -- I mean, do you think this could be the bottom of
gross margin as we kind of work through some of these memory cost increases?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman of the Board, CEO and President `
Basically, we hope so.
Operator
And we'll take our next question from Brian Alger with Roth Capital `Partners, LLC, Research Division.
Q - `Brian Matthew Alger, Head of Technology Research & Senior Research Analyst, Roth Capital `
As you look in the full year out. And you've talked about Supermicro 3.0, is there -- this
diversification that you're now enjoying, is there a new focus for the company? Or is
diversification really the name of the game as we look going forward?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman of the Board, CEO and President `
Indeed, as you may know, we invested a lot, like in last three years, we grew 60% engineering
manpower. That's why we are able to implement our global service team. And we are able to
make our server storage data center management software completed and ready. So with all
those ready, we are able to continue to gain enterprise customers. Indeed, in the last 12 months,
we won more than 15 large enterprise customers. And this year, we believe we will accelerate the
large enterprise customer (revenue). That means we are truly ready -- function like a true Tier 1
company with product advantage and with a completed solution, including service.
Q - `Brian Matthew Alger, Head of Technology Research & Senior Research Analyst, Roth Capital `
Great. And I guess, maybe a technical question. Obviously, storage was a really strong performer
in this past quarter, up significantly both year-on-year as well as sequentially. In the past --
historical Super Micro, you guys used to ship a lot of JBODs basically. Now you guys have a verystrong NVMe product portfolio. And I'm curious as to how much of your storage solutions these
days are solid-state as opposed to rotational?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman of the Board, CEO and President `
Indeed, last year, the whole year, we grew about 30% in storage system overall. And looking
forward, we will continue to have a strong growth in storage, especially our NVMe base.
Q - `Brian Matthew Alger, Head of Technology Research & Senior Research Analyst, Roth Capital `
Is there a margin difference? If we normalize availability of NAND and DRAM, Howard, is there a
significant difference in terms of this -- the gross margins that you guys can generate with these
NVMe systems as opposed to the JBOD systems that you were shipping previously?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman of the Board, CEO and President `
Basically, NVMe new technology, we're supposed to have much better profit margin, however the
shortage. And at the same time, we need much more volume because we are fastly growing. So
in that case, we had to pay a premium to gain more volume. That's why margin was low.
Operator
We'll move to our next question from Nehal Chokshi with Maxim Group.
Q - `Nehal Sushil Chokshi, MD, Maxim Group LLC, Research Division `
Two part question here. So first, memory and NAND flash price increases for the quarter. How
much was it to you guys on a Q-over-Q basis?
A - `Howard Hideshima, CFO and SVP `
Well as Charles mentioned earlier, we saw price increases around 20%. Within the commentary, I
said that it had about 50 to 70 bps impact to our gross margins.
Q - `Nehal Sushil Chokshi, MD, Maxim Group LLC, Research Division `
Okay. And so I guess, there's some customers that did not accept price increases or you had an
existing fixed-price contract. And the -- what I'm trying to get at is that, there must have been
some % of customers that didn't accept that. And a, what is that %? Then, b, it seems like, given
the incremental revenue and then there was actually negative incremental EPS from what I can tell
that this was actually a negative incremental gross margin business because they didn't accept
the increased price. So b, is that correct? Then, if that is correct, why honor that contract?
A - `Howard Hideshima, CFO and SVP `
Again, the contract was in place, it's expiring and being renegotiated. So again, we had contracts
there and it was terminated. But again, the volume went up and it did hurt us a bit as we
mentioned earlier in our press releases. We'll soon rectify it.
Q - `Nehal Sushil Chokshi, MD, Maxim Group LLC, Research Division `
Okay. If I may, I'd like another follow-up question, just different topic. The ASP per server really
took off, it was up 43% year-over-year and 13% Q-over-Q. What's behind this significant increase?
A - `Howard Hideshima, CFO and SVP `Well I think -- like I said, we're getting into our more full boxes now. As Charles mentioned, we're
building our breadth into the large enterprise-type customers, (data-type) customers, from taking
full boxes. Previously, if you remember, our server solutions category had everything from
barebones to complete server solutions. So we're now moving more into complete server
solutions, including software and support services.
Operator
And we'll take our next question from Alex Kurtz with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Q - `Alexander Kurtz, Senior Research Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
Can you hear me okay?
A - `Howard Hideshima, CFO and SVP `
Yes. We can, Alex.
Q - `Alexander Kurtz, Senior Research Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
Great. So just on some numbers here. What was the utilization rate in the quarter? And what was
the emerging growth -- the emerging storage growth rate?
A - `Howard Hideshima, CFO and SVP `
Yes. For the quarter, Alex, it was about 60% on utilization.
Q - `Alexander Kurtz, Senior Research Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
Yes. And the emerging storage (names)...
A - `Howard Hideshima, CFO and SVP `
Let me get back to you on that question.
Q - `Alexander Kurtz, Senior Research Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
Okay. My question for you guys is just taking a deeper look here at the data center business.
Obviously, IBM was a tough comp in fiscal '17. But even if you, I think, exclude IBM out of the data
center number, it was down this year in fiscal '17. Historically, the IDC business has been a good
business for you guys. So what's going on there? Even if you exclude IBM, it looks like things were
down. Can this business -- can the IDC business grow in fiscal '18 at the same growth rate as the
rest of the business?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman of the Board, CEO and President `
Yes. Indeed, in last year, including last quarter, the major challenge to us was the (no NAND)
memory. Not just the price is high but, in lots of case, we had to wait for memory. So was no
NAND memory in some tier, we had to wait for flash. So that kind of impact. That's why we have
the best IDC, Internet data center business especially.
Q - `Alexander Kurtz, Senior Research Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
So memory specifically held up projects, Charles, is that, right?A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman of the Board, CEO and President `
Your question again?
Q - `Alexander Kurtz, Senior Research Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
So memory impacted your ability to deliver on some opportunities in the IDC space, is that what
you're saying?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman of the Board, CEO and President `
Part of the reason. But also because memory price is so high. And as you know, Internet data
center profit margin basically more limited. That's why we have the best in that area.
Q - `Alexander Kurtz, Senior Research Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
And just last question for Howard. I can get the storage number later. But what would stop you
from getting back to like a 15%-plus gross margin exiting fiscal '18, Howard, assuming that
memory does play out the way you think it does and you have Skylake kicking in, which always is
helpful for you? So why can't investors think about a 15%-plus kind of gross margin on exiting
fiscal '18 if all those things were to come together?
A - `Howard Hideshima, CFO and SVP `
I think, like, what we've talked about here, Alex, we've got a number of investments, we're going
to be leveraging off our investments, being better on our operational efficiencies and operating
expenses. So obviously, there are a lot of opportunities for us to grow that margin through this
year, especially with the refresh cycle coming. With regard to -- just sort of back on the next-gen,
it was about 76% year-over-year growth.
Q - `Alexander Kurtz, Senior Research Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
And you guys still feel that -- you did have that 1 vendor that was acquired by a larger OEM. And
that hasn't impacted your emerging storage business yet?
A - `Howard Hideshima, CFO and SVP `
No. It hasn't. And probably, it will provide us with great opportunities going forward as well.
Q - `Alexander Kurtz, Senior Research Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., Research Division
To work with that OEM that acquired that company?
A - `Howard Hideshima, CFO and SVP `
That's correct.
Operator
(Operator Instructions) We'll take our next question from Nehal Chokshi with Maxim Group.
Q - `Nehal Sushil Chokshi, MD, Maxim Group LLC, Research Division `
One bookkeeping question; number of subsystem units?A - `Howard Hideshima, CFO and SVP `
Number of subsystem units was 1,014,000.
Q - `Nehal Sushil Chokshi, MD, Maxim Group LLC, Research Division `
Okay. Then, of the 15 new large-scale enterprise in fiscal year '17, how many of them began in this
quarter?
A - `Howard Hideshima, CFO and SVP `
Can you say that again, Nehal, sorry.
Q - `Nehal Sushil Chokshi, MD, Maxim Group LLC, Research Division `
So in the presentation, there was a statement that there was 15 new large-scale enterprise
customers during fiscal year '17. I'm wondering how many of those actually started deployments
within this June quarter?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman of the Board, CEO and President `
Indeed, all of them start deployment in last year. And around half of them started to move on
June quarter. But because it's new, that's why the first deployment is not as big. But kind of
relatively a very good size though.
Q - `Nehal Sushil Chokshi, MD, Maxim Group LLC, Research Division `
And so effectively, I think there was like a 170% Q-over-Q increase in the enterprise revenue. Was
that because of all these new large-scale customers? Or was it because you had significant
expense from the large-scale customers?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman of the Board, CEO and President `
I believe majority from the new enterprise customer.
Q - `Nehal Sushil Chokshi, MD, Maxim Group LLC, Research Division `
Okay. Then for those that did become Super Micro customers at the beginning of the fiscal year,
how has cadence of orders been from those large-scale customers?
A - `Howard Hideshima, CFO and SVP `
Well certainly, the opportunities are there. And we're going to be -- as we've said earlier, the
pipeline is very good for us.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman of the Board, CEO and President `
Yes. Last year, we won, I believe, more than 15 large enterprise customer. This year, we foresee
at least to win another 25 or 30.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Mehdi Hosseini with Susquehanna Financial group.
Q - `David Ryzhik, Associate, Susquehanna Financial Group, LLLP, Research Division `This is `David Ryzhik, Associate, Susquehanna Financial Group, LLLP, Research Division again for Mehdi. Just to clarify, what % of total revenue in the June quarter did
enterprise make up? And just given your target of adding 30 new customers in fiscal '18, do you
have a target of what percentage enterprise can make up of total revenue exiting the fiscal year?
A - `Howard Hideshima, CFO and SVP `
Yes, for the quarter, David, it was about 8% of total revenues.
Q - `David Ryzhik, Associate, Susquehanna Financial Group, LLLP, Research Division `
Great. And do you have a target exiting '18?
A - `Howard Hideshima, CFO and SVP `
We haven't put a target out there. Certainly we have plenty of opportunities.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman of the Board, CEO and President `
I hope at least double.
Q - `David Ryzhik, Associate, Susquehanna Financial Group, LLLP, Research Division `
Great. Great. And just related to that, how can we think about OpEx for fiscal '18? You do have an
aggressive strategy to add -- onboard these new customers. I would assume that would require
some investment. Yet, in your slide deck, you talked about that leveling off. Just how can we think
about the quarterly OpEx as moving through fiscal '18?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman of the Board, CEO and President `
Yes. That's in the chart we shared with you, last three years we grew about 450 engineers, just to
enable Supermicro 3.0. And pretty much that whole program already is established. So looking
forward, we don't have to invest actual -- don't have to invest that much actual investment.
Q - `David Ryzhik, Associate, Susquehanna Financial Group, LLLP, Research Division `
Got it. And so I guess -- so no real need to invest in sales and marketing capacity to onboard
additional enterprise customers? Or do you feel like you have what you need?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman of the Board, CEO and President `
Pretty much ready. We need to hire more wherever limited.
Operator
And we'll take our next question from Aaron Rakers with Stifel.
Q - `Aaron Christopher Rakers, MD, Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division `
Yes. And I apologize for kind of joining a little bit late, maybe some housekeeping things first.
How should we think about the progression of the tax rate?
A - `Howard Hideshima, CFO and SVP `
In the prepared remarks -- and this is a new concept for us a bit, Aaron. So if you look on our
website, you'll see some prepared remarks from us. It will say that we do have a guide for this
quarter of about 34% on the tax rate.Q - `Aaron Christopher Rakers, MD, Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division `
Yes. And I guess I was asking more beyond that. I mean, it's been somewhat volatile, quarter-by-
quarter, over the last few quarters. So understanding it's somewhat driven by the international
mix, et cetera. But again, I think it would be helpful to understand, with some of the (taxings) that
you've done over the last few quarters, what should we be thinking about the progression?
Where do you think a normalized tax rate kind of falls out for the company?
A - `Howard Hideshima, CFO and SVP `
Well I think certainly it gets better for us as we go further -- grow further offshore, increase our
foreign presence. But at this point, we're guiding 34% for the quarter.
Q - `Aaron Christopher Rakers, MD, Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division `
Okay, fair enough. If you didn't have the constraints this last quarter on DRAM. And it sounds like
maybe a little bit of flash or SSDs as well, what do you think your revenue could have been? Was
that a $20 million impact, $30 million, $50 million? I'm just kind of trying to frame how constrained
you are in terms of fulfilling the potential incremental revenue.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman of the Board, CEO and President `
Indeed, it's a lot more.
Q - `Aaron Christopher Rakers, MD, Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division `
I missed that. Was that a lot more?
A - `Howard Hideshima, CFO and SVP `
That wasn't small. Aaron, I think we've done a very good job of managing this, going through the
process of managing this. And so quite frankly, we're delivering orders and doing it. You saw
some acceleration at the end of the quarter. But again, we did a pretty good job of managing the
SSD and memory shortage.
Q - `Aaron Christopher Rakers, MD, Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division `
Okay. How much strategic inventory on memory and SSDs are you carrying coming out of this
quarter? I think last quarter, you talked about kind of $63 million of excess inventory.
A - `Howard Hideshima, CFO and SVP `
It's similar to that.
Q - `Aaron Christopher Rakers, MD, Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division `
It's similar to that, okay. And your current view of when things kind of get back to normal, where
you're executing in a quarter that there's no supply constraints, when would you expect that to
be?
A - `Howard Hideshima, CFO and SVP `
Yes. We're not -- we haven't forecasted that per se. We set our guidance...
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman of the Board, CEO and President `Basically, the memory and flash shortage problem will be getting better from now on I believe. So
by December quarter, I believe we will see some significant improvement.
Q - `Aaron Christopher Rakers, MD, Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division `
Okay. Then the final question, I'm sorry to go back to it. But the enterprise business growing as
much as it is, is pretty remarkable. As that grows and becomes a larger potential piece of your
overall business, how do we think about the margin profile of that vertical relative to the margin
of your overall business today, say, relative to the 13.5% growth? I'm just trying to understand how
we should think about that given what should be a positive mix of software, maybe services, that
are wrapped around that traditional enterprise customer base?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman of the Board, CEO and President `
Yes, basically, enterprise customer are more picky with quality of solutions. So the margin will be
slightly better at least.
Q - `Aaron Christopher Rakers, MD, Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division `
Okay. Any -- is it 200 basis points?
A - `Howard Hideshima, CFO and SVP `
We haven't quantified that, Aaron. It's going to be better.
Operator
And that does conclude today's question-and-answer session. Mr. Liang, at this time, I'd like to
turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman of the Board, CEO and President `
Thank you for joining us today. And we look forward to talking to you again at the end of this
quarter. Thank you, everyone. Have a great one.
Operator
And this concludes today's call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.