Q4 2017 Earnings Call

Presentations tab.
During the company's presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode. Afterwards
securities analysis will be invited to participate in question-and-answer session, but the entire call
is open to all participants on a listen-only basis. As a reminder this call is being recorded, today's
Thursday, August 3, 2017. A replay of the call will be accessible until midnight, Thursday, August 17,
2017, by dialing 1-844-512-2921 and entering replay pin 7567416. International callers should dial 1-
412-317-6671.
With us today are `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer, Chief
Financial Officer; and Perry Hayes, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations.
And now, I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr. Hayes. Mr. Hayes, please go ahead, sir.
`Perry G. Hayes, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations `
Good afternoon everyone, and thank you for attending Super Micro's conference call on financial
results for the fourth quarter and fiscal 2017, which ended June 30, 2017.
By now you should have received a copy of today's news release that was distributed at the
close of regular trading and is available on the company's website. As a reminder, during today's
call, the company will refer to a presentation as well as the CFO commentary that is available to
participants in the Investor Relations section of the company's website under the Events &
Presentations tab.
Before we start, I'll remind you that our remarks include forward-looking statements. There are a
number of risk factors that could cause Super Micro's future results to differ materially from ourexpectations. You can learn more about these risks in the press release we issued earlier this
afternoon, our Form 10-K for fiscal 2016 and our other SEC filings. All of those documents are
available from the Investor Relations page of Super Micro's website. We assume no obligation to
update any forward-looking statements.
Most of today's presentation will refer to non-GAAP financial results and outlooks. An explanation
of our non-GAAP financial measures can be found in our slide presentation or in our press release
published earlier today. In addition, a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP results is contained in
today's press release and in the supplemental information attached to today's presentation.
I'll now turn the call over to `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
`Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Perry, and good afternoon everyone. Let me summarize our fourth quarter. Revenue
was $717.9 million. It's 36.9% higher year-over-year and 13.7% higher than the previous quarter.
Non-GAAP net income was $20.7 million. Non-GAAP earnings per share was $0.39 per diluted
share compared to $0.38 last quarter and $0.20 last year. Non-GAAP EPS was 95.8% higher year-
over-year and 3% higher than last quarter.
Super Micro achieved new record high in revenue in the fourth quarter, which exceeded our
expectations. Throughout fiscal 2017, our revenue was over $2.5 billion or 14% better than last
year. Even more remarkable is that our fiscal 2017 second half achieved 27.6% growth over last
year, which is many multiples higher than the overall industry and any other Tier 1 vendors, which
owes our payment rates and some momentum as we finish the fiscal year and coming to a major
technology refresh cycle, which impaired new Skylake Xeon processor.
Super Micro had built a strong foundation for sustaining high gross, while maintaining profitability
every quarter for 24 years. Over the last three years, we have made a significant investment in
global production capacity, operations, system solutions, quality, global service and management
software.
In the same period, we had run our engineering staff by over 60% bringing the most advanced in
both these portfolio of server and storage, global service and management software to the
market. These are the investments that we are proud the new Supermicro 3.0. Supermicro 3.0
positions us as the fastest growing Tier 1 IT infrastructure provider capable of delivering first to
market product innovation and global scale with quality, management software, on-site service
global and support to engage our rapidly growing enterprise customer base.
The record high revenue in strong second half growth rate is a direct result of Supermicro 3.0
investments. With the major fundamentals in place and the new Skylake product portfolio
shipping, future investment and expenses will begin to flatten driving improved profitability
moving forward.
The new foundation of Supermicro 3.0 has three potential locations worldwide totaling almost 3
million square feet with a production building including dedicated record ever integration,
conversion and validation, combined this capacity can support annual revenue up to $5 billion on
hardware alone. In 2017, we ship approximately 1.2 million server storage nodes in systems and
subsystems, based on leading analyst estimates. This (7:18) is about 10% over our total number of
system shipped in the world.
Under Supermicro 3.0, our direct business in large enterprise data center storage and deep
learning is expanding rapidly. We are seeing significant more engagements with large enterprisecustomers than ever before, from Fortune 100 companies in technology, social media, major
retailers, news media, cable companies, and Internet retailers. We are engaging earlier for
technology optimization, and providing more total solutions which including complete assistance,
software integration, quality reputation, solution optimization, datacenter management software
and global on-site service.
Our channel strategy has also evolved under Supermicro 3.0. We are working more closely with
the channel and with their end user to provide solutions that drive demand to our partner.
Channel accounts for 46.3% of our revenue, and we are becoming a most strategic vendor to
those channel partners (8:43) system, which contributed to the growth of total system revenue of
74.3% for the quarter.
Under Supermicro 3.0, we also continue to invest in new product lines to enhance our industry-
leading solutions, including our complete line of over 100 new X11 system models based on the
recently launched Intel Xeon Scalable processor. (9:13) NVMe storage systems and AI and deep
learning solutions have been optimized to deliver the highest performance and efficiency from
the new Intel processor and the latest NVMe innovations, especially All-Flash and Hybrid NVMe
solutions.
We have seen major design wins for our new 2U 4-Node BigTwin offering in both the service
providers and – as well as major storage OEMs. The advanced feature of our 2U 24 NVMe system
secured a large-scale deployment at a major financial service company, and we have seen triple-
digit growth in our GPU and AI deployment (10:09) system sales. We continue to be the leader in
NVMe technology, and our advance of (10:17) NVMe sales is growing dramatically.
We secured several new major datacenter wins, and interest from specific robotics, (10:28) such
as autonomous driving based on our NVMe competitive advantages. NVMe storage delivers
orders of magnitude better performance than traditional solutions, and we have over 80
optimized designs available in a variety of configurations, including a 2U system capable of
delivering 16 million IOPS, which is one of the highest performance systems in the whole industry.
Our global service and management software are critical factors for Supermicro 3.0. They
provide a tier 1 experience for our server and storage portfolio. They create a stronger and
deeper relationship with our customers. Our service team works hand-in-hand with our enterprise
customers to deploy the highest performing and most efficient datacenters in the world.
Our software tools are tightly integrated into the customers' environment, and tool sets (11:41).
We achieved 15 million of earnings (11:45) from global service and management software in 2017.
That is nearly double from the last year, and we will continue to double yearly moving forward,
with the higher margin and amortized revenue model driving increased profitability over time.
Looking forward, the combination of new Intel Xeon Scalable processor and the advance in NVMe
products make this technology transition cycle one of the most significant opportunity for our
customers in over a decade. Along with Supermicro 3.0, we have the foundation, the product and
a strong pipeline to take maximum advantage of this technology transition. We believe that fiscal
year 2018 will be one of the strongest years in Super Micro's history.
For more specifics on the fourth quarter, let me turn it over to Howard.
`Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Charles, and good afternoon, everyone. I will focus my remarks on earnings, gross
margins, operating expenses and similar items on a non-GAAP basis, which reflects adjustmentsto exclude stock compensation expenses. Reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP is included in the
financial statements of the company in today's earnings release and in the supplemental details
in the slide presentation and prepared remarks accompanying this conference call.
Let me begin with a review of the fourth quarter income statement. We end fiscal year 2017 with
a record $717.9 million in revenues for the fourth quarter and executing on a number of strategic
investments, which put us in a very strong position as this technology refresh cycle begins. The
investments across a number of market verticals and geographies around the world have
expanded our business opportunities with a host of new and existing customers, especially in
large enterprise.
The increase in revenues of 36.9% from last year was wide spread across our market verticals
such as enterprise, storage, IoT and accelerated computing. This was offset in part by a decline in
IDC. On a geographical basis, we had strong growth in Asia, Europe and the U.S. The 13.7%
sequential increase in revenues was primarily driven by strength in Asia. In particular, China was up
35%, as we leveraged our growing partnerships.
Non-GAAP gross margin was 13.5%, down 60 basis points from 14.1% a year ago and down 50
basis points from 14% sequentially. The decrease from prior year and sequentially was primarily
due to cost increases in memory and SSD. Higher sales in Asia, which is typically more
competitive, and sales of later-stage life cycle products also affected margins. Offsetting these
were operational efficiencies which we have made over the past few years through capacity
utilization, economies of scale, more complete solution sales with higher content of software and
services.
Non-GAAP operating margin was 4.5%, up 1.4% from 3.1% a year ago and 20 basis points from
4.3% sequentially. The increase from prior year and sequentially were primarily due to the –
growing revenue at a faster pace than our operating expenses. This year, we plan to tighten our
head count (15:25) expense control with the goal of continuing to leverage the investments we
have already made and drive improved profitability.
Net income was $20.7 million, up 100.2% from $10.4 million a year ago and up 2.1% from $20.3
million sequentially. On a non-GAAP basis, fully diluted EPS was $0.39 per share, which was up
from $0.20 per share a year ago and up from $0.38 per share sequentially. The number of fully
diluted shares used in the fourth quarter was 53 million.
Turning to free cash flow on a sequential basis, cash and cash equivalents, short and long-term
investments were $115.9 million, up $5.4 million from $110.5 million in the prior quarter. In the fourth
quarter, free cash flow was a negative $12.3 million, primarily due to an increase in AR of $92.1
million, offset in part by a decrease in inventory, net of accounts payable, of $40.9 million. The
increase in AR was primarily due to higher revenues which accelerated late in the quarter.
Overall cash conversion cycle days was 95, which is five days lower than the prior quarter and
four days higher than the same quarter last year. We didn't (16:40) expect the SSD and memory
issues to last through the end of the calendar year. Now, for a few comments on our outlook. As
we enter the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we see strong growth opportunities from a technology
refresh cycle which has just started. We continue to see strong traction for our leading solutions in
our growing customer base, especially in large enterprise.
These factors coupled with the investments we have made in our future during the past few
years give us strong momentum to accelerate our growth in the many market verticals we serve,
as exhibited by last quarter's results. Therefore, the company currently expects net sales for therevenue range, the company expects non-GAAP earnings per diluted share of approximately
$0.30 to $0.40 for the quarter.
At the midpoint, this will represent an increase of 24% in revenues and 9% in EPS from the prior
year. We continue to expect to reach the $3 billion run rate by the end of the calendar year. It is
currently expected that the outlook will not be updated until the release of the company's next
quarterly earnings announcement, notwithstanding subsequent developments. However, the
company may update the outlook or any portion thereof at anytime.
With that, let me turn it back to Charles for some closing remarks.
`Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Howard. We finished the fiscal year 2017 with record revenue and a strong
momentum. Supermicro 3.0 provides the foundation and products to take advantage of this cycle
of technology transition. We believe that fiscal 2018 will be one of the strongest years in Super
Micro's history.
Operator, at this moment, we are ready for questions.
`Perry G. Hayes, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations `
Operator, we're ready for questions.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. And we'll take our first question from Mehdi Hosseini with Susquehanna Financial
Group.
Q - `David Ryzhik, Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Hi, thanks. This is `David Ryzhik, Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP for Mehdi. Just a few, if I can. The midpoint of your revenue guide
comes out to around down 9% Q-over-Q. Just wondering what are the factors there. Particularly
given that you're entering the product cycle, I'd assume that it would be ramping in the
September quarter. And I had a follow-up. Thanks.
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. This is Howard. Yeah, we are seeing the ramp up, as Skylake is launched here. Again, the
September quarter is seasonally soft and this guidance is above seasonal averages.
Q - `David Ryzhik, Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Got it. Thanks. And regarding gross margins, if memory pricing was a 50 basis point to 70 basis
point hit, and I assume it was 70 basis point, that would have put your gross margins at 14.2% in
the June quarter. Given the high volume, the favorable mix from lower internet datacenter, I just
would have thought that the normalized gross margins would have been higher perhaps from
capacity utilization. Can you just talk about what are the other impacts? You mentioned Asia
business. Can you just elaborate a little bit more on some of the mix and if there is any kind of
pricing impact that we should be aware of in gross margins? Thanks.
A - `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `Yeah. Last quarter indeed memory and flash price grew more than 20%. And this quarter,
although we are seeing an improvement, may grow 10% for the (21:03) whole quarter, I hope. So,
the price is still high. And that's why we tried to be conservative, because for memory, for flash,
ASP is an (21:15) unknown factor.
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
And David, I'd just add to what Charles was saying with regards to that. Again, we are at the end
of the technology refresh cycle and coming into a brand-new technology refresh cycle.
Specifically, at the end of the cycle, the pricing gets a little bit more – less on the older
technology.
Q - `David Ryzhik, Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
So, I guess the fall will be – should we expect – given that you're entering the product cycle, the
favorable margin impact, should we expect Q-over-Q increase in gross margins?
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I think the ramp for the product cycle, we talked before, it's probably going to be toward
the December quarter. It usually takes them about two quarters to ramp the production to the
new chip set.
Q - `David Ryzhik, Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Great. Thanks so much.
Operator
And we'll move to our next question from `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. with Stifel. Please go ahead.
Q - `Joseph Quatrochi, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Great. This is Joe Quatrochi on for Aaron. Thanks for taking the questions. Just want to go back to
the September quarter guide, and you're talking about that it is above seasonal, and Skylake is
going to be more of a kind of December quarter story or ramp. What's the kind of outline driver
for the September guide?
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, I think we talked about a number of new engagements and new customers that we're
bringing on board. So the pipeline is very strong.
Q - `Joseph Quatrochi, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Okay. Maybe, can you talk a little bit about the growth you're seeing in China, what's driving that?
Is it the FiberHome partnership or something else?
A - `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Our business in China continues very strong, and we see a – we continue to gain major
partners, especially large corporates. And that trend will continue.
Q - `Joseph Quatrochi, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `Okay, thanks. And then, just a quick follow-up on the gross margin. I don't think – maybe I have
misheard the manufacturing utilization this quarter. And then – do you think this could be the
bottom of gross margin, as we kind of work through some of these memory cost increases?
A - `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Basically, we hope so.
Q - `Joseph Quatrochi, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Okay, thanks.
Operator
And we'll take our next question from `Brian Alger, Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC with ROTH Capital Partners.
Q - `Brian Alger, Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC `
Hi, guys. Good afternoon. Congrats on a good finish to the year. Obviously, a bit challenging with
memory, but congrats nonetheless. As you look at the full-year outlook (23:57) and you talked
about Supermicro 3.0, is there – this diversification that you're now enjoying, is there a new focus
for the company, or is diversification really the name of the game as we look going forward?
A - `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Indeed, as you may know, we invested a lot, like in last three years, we grew 50% engineering
manpower. That's why we are able to implement our global service team and we are able to
make our server storage, datacenter management software (24:33) completed (24:36) we are
able to continue to gain enterprise customers. Indeed, the last 12 months, we won more than 50
(24:45) large enterprise customers. And this year, we believe we will accelerate the large
enterprise customer gaining.
Q - `Brian Alger, Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC `
Fantastic.
A - `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
That means we are truly already functioning like a true tier 1 company, with product advantage
and with complete solutions, including service.
Q - `Brian Alger, Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC `
Great. And I guess maybe a technical question. Obviously, storage was a really strong performer
in this past quarter, up significantly both year-on-year as well as sequentially. In the past, historical
Super Micro, you guys used to ship a lot of JBODs, basically. Now, you guys have a very strong
NVMe product portfolio, and I'm curious as to how much of your storage solutions these days are
solid state as opposed to rotational?
A - `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Indeed, in last year, the whole year, we grew about 30% in storage system overall. And looking
forward, we will continue to have a strong growth in storage, especially NVMe based.
Q - `Brian Alger, Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC `Is there a margin difference? If we normalize availability of NAND and DRAM, Howard, is there a
significant difference in terms of the gross margin that you guys can generate with these NVMe
systems as opposed to the JBOD systems that you were shipping previously?
A - `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Basically, NVMe new technology, we're supposed to have a much better profit margin. However,
that shortage – that shortage, and then at the same time, we need a much more (26:35) because
we are fastly (26:36) growing. So, in that case, we had to pay a premium to gain more (26:41).
That's why margin was low.
Q - `Brian Alger, Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC `
Understood, understood. Okay, guys. Thanks again and congrats on the rest of the year.
A - `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks.
Operator
We'll move to our next question from Nehal Chokshi from Maxim Group. Please go ahead.
Q - `Nehal Sushil Chokshi, Analyst, Maxim Group LLC `
Thank you. Two-part question here. So, first, memory and NAND flash price increases for the
quarter, how much was it to you guys on a Q-over-Q basis?
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, as Charles mentioned earlier, we saw price decreases around 20%. Within the commentary,
I said that had about 50 bps to 70 bps impact to our gross margins.
Q - `Nehal Sushil Chokshi, Analyst, Maxim Group LLC `
Okay. And so, I guess there are some customers that did not accept price increases, where you
had an existing fixed price contract. And what I'm trying to get at is there must have been some
percent of customers that didn't accept that. And A, what is that percent? And then B, it seems
like – given the incremental revenue and then there was actually negative incremental EPS from
what I can tell that this was actually a negative incremental gross margin business, because they
didn't accept the increased price. So, B, is that correct? And then, if that is correct, why honor that
contract?
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
Again, the contract was in place and it's expiring but renegotiated (28:17). So, again, we had
contracts there and it was terminated. But again, the volume went up and it did hurt us a bit, as
we mentioned earlier in our press releases.
Q - `Nehal Sushil Chokshi, Analyst, Maxim Group LLC `Okay.
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
It's been rectified (28:32).
Q - `Nehal Sushil Chokshi, Analyst, Maxim Group LLC `
Okay. If I may, I'd like another follow-up question, just a different topic. ASP per server really took
off. It was up 43% year-over-year and 13% Q-over-Q. What's behind this significant increase?
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, I think like I said, we're getting to more full boxes now. As Charles mentioned, we're building
our breadth into the large enterprise type customers, ASM (28:57) customers and taking full
boxes. Previously, if you remember, our Server Solutions category had everything from barebones
to complete server solutions. So, we're now moving more into complete server solutions,
including software and support services.
Q - `Nehal Sushil Chokshi, Analyst, Maxim Group LLC `
Okay, thank you. I'll move back into the queue.
Operator
And we'll take our next question from `Alex Kurtz, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc. with KeyBanc Capital Markets. Please go ahead.
Q - `Alex Kurtz, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc. `
Hey, guys. Can you hear me okay?
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
We can, Alex.
Q - `Alex Kurtz, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc. `
Great. So, just on some numbers here, what was the utilization rate in the quarter and what was
the emerging growth – the emerging storage growth rate?
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. For the quarter, Alex, it was about 60% on utilization.
Q - `Alex Kurtz, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc. `
Yeah. And the emerging storage names (29:45)?
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
Let me get back to you on that question.
Q - `Alex Kurtz, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc. `
Okay. My question for you guys is just taking a deeper look here at the datacenter business.
Obviously, IBM was a tough comp in fiscal 2017. But even if you, I think, exclude IBM out of thedatacenter number, it was down this year in fiscal 2017. Historically, the IP IDC business has been a
good business for you guys. So, what's going on there? Even if you exclude IBM, it looks like
things are down in this business. Can the IDC business grow in fiscal 2018 at the same growth
rate of as the rest of the business?
A - `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, indeed in last year, including last quarter, the major challenge to us was the (30:34)
memory. Not just the price is high, but in lot of case, we had to wait for memory. So, now in our
memory and some time (30:44) we had to wait for refresh. So that kind of a intact and that's why
we have the best IDC, Internet datacenter business especially.
Q - `Alex Kurtz, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc. `
So memory specifically held up projects, Charles, is that right?
A - `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Your question, again.
Q - `Alex Kurtz, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc. `
So, memory impacted your ability to deliver on some opportunities in the IDC space. Is that what
you're saying?
A - `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Part of the reason, but also because memory price is so high and as you know, internet
datacenter profit margin are basically more limited. That's why we have a bad sale (31:23) in the
area.
Q - `Alex Kurtz, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc. `
Okay. And just last question for Howard. I can get the storage number later, but what would stop
you from getting back to like a 15%-plus gross margin exiting fiscal 2018? Howard, assuming that
memory does play out the way you think it does, and you have Skylake kicking in which always is
helpful for you. So, why can't investors think about a 15%-plus kind of gross margin on exiting
fiscal 2018, if all those things were to come together?
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
I think, why we've talked about here Alex, we got a numbers of investors who are going to be
leveraging our investments being better on our operational efficiencies and operating expenses.
So, obviously, there are a lot of opportunities for us to grow that margin through this year,
especially with the refresh cycle coming. With regard to – I just sort of back on the next-gen, it
was about 76% year-over-year growth.
Q - `Alex Kurtz, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc. `
And you guys still feel that you did have that one vendor that was acquired by a larger OEM. And
that hasn't impacted your emerging storage business yet or it haven't...?
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
No, it hasn't and probably it will provide us with great opportunities going forward as well.Q - `Alex Kurtz, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc. `
To work with that OEM that acquired that company?
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
That's correct.
Q - `Alex Kurtz, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc. `
Okay. All right. Thanks.
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
With those companies.
Q - `Alex Kurtz, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc. `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Nehal Chokshi with Maxim Group. Please go ahead.
Q - `Nehal Sushil Chokshi, Analyst, Maxim Group LLC `
Yeah. Thanks. One bookkeeping question. Number of subsystem units?
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
Number of subsystem units was 1.014 million.
Q - `Nehal Sushil Chokshi, Analyst, Maxim Group LLC `
Okay. Thank you. And then, of the 15 new large scale enterprise customers in fiscal year 2017,
how many of them began in this quarter?
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
Can you say that again, Nehal? Sorry.
Q - `Nehal Sushil Chokshi, Analyst, Maxim Group LLC `
So, in the presentation, there was a statement that there was 15 new large scale enterprise
customers during fiscal year 2017. I'm wondering how many of those actually started deployments
within this June quarter?
A - `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Indeed, all of them started deployment in last year and around half of them started move on
June quarter. But because it's new, that's why the further (34:01) deployment is not that big, but
kind of a relatively very decisive (34:06) though.
Q - `Nehal Sushil Chokshi, Analyst, Maxim Group LLC `And so, effectively I think, there was like a 170% Q-over-Q increase in the enterprise revenue. Was
that because of all these new large scale customers? Or was it because you had significant
expands (34:24) from the large scale customers?
A - `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
I believe majority from the new enterprise customer.
Q - `Nehal Sushil Chokshi, Analyst, Maxim Group LLC `
Okay. And then, for those that did become Super Micro customers at the beginning of the fiscal
year, how has the cadence of orders been from those large scale customers?
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, certainly the opportunities are there, and we're going to be – as we said earlier, the pipeline
is very good for us.
Q - `Nehal Sushil Chokshi, Analyst, Maxim Group LLC `
Okay, great. Congratulations. This is very encouraging.
A - `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Last year, we won, I believe, more than 15 large enterprise customer. This year, we foresee
at least win another 25 or 30.
A - `Perry G. Hayes, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Mehdi Hosseini with Susquehanna Financial Group. Please go
ahead.
Q - `David Ryzhik, Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Hi. Thanks. This is `David Ryzhik, Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP again for Mehdi. Just to clarify, what percent of total revenue in the
June quarter did enterprise make up? And just given your target of adding 30 new customers in
fiscal 2018, do you have a target of what percentage enterprise can make up of total revenue
exiting the fiscal year?
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. For the quarter, David, it was about 8% of total revenues.
Q - `David Ryzhik, Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Great. And do you have a target exiting 2018?
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
We haven't put a target out there. Certainly, we have plenty of opportunities.
A - `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `The hope is at least stable, right. Stable.
Q - `David Ryzhik, Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Yeah. Great, great. And just related to that, how can we think about OpEx for fiscal 2018? You do
have an aggressive strategy to add onboard these new customers. I would assume, though, it
would require some investment. Yet, in your slide deck, you talked about that leveling off. Just
how can we think about the quarterly OpEx as moving through fiscal 2018?
A - `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. As in that chart we shared with you, last three years, we grew about 450 engineers, just to
enable Supermicro 3.0. And pretty much that whole program already established. So, looking
forward, we don't have to invest that much extra in business.
Q - `David Ryzhik, Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Got it. And so, I guess, so, no real need to invest in sales and marketing capacity to onboard
additional enterprise customers, or you feel like you have what you need?
A - `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Pretty much ready. We have to hire more very limited. (37:08)
Q - `David Ryzhik, Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Got it. Thank you. Yeah, thank you.
A - `Perry G. Hayes, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations `
Thank you.
Operator
And we'll take our next question from `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. with Stifel. Please go ahead.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Yeah. Thanks for taking the questions, and I apologize for kind of joining a little bit late, maybe
some housekeeping things first. How should we think about the progression of the tax rate?
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
In the prepared remarks, and this is a new concept for us a bit, Aaron. So, if you look on the
website, you'll see some prepared remarks for us. It'll say that we do have a guide for this
quarter of about 34% on the tax rate.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Yeah. And I guess, I was asking more beyond that. I mean, it's been somewhat volatile quarter-
by-quarter over the last few quarters of – understanding it's somewhat driven by the international
mix, et cetera. But, again, I think it'd be helpful to understand, with some of the tax things (38:03)
that you've done over the last few quarters, what should we be thinking about the progression?
Where do you think a normalized tax rate kind of falls out for the company?A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
Well I think, certainly, it gets better for us as we go further offshore and increase our foreign
presence, but at this point, we're guiding 34% for the quarter.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Okay. Fair enough. If you didn't have the constraints this last quarter on DRAM, and it sounds like
maybe a little bit of flash or SSDs as well. What do you think your revenue could have been? Was
that a $20 million impact, $30 million, $50 million? I'm just kind of trying to frame how constrained
you are in terms of fulfilling the potential incremental revenue.
A - `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Indeed, it's a lot (38:50) more.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
I missed that. Was that a lot more?
A - `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
(38:57).
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
Aaron, I think we've done a very good job of managing this, going through the process of
managing this. And so, quite frankly, we're delivering orders and doing it. We saw some
acceleration at the end of quarter, but again we've done a very good job of managing the SSD
and memory storage.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Okay. How much strategic inventory on memory and SSDs are you carrying coming out of this
quarter? I think last quarter you talked about kind of $63 million of excess inventory.
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
It's similar to that.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
It's similar to that. Okay. And your current view of when things kind of get back to normal, where
you're executing in a quarter that there is no supply constraints. When would you expect that to
be?
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. We haven't forecasted that, for say, we said out there yet.
A - `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Basically, the memory and flash storage (39:59) program were been getting better from now on I
believe. So, by December quarter, I believe we will see some significant improvement.Q - `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Okay. And then the final question and I'm sorry to go back to it, but the enterprise business
growing as much as it is pretty remarkable. As that grows and becomes a larger potential piece
of your overall business, how do we think about the margin profile of that vertical relative to the
margin of your overall business today? Say, relative to the 13.5% growth. I'm just trying to
understand how we should think about that, given what should be a positive mix of software,
maybe services that are wrapped around that traditional enterprise customer base?
A - `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, basically enterprise customer are (40:49) solution. So the margin will be slightly better at
least.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Yeah. Okay. Is it 200 basis points?
A - `Howard Hideshima, Chief Financial Officer `
We haven't quantified that, Aaron. It's going to be better.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Okay. Fair enough. Thank you very much.
Operator
And that does conclude today's question-and-answer session. Mr. Liang, at this time, I'd like to
turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
A - `Charles Liang, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you for joining us today, and we look forward to talking to you again at the end of this
quarter. Thank you everyone. Have a great day.
Operator
And this concludes today's call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.