Q4 2019 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Super Micro
Computer Incorporated Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2019 Business Update Conference Call. The
company's news releases issued earlier today are available from its website at
www.supermicro.com. During the company's presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only
mode. Afterwards, securities, analysts, will be invited to participate in a question-and-answer
session, but the entire call is open to all participants on a listen-only basis.
As a reminder, this call is being recorded, Thursday, August 15, 2019. A replay of the call will be
accessible until midnight, Thursday, August 29, 2019, by dialing 1-844-512-2921 and entering
replay pin 5585132. International callers should dial 1-412-317-6671.
With us today are `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; `Kevin Bauer, SVP, Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer; and Perry Hayes, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations.
And now, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.Hayes. Mr.Hayes, please go ahead, sir.
`Perry G. Hayes, SVP, Investor Relations `
Good afternoon. And thank you for attending Super Micro's business update conference call for
the fourth quarter fiscal 2019, which ended June 30, 2019. During today's conference call, Super
Marco will address the company's preliminary financial results for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019,
and the company's efforts to become more current with its remaining SEC filing.
References to any financial results are preliminary and subject to change based on finalized
results contained in future filings with the SEC. By now, you should have received a copy of the
news release from the company that was distributed at the close of regular trading and is
available on the company's website.
Before we start, I'll remind you that our remarks include forward-looking statements. There are a
number of risk factors that could cause Super Micro's future results to differ materially from our
expectations. You can learn more about these risks in the press release we issued earlier this
afternoon, our most recent 10-K filing for 2017 and our are other SEC filings. All of those
documents are available from the Investor Relations page of Super Micro's website. We assume
no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. Most of today's presentation will referto non-GAAP financial results and outlook. At the end of today's prepared remarks, we will have a
Q&A session for sell-side analysts to ask questions.
I'll now turn the call over to `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
`Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Thank you, Perry and good afternoon everyone. Our first quarter revenue would be in the range
of $825 million to $835 million which exceeds the midpoint of our quarterly guidance of $800
million. It is 15% lower than last year and 11% higher than last quarter. For our fiscal year revenue
was up approximately $3.5 billion and represents an increase of approximately 4% from last year.
Non-GAAP earnings per share was in the range of $0.57 to $0.61 compared with a range of $0.75
to $0.79 last year and a range of $0.48 to $0.52 last quarter. System revenue was approximately
81% of the total revenue. System ASP was a bit lower year-over-year mostly due to lower DRAM
and then price which impact revenue. We launched a comprehensive portfolio of over 100 DIMM
server and storage system supporting a new Intel second generation Xeon Scalable Processor
code named Cascade Lake. The new product win was record performance and efficiency
improvement to enterprise, Cloud, 5G and AI workload with up to 50% better TCO.
We have seen strong interest in this new products and advance over our new product that
outpace previous generation. It was a challenging period following a traditional strong quarter.
Volatile market conditions well document, trade tension and some key component price
reduction impact our quarterly revenues. However the trade challenge including tariff impact were
minimized by our strong U.S. based manufacturing presence and our distributed global
manufacturing footprint in the USA, Taiwan in Netherlands.
We also see positive signs with our key product lines such as BigTwin and SuperBlade which
achieved higher sales on both quarterly and yearly basis. Importantly, we see great opportunities
as our long-term investment in operation and improved internal efficiency. And a growth of our
key product lines assume the market demand for application optimized high performance driven
products have not declined.
On our product side, we remain focused on a delivery solution based on our new resource saving
architecture. With Super Micro's unique architecture this aggregates measure major sub-systems
separating compute, storage, I/O power and cooling. Each of these though can be or upgrade
independently allowing data centers to reduce different cycle cost and their impact to the
environment by reducing power consumption and e-waste. Some components such as an
opportunity power price encourage us then IoT devices can remain in deploying for up to 12
years. Further -saving achieved through sheer power and cooling as well as free air cooling
solutions.
On the typical three to four year refresh cycle, Super Micro resource savings bandwidth deliver up
to 30% net hardware cost of bandwidth from each refresh cycle. We continue to deliver products
introducing a first server and storage system that support all-flash EDSFF storage drive. This
optimized NVMe drive deliver up to 6 times more throughput and up to 5 times latency reduction
over traditional flash storage which is ideal for the high performing workload for our application
requiring higher apps such as autonomous driving, search engine, mission critical database,
artificial intelligence, HPC, scientific research and more. We believe EDSFF will become a main
common storage from factor in the near future.
For 5G, Super Micro is committed to providing the most advanced solutions for age, the modern
micro data center and core networks that provide the security, IoT, multiple access edgecomputing. And open radio access network. The need for powerful server across a wide variety
of implementation will only increase (inaudible) continue to grow out on 5G network.
Super Micro H server aims to transform enterprise and they empower them with intelligent
connectivity from IoT device to cloud. AI from H is also made possible, as we provide, optimize
and validated NVIDIA CPU collaborating and EGX platform edge computing solution to our
customers.
Saving the best for last, let me have a brief review of our blending architectures with many
innovations for high-speed connectivity design. These new product line connectivity bandwidth
and computing power and computing (inaudible). Two of these new X86 projects are called
(inaudible) roadmap and mainstream service. The early availability is target of early Q1, 2020.
In summary, we see tremendous potential opportunities in our enterprise, cloud, 5G and AI.
There we're benefited from Super Micro resource savings solution. I'm very confident in the
strength of our product portfolio and continue improvement of our operating fundamentals.
Regarding the market cycle, our business model of first go to market design that delivers
breakthrough innovation in performance efficiency and TCO, achieved some. Moreover, we will
conveniently invest more effort in our strategic relationships to build a stronger presence in key
markets and target the vertical customers. I expect this action will result in continued market
share growth and improvement of our financial performance.
And now I will hand the section over to Kevin.
`Kevin Bauer, SVP, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Charles. First, I will address the current health of the business by providing an
overview of our financial performance for the fourth quarter of 2019. I will then make a few
comments about our progress on our SEC filings.
As Charles mentioned earlier, we estimate our fiscal fourth quarter revenue was within the range
of $825 million to $835 million. Our geographies were lower on a year-over-year basis with EMEA
approximately 14% lower, Asia 19% lower and the U.S. 14% lower. Our estimated range of gross
margin on both the GAAP and non-GAAP basis was from 14.7% to 14.9%. Our margin has steadily
improved since last year and have benefited from improved customer mix, product mix and
better component pricing.
Operating expenses were slightly lower this quarter due to lower reserves for bad debt, offset
by higher sales and marketing expense. We estimate non-GAAP diluted earnings per share
range, this quarter was within the range of $0.57 to $0.61 per share. We continue to generate
cash and estimate cash generated from operations was approximately $81 million.
After deducting CapEx of $11 million, we estimate free cash flow of approximately $70 million for
the quarter. On a cumulative basis over the last four quarters, we estimate free cash flow was
approximately $259 million, this quarter, our cash conversion cycle decreased to 91 days. The
decrease was primarily due to a 21-day decrease in inventory days to 92 days. Actual inventory on
a dollar basis declined sequentially. Our cash conversion cycle target remains 85 to 90 days.
Now let me comment on our progress on our remaining delinquent SEC filings. We recently
completed our work on the fiscal 2018 financials and have submitted them for audit. We're now
working on fiscal 2019 inclusive of the efforts, finalize revenue under both the 605 and 606
revenue recognition standards. And we will be under a two-year engagement with our auditorsfor both fiscal years 2018 and 2019 that will enable some efficiency. The team remains focused on
becoming fully current on our SEC filings.
`Perry G. Hayes, SVP, Investor Relations `
As indicated previously, we will have a Q&A session where sell-side analysts will be permitted to
ask questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, our question-and-answer session will be conducted
electronically. (Operator Instructions) And we'll go first to Mehdi Hosseini from Susquehanna
Financial Group. Please go ahead, sir.
Q - `David Ryzhik, Susquehanna Financial Group `
Its Rick [ph] on for Mehdi. Thanks so much for taking the question. Just a quick question on gross
margins. I believe they were down from the prior quarter, I guess from around 15.5% to 14.7% to
14.9%. Just wondering what the dynamics were over there. Obviously revenue ticked up,
components prices probably ticked down. So just wondering what was driving the decline? And
then I had a follow-up.
A - `Kevin Bauer, SVP, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure, no problem. This is Kevin. Last quarter when we highlighted the fact that we were in the mid
15s, we cautioned the group that we -- it looked like we had a very good quarter in terms of
everything of aligning up perfectly. And as we talked to this same question last quarter, we
highlighted the fact that we were in the mid 13s, not too long ago had broached 14% towards the
mid-year of 2019. And we're in between 14% and 15%. And so, we highlighted that as being some
steady progress as we went through the quarters. So, we highlighted that last quarter things lined
up very, very well. So, I don't necessarily think it's declined, I think that our continued progress,
and it is not perfectly linear.
Q - `David Ryzhik, Susquehanna Financial Group `
And perhaps maybe you can talk about the overall server pricing environment. And maybe
provide an overview of just demand trends that you're seeing in the current quarter and what
your outlook is moving forward? I'd appreciate that. And then I had a follow-up.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Yes, I mean as you know, the head [ph] there is be choppy and macroeconomic that is installed.
However our solution outperform others, especially with cascade lake. There is a product lines
that's available. So we expect our business will continue improving. Although maybe not very fast,
but improving. And especially and the new the technology will be positive sign for our business.
A - `Kevin Bauer, SVP, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. This is Kevin. I think if we put our lens a little bit shorter in time, as we looked at this quarter's
guidance. Certainly, we are observing and are part of the macro situation that many of ourconditions are like, this sometimes visibility is poor. And so, we have those three elements that
were in our mind as we set guidance to this next quarter.
Q - `David Ryzhik, Susquehanna Financial Group `
Got it. Thanks. And then just last one, would love to get an update on where you are in your
enterprise efforts, this is something you've mentioned in the past, as far as building out the
enterprise effort services software, maybe Fortune 500 accounts, just would love an update
there. May be new customer account figures, anything there would be helpful. Thank you.
A - `Perry G. Hayes, SVP, Investor Relations `
Yes. This is Perry. So yes our G2K portion of our business which includes that enterprise section
was approximately 20 -- a little bit better than 20% of the overall revenue. Within that, the
enterprise section was actually up year-over-year by about 12%. So, we're making steady
progress in there with a number of customers that we have and the business that we're doing.
Q - Analyst
Thank you all. I'll get back in the queue.
Operator
We'll take our next question from `Nehal Chokshi, Maxim Group from Maxim Group. Please go ahead.
Q - `Nehal Chokshi, Maxim Group `
Thanks, and congrats on what I think is a fiscal year that represents records on cash from
operations and non-GAAP net income. So you now have a $36 million net cash position, that's
29% of your market cap rate. And based on it, I think on your trailing 12-month midpoint EPS that
you have provided for the past 12 months, looks like you're trading at 5x even in net income. So
are you guys willing to put that cash to work in terms of buybacks, once you're able to i.e. once
you know the 10-Ks are indeed up to date?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Yes, I think if you look at the cash that we have now, certainly we have harvested some of that
from the balance sheet. I think roughly, out of that $259 million working capital harvesting was
roughly about $70 million of that. And we know that they're going to need that soon we continue
to grow again. So, I know this is a question that came up last time. We are just going to continue
to plow forward in terms of understanding what our working capital needs are as growth returns.
We feel pretty strongly about that.
Q - `Nehal Chokshi, Maxim Group `
Okay. And then, that's great that you've submitted the fiscal year '18 financials for finalization by
your auditors. Can you confirm that the submitted financials are within the previously announced
revenue and EPS ranges?
A - `Kevin Bauer, SVP, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes -- no, I'm not going to be able to confirm that. That's not something to address that I can
addresses at this moment.Q - `Nehal Chokshi, Maxim Group `
Okay. I will get back in the queue. Thanks.
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from `Jon Lopez, Vertical Group of Vertical Group. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Jon Lopez, Vertical Group `
Hi. Thanks. Just a couple of clarifications first. Did you guys give us -- or would you give us the
number -- the server system number please? or the percentage of the business that was server
systems?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Yes we said in the script in Charles script that it was about 81% was service. -- I'm sorry, servers.
Q - `Jon Lopez, Vertical Group `
81%. Okay 81%, I'm sorry. I missed that. Thanks. My second question. We don't really have all the
moving pieces I guess, but it looks like OpEx was kind of flattish sequentially? A I'm wondering if
can you confirm that? And then B: just any thoughts on how that ought to trend? obviously you
guys know that the environments not terrific right now, so I'm wondering if you guys are doing
anything proactive for the balance of the year on the OpEx?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
So it was a relatively flattish. We talked about the two components that Wiggled. I think as we
look forward, we will -- we have confidence in a long term business to investments. I don't think
that it would large increases in OpEx so far in line with what we think needs to be investment for
the future.
Q - `Jon Lopez, Vertical Group `
Got you. Okay. Helpful. I was -- this applies to one of the comments you guys made. I apologize, I
can't remember who made it, but some version of the Cascade Lake pacing is ahead of prior
generations. I'm wondering if you could just flush that out a little bit. Maybe not entirely consistent
with what we're picking up elsewhere. So I'm wondering if it's specific to your mix, your SKUs. So if
you guys just could just spend a second on that?
And then in doing so, I know you're not going to give guidance, I'm not asking for it. But as you
think about trending toward the end of the calendar year, any thoughts on just seasonality and
how applicable that maybe, given the environment and given what you're seeing with the
Cascade Lake based projects? Thanks.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Yes, thank you. I mean, as you know we are technology DB company. So when they are --
whenever they have new technology, we had a chance to grow data. Given the macroeconomic,
we have here a little bit choppy in the coming months. So we try to be conservative.However, our Cascade Lake I think very well, especially the new platforms including a big twins
there have been continue growing and we start resource saving, they started to gain more and
more attraction. And like I just mentioned, the recent launched another two new data forms
including and hyper. So although it's in the early stage now we believe in number one and those
new technology. We have growth.
Q - `Jon Lopez, Vertical Group `
If I could just follow up on that -- you make a good point, which is -- you guys have put a lot of
skews out around Cascade Lake, it appears as though significantly more on a relative basis than
your peers have. And So I'm wondering do you -- would you view Cascade Lake is perhaps that
an opportunity for maybe like disproportionate share gain with this cycle? Like ie are your
competitors perhaps less focused on this -- excuse me on this iteration of -- or this portion of the
Intel platform than you guys are?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Yes. You know there are lots of technology kind of guys available including I just mentioned EDSFF
and Samsung those product line continue to gain market share. Although they are pretty new
technologies, but we see a big in near term either late this year or early next year is where the
big change would be. And as to Cascade Lake, we see us be a big room to grow.
Q - `Jon Lopez, Vertical Group `
That's great. Thanks very much. I appreciate it.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from Mehdi Hosseini from Susquehanna Financial Group. Please go
ahead.
Q - Analyst
Hi, David. Richard for Mehdi again. Thanks for taking the follow-up. Just back to gross margins, I
guess moving forward with lower component prices. Should we expect that serve as a tailwind to
gross margins moving forward?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Well, I think the reduction in kind of -- and component prices obviously has slowed down, but
we've gone through a pretty steep ramp as we went through the last few quarters. We're not
going to have that same kind of ramp on a go-forward basis. So I think in terms of it helping us as
one of the components in terms of improving our gross margins, I don't see that's going to be an
insane -- sustained uplift because those prices are -- the reduction in those prices is flattening
out.
Q - `David Ryzhik, Susquehanna Financial Group `
Has that altered your decision making around inventory management as far as memory? Are you
strategically adding components, given the flattening out?A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
I would have to say we have been in this DRAM and then price drop period. So we will continue to
monitor it very closely.
Q - `David Ryzhik, Susquehanna Financial Group `
Great. And then just a question on storage. Would you be able to share the growth in next-gen
storage versus traditional storage and overall storage?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Yes. Indeed. Especially our new storage form factor NF1 is basically our EDSFF based. We have a
function of a new platform and we have of our endorsed in near future and midterm.
Q - `David Ryzhik, Susquehanna Financial Group `
And just lastly Charles, would love to get your take on what you're seeing in hyper scale or
internet data center. I know that's part of the G2000. But would love to hear what trends you're
seeing amongst your customers there?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Not as it be that safety -- but neither that what we share with you, we continue to grow our
economical scale in Taiwan and also USA. So when our scale continue to grow, we'll be more
competitive to beat those larger scale data centers, and we are well prepared enough.
Q - Analyst
Thanks very much.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Nehal Chokshi, Maxim Group of Maxim Group. Please go ahead.
Q - `Nehal Chokshi, Maxim Group `
Yes. So, I think you stated that you expected to have gained market share during the quarter. So,
what do you think the market estimated like because Intel data center group revenue was down
10% year-over-year about their enterprise and government was down 31% year-over-year and
you just said that you guys were up 12% year-over-year on the enterprise side. So just, maybe
give us a sense as far as what do you think the market did? and what portions of that Intel data
center group metric are probably actually most relevant for gauging Super Micro performance?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Nehal, you know it's a -- we don't always track out one-to-one with what their group does mean.
Again if you look at what they're tracking to and what if it would see hyper scale, et cetera. And
what -- that's not a major part of our business, although we have some customers there. The
enterprise would be a separate sort of group there.Q - `Nehal Chokshi, Maxim Group `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
What I'll just say, overall I mean we sell economical scale continue to grow whereas we will be
more aggressive in both enterprise and super scale data center.
Q - `Nehal Chokshi, Maxim Group `
Got it. Thank you.
Operator
It appears at this time, that we have no further questions. I'd like to turn the call back over to
Mr.Liang for any additional or closing comments.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Thank you for joining us today, and have a great day.
Operator
Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. That does conclude the Super Micro fourth quarter fiscal 2019
business update conference call. We do appreciate your participation. You may disconnect at this
time. Thank you.