Q4 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Super Micro Fourth Quarter and Full
Year Fiscal 2021 Earnings Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the
speaker presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions)
Thank you. I would now like to hand the conference over to `Nicole Noutsios, Investor Relations, Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
`Nicole Noutsios, Investor Relations `
Good afternoon, and thank you for attending Super Micro's call to discuss financial results for the
fourth quarter and full year fiscal 2021, which ended June 30, 2021. By now, you should have
received a copy of the news release from the company that was distributed at the close of the
regular trading and is available on the company's website. As a reminder, during today's call, the
company will refer to a presentation that's available to participants in the IR section of the
company's website in the Events and Presentations tab. We've also published management's
scripted commentary on our website.
Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today will consist of
forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those regarding revenue, gross margin,
operating expenses, other income and expenses, taxes, capital allocation and future business
outlook, including the potential impact of COVID-19 in the company's business results of
operations.
There are a number of risk factors that can cause Super Micro's future results to differ materially
from our expectations. You can learn more about these risks in the press release we issued
earlier this afternoon, our most recent 10-K filing for fiscal 2020 and our other SEC filings. All
these documents are available on the IR section of Super Micro's website. We assume no
obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Most of today's presentation refer to non-GAAP financial results and business outlook. For an
explanation of our non-GAAP financial measures, please refer to the accompanying presentation
or to our press release published earlier today. In addition, a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAPresults is contained in today's press release and in the supplemental information attached to
today's presentation.
At the end of today's prepared remarks, we will have a Q&A session for the sell-side analysts to
ask questions. I'll now turn the call over to `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Founder, Chairman and CEO. Charles?
`Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Nicole, and good afternoon, everyone. I am pleased to announce that for the first
time, our quarterly revenue has exceeded $1 billion. For fiscal Q4 2021, we delivered year-over-
year revenue growth of 19.3%. For the whole fiscal year 2021, our revenue grew 6.5%. We have
gained market share and finally resumed faster growth starting from March quarter this year,
after the impact from the past 10-K delay and the COVID-19 challenges. The revenue growth was
driven by some wins from large enterprise customers and large multi-nation high-tech
companies. These customers choose Super Micro because of our green computing technology,
faster time-to-market and plug-and-play total IT solutions, especially in appliance, cloud, AI and
5G markets.
Now let's look at some key highlights from the quarter. Our fiscal first quarter net sales totaled
$1.07 billion, up 19.3%, both year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter at the top end of our
guidance range. This growth rate, I believe, is much higher than that of the industry. All our major
geographies have contributed double-digit year-over-year quarterly growth. Our fiscal first
quarter non-GAAP earnings per share was $0.81, up from $0.68 same period last year. We saw a
significant increase in sales from new and existing large high-profile customers.
Our strong momentum is mainly driven by our business expansion from hardware solution to total
IT solution that consists of hardware, software and service. We have doubled our software
engineering resource in the past 24 months to allow us to swiftly execute this plan. Through
engagement and close collaboration with strategic leading hardware and software partners, we
have provided our customers fully optimized, tested, certified and ready-to-deploy reference
architectures. As a result, large volume order are deployed timely without customers having to go
through a complicated process of hardware validation, software compatibility and supply chain
disruption. It's a win-win for everyone.
Earlier in fiscal Q4, we successfully executed the launch of Intel Ice Lake, AMD Milan and NVIDIA
A100 GPU-based product lines, and began to ship more than 200 application-optimized product
solutions. They are all based on the strong foundation of our Server Building Block Solutions.
These optimized systems are created in-house, leveraging close to three decades of subsystem
innovations, including motherboard, enclosure, power supplies and cooling technologies. What's
more, our security and management software empower customers to deploy, manage and scale
in a timely manner from enterprise to hyperscalers.
On the product side, our new Ice Lake-based X12 generation multiple-node solutions have
gained great traction among customers who are looking to scale out their enterprise and cloud
data centers. From SuperBlade, MicroBlade to BigTwin, FatTwin and the upcoming GrandTwin, all
these resource-saving product lines support a dense NVMe and Optane persistent memory,
flexible GPU and FPGA configurations, providing optimized performance and the best TCO to a
variety of customer workloads.
Our GPU product lines are continuing their strong growth with the explosion of AI, machine
learning application demands. These new Ice Lake and Milan-based GPU product lines support a
larger on-GPU memory and accelerate compute-intensive applications. Our 2U 2-node GPUsystem has proven to be a top seller since its introduction. Thanks to its optimum mix of CPU-to-
GPU ratio and resource-saving features.
Later this year, we will be introducing a brand new universal GPU product line that will provide
even more flexible configuration for many different CPU and GPU module combination, further
pushing the limit of system density and performance up to 50% when compared to competition.
Announced in June during Computex 2021, our plug-and-play Rack product line is an integral part
of our company's solution strategy going forward. These turnkey racks have undergone a
thorough solution-level design and validation process and build security for our AI, 5G telco,
enterprise, cloud and storage customers. Upon receiving these total IT solutions, customers only
need to connect power and networking, then they are immediately ready to run their
applications, shortening the time from making decisions to seeing results.
To further improve sales and operation efficiency, we will launch our auto-configurator tool to
enable B2B/B2C automation, which will be broadly ready to service our customers in the coming
few weeks. This tool makes it faster to achieve product optimization and more efficiently to
leverage the configurations among our sales, engineers, PM and customers.
We recently completed our Taiwan campus expansion. Now with the total 3 million square feet
campus in Taiwan, we are equipped to deliver not only sufficient capacity, supply chain resilience,
but also lower cost structure. Combined with the manufacturing facility in Silicon Valley and the
Netherlands, Super Micro is well positioned to grow market share with economy of scale, agility,
quality and rapid delivery time. To satisfy our customers' faster growing demands, we are
working aggressively across our global supply chain to improve our critical parts shortage.
In summary, Super Micro has been solidly transforming into a total IT solution company from a
server hardware company. In addition to providing the greenest hardware total solution, our
software and service products are now ready for large enterprise, cloud, AI and telco customers.
Second, our Taiwan campus expansion doubles our solution capacity and lowers our cost
structure. Now if we decide to do so, we can start to reduce our expense in Silicon Valley
headquarter, if we select to, I mean. Third, our business automation program, including the auto-
configurator and B2B/B2C systems will significantly improve customer experience by streamlining
our customer configuration and order process, resulting in shortened solution delivery time with
better quality and optimization.
With the above summary, I believe our fiscal year 2022 revenue will reach at least $4.3 billion and
start to grow much faster than the -- than our past four years. In closing, I'm pleased with the
progress of our business transformation, which has started to speed up our business execution in
fiscal 2021. As a total IT solution company, we are now able to grow business much more
efficiently and achieve our $10 billion revenue goal quicker. Perhaps, we are able to pull in from
2026 to 2025 or even sooner.
With that, I will now pass the call to `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Financial Officer, to provide
additional details on the quarter.
`David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Charles. We continue to accelerate in all major areas of the company and exceeded $1
billion in revenue for the quarter, which was at the high end of our guidance range. The growth
was driven by wins from large enterprise customers and key high-tech companies worldwide,
continued strength across all major geographies and solid demand for our products and services.Our fiscal fourth quarter revenue totaled $1.07 billion, reflecting a 19% increase, both on a year-
on-year and quarter-on-quarter basis.
Looking at Super Micro's Q4 revenue in our three market verticals, we achieved $672 million in the
organic enterprise and channel AI and machine learning vertical; $366 million in OEM and large
data center vertical; and $31 million in the 5G/telco, edge/IoT vertical. Systems comprised 78% of
total revenue and the volume of systems shipped was up year-over-year, while the nodes
shipped were down year-over-year. System ASPs increased year-over-year and quarter-on-
quarter.
Performance was strong across all major geographies this quarter. On a year-on-year basis, Asia
increased 25%, U.S. increased 21% and Europe increased 13%, while the rest of the world
decreased 3%. On a sequential basis, U.S. sales increased 30%, Europe increased 14%, Asia
decreased 1%, and the rest of the world increased 7%.
From this point forward, unless otherwise noted, I will be discussing financial metrics on a non-
GAAP basis. Working down the P&L, the Q4 gross margin was 13.7%, down 30 basis points year-
on-year and 10 basis points quarter-on-quarter. We expected our Q4 gross margin to improve 70
basis points, primarily due to discrete costs incurred in Q3. As expected, those costs did not
repeat in Q4. However, expedite fees and higher shipping costs increased by 50 basis points
quarter-over-quarter. As reported by many other companies around the world, supply chain
pressures related to the resurgence of variants of COVID-19 persist.
Turning to operating expenses. Q4 OpEx on a GAAP basis was essentially flat quarter-on-quarter
and decreased 7% year-on-year to $106 million. The decrease year-on-year was caused by a
decrease in incentive bonuses, offset by higher headcount this year, which was primarily in R&D.
On a non-GAAP basis, operating expenses increased 4% quarter-on-quarter and increased 9%
year-on-year to $99 million. The quarter-on-quarter and year-on-year increases were related to
headcount and other personnel costs as we continue to invest in human capital to address our
growth opportunities.
Other income and expenses, including interest expense, which was a $2.1 million loss as
compared to a $1.4 million gain last quarter. The sequential change is mostly related to FX. This
quarter, our tax benefit was $1.6 million on a GAAP basis and an expense of $1.8 million on a non-
GAAP basis. Our non-GAAP tax rate was 4% for the quarter.
Lastly, our share of income from our JV was $0.6 million this quarter as compared to a loss of
$0.3 million last quarter. Q4 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share totaled $0.81 as compared to
$0.50 in Q3 of fiscal '21 and $0.68 in the same quarter of last year. Cash flow from operations
totaled $64 million compared to cash flow used in operations of $124 million in Q3. CapEx totaled
$13 million, which is resulting in free cash flow of $50 million. Key uses of cash during the quarter
included increases to inventory and receivables, while key providers of cash included an increase
of $144 million in accounts payable and $12 million in deferred revenues. The increase in deferred
revenue was due to higher sales of our service contracts. We also used $12 million to repurchase
shares this quarter. Our closing balance sheet cash position was $232 million, while bank debt was
$98 million, resulting in a net cash balance of $134 million.
Turning to the balance sheet and working capital metrics compared to last quarter. Our Q4 cash
conversion cycle was 80 days, which was down from 86 in Q3, beating our target range of 85 to
90 days. While the absolute level of our inventory increased, days of inventory at 96 days
decreased. Days sales outstanding was 37 days, while days payables outstanding totaled 53
days.Now turning to the outlook for our business. We expect net sales in a range of $900 million to
$980 million. GAAP -- which is GAAP diluted net income -- which results in GAAP diluted net
income per share of between $0.16 and $0.36 and non-GAAP diluted net income per share of
$0.28 to $0.48 for the first quarter of fiscal year '22, which ends September 30, 2021. We expect
gross margins to remain at similar levels sequentially in Q1 with upside potential as we continue to
manage supply chain costs and maintain price discipline.
Over the upcoming quarters, we expect to achieve margins within our target model as we further
scale out our Taiwan operations and begin to gain traction from our new product offerings and
auto-configurator B2B and B2C solutions. GAAP operating expenses are forecast to be
approximately $110 million and includes $7 million in stock-based compensation expenses and $1
million in other expenses not included in non-GAAP operating expenses. We expect other income
and expense, including interest expense, to total roughly $2 million and expect a nominal
contribution from our JV.
Non-GAAP operating expenses are forecasted to be up quarter-on-quarter from continued
investment in R&D, lower NRE expected and higher personnel costs. The company's projections
for GAAP and non-GAAP diluted net income per share both assume a tax rate of approximately
16% and a fully diluted share count of 53.7 million shares for GAAP and 55 million shares for non-
GAAP.
The outlook for Q1 of fiscal year '22 GAAP diluted net income per common share includes
approximately $8 million in expected stock-based compensation and other expenses, net of
taxes, that are excluded from non-GAAP diluted net income per common share.
We expect net sales in a range of $4.1 billion to $4.5 billion, GAAP diluted net income per share of
at least $2.60 and non-GAAP diluted net income per share of at least $3 for fiscal year '22, which
ends June 30, 2022. The company's projections for GAAP and non-GAAP diluted net income per
share both assume a tax rate of approximately 16% and a fully diluted share count of 55.3 million
shares for GAAP and 56.5 million shares for non-GAAP. The outlook for fiscal year '22 GAAP
diluted net income per share includes approximately $30 million in expected stock-based
compensation and other expenses, net of taxes, that are excluded from GAAP diluted net
income per common share. We expect CapEx for the fiscal first quarter of 2022 of approximately
$14 million to $16 million.
Nicole, I'll turn it back to you for Q&A.
`Nicole Noutsios, Investor Relations `
Operator, you can open the line up for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group with
SIG. Your line is open.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group `
Yes. Thanks for taking the question. I have a couple of follow-ups. If I were to take the midpoint of
the guide range for fiscal year '22, it seems like maybe there is a little bit of leverage in theoperating profit. In other words, maybe 200 basis points of improvement to get to $3 of
earnings. What I want to understand is, what are the key assumptions for component costs? Is
this a base case or a very conservative case? And I have a follow-up to that.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
I would rather say, it's based on conservative base because our supply chain continue to be very
tight. And although we have a good relationship with all of our suppliers, but anyway, it's a global
strategic program, so it's a conservative base. But because our operation now able to
dramatically expanded to Taiwan, so that will lower our overall cost.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group `
Right. So where is the most -- what segment of the supply chain you're experiencing the most
shortage? What are the key components that you relatively have the most difficult time
procuring?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
IC chip, especially I/O chip.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group `
Okay. And a question on the cash flow. What is the depreciation and amortization for the
reported June quarter? And what should we assume for fiscal year '22?
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
So I'd like get back to you, Mehdi on that.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group `
Okay. Given the CapEx growth in fiscal year '21, almost $60 million, and the build-out of a Taiwan
facility, should we expect CapEx to moderate from here?
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Absolutely.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, because our Taiwan operation is pretty much ready. We add about 200 staff in Taiwan in the
last three months, and all of the people have been well trained, and they just moved into the new
building last month. Other than that, our business automation, as we just mentioned for B2B/B2C
and the auto-configurator, we hire people and train people, and they are about all ready and start
to offer service to certain customers. And we will broadly apply to all our customers in the next
few weeks.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group `
Okay, great. I'll get back into the queue.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
So the investments have been there.Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group `
So Charles, are you implying that the CapEx should decline in fiscal year '22?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Maybe because we are growing. I mean 2022, '23, '24, we expect continue to grow. So I guess
the operation expense won't shrink, but may grow very kind of consistently, but limited growth
because we already invested there.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group `
Okay. All right. Thank you. I'll get back into the queue. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Nehal Chokshi, Northland Securities with Northland. Your line is open.
Q - `Nehal Chokshi, Northland Securities `
Yes. Thank you. And congratulations on strong results, especially on free cash flow. We were
expecting a drain based on the commentary from last quarter and generate very nice free cash
flow. It looks like the big delta relative to our expectations was in increasing days payable. And
given this environment of constrained component environment, I mean how was this pulled off
basically?
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
So Nehal, we did have a lot of inventory that came in at the -- near the end of the quarter. And so
that's what caused accounts payable to rise and with a resultant rise in DPO.
Q - `Nehal Chokshi, Northland Securities `
Okay.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
And now, I consider it positive to keep kind of a high inventory, because we strongly believe our
customer needed those products.
Q - `Nehal Chokshi, Northland Securities `
All right.
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
And so, we entered --
Q - `Nehal Chokshi, Northland Securities `
Go ahead, sorry. Please.
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
All right. And so, you can tell from our forecast -- from our revenue forecast that our sales are nothand, which was why I alluded to the challenges of cash flow, for this projecting cash flow for Q4,
but we ended up in a good position.
Q - `Nehal Chokshi, Northland Securities `
I see. So I guess, because we built up the inventory at the end of the quarter to satisfy the strong
demand you're seeing in the September quarter, and the balance sheet is showing up as
increased days payable, but what you're saying is that your days payable terms actually didn't
increase. It's just simply the timing of which you received the inventory.
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
That's exactly right.
Q - `Nehal Chokshi, Northland Securities `
Got it. Okay. Understood. Okay. And I don't recall the last time you guys gave full year guidance.
I'm not sure if you ever have before, but certainly, I don't think you did during fiscal year '21 or
fiscal year '20 or past few years, when you're on 10-K filing delay hell. So what has changed to
give you visibility to guide on a full year basis? And importantly, almost 10% above the consensus
estimate?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Not much reason. But pretty much because we have a successful expansion in Taiwan and also
business automation, including auto-configurator and B2B/B2C tool. And also company expanding
from a hardware solution company to a total IT solution company. So we saw it's a good idea to
offer the market kind of a more complete picture for the whole year and in the future.
Q - `Nehal Chokshi, Northland Securities `
Okay. All right. And in this midpoint 20% growth guidance for fiscal year '22, is this tied to any sort
of industry growth expectation?
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
I'm sorry. What was the last part of your question? Is it tied to what?
Q - `Nehal Chokshi, Northland Securities `
Is it tied to server industry growth, any sort of server industry growth expectation? Or is it
independent of server industry growth?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Not quite. Not quite. As we mentioned, we had returned to a faster growth business model. If you
remember before 2017, before our 10-K delay, our growth always has been 2 times to 4 times
faster than our industry, and we believe we have returned to that faster growth business more
than now. So start from March and June last quarter, we started to outperform than the industry.
And I believe we will start to outperform the industry growth rate, maybe double or triple or even
more, looking for growth. So we are gaining back share in the overall.
Q - `Nehal Chokshi, Northland Securities `Yes. Undoubtedly, clearly. But is there a particular industry growth rate that you are expecting in
order to drive that 20% year-over-year growth i.e. 5%, 10%, 2%? Care to provide thoughts on that
there?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
We believe that industry may grow 5% to 10%, right? And our growth rate should be double to
quadruple of that, hopefully.
Q - `Nehal Chokshi, Northland Securities `
Okay. Great. And then my final question is that the minimum $3 per share, does that correspond
to a low end of the revenue guidance or to the midpoint of revenue guidance?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
I would rather say it's a conservative number.
Q - `Nehal Chokshi, Northland Securities `
Okay. Great. Thank you. I'll see you at the floor.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital with Loop Capital. Your line is open.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital `
Hey. Good afternoon, guys. Thanks for taking the question. And congratulations on the strong
revenue execution and the visibility to put out a -- put out the long-term or the fiscal year rev
guide here. I guess a couple for me, if I could. David, could you just walk back through the
components that you spoke to on gross margin? I just want to make sure that I'm straight on
those. And then I have a quick follow-up as well.
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Certainly. So when we finished last quarter at 13.8%, we had some about 70 basis points of
discrete costs, and which included some shipping costs as well. But mainly it was principally
discrete -- some discrete cost that we didn't expect to occur. So this quarter, those did not occur,
but we did have 50 basis points more of shipping costs. And it was really caused by our directed
effort to deliver products to our customers on time and because that's what our customers
expect and demand. So, that's really the reason that we were not able to raise margin up higher,
that's just because these --
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital `
I got it.
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes.Q - `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital `
Got it. Cool. And so if you lost the 70, so that took you to 13.1%. And then -- I got it. And then you -
- sorry, you lost 70, and then you gave 77, it take you to 14.5% or so. And then you had 50 more.
So that took you -- that would have taken you back down to 14%. And then was there -- I think I'm
doing that math right? Correct me if I'm wrong. And then was there an incremental 30 basis point
headwind that brought it down to the 13.7%?
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, there was. We had two things: one, we had deferred revenue that we added to our balance
sheet of about $12 million. So we had to carve out some income for our services, and we also had
-- just the rest was just product mix, Ananda.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital `
Got it. Got it. Okay. And then like how should we -- what are the sort of the pushes and the pulls?
You made mention in the prepared remarks that you expect in the coming quarters to move up
into the 14% to 17% range. What are the pushes and pulls there? And if there's any way to give
them by order of magnitude, that would be helpful also.
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. Absolutely. So we realize that with the Delta variants, it's hard to say that COVID is over. And
so therefore, we expect to continue to have challenges on supply chain shipping costs. However,
we do expect our other initiatives such as our transition over to Taiwan and our new product
offerings, especially in those verticals that have attractive -- more attractive gross margins as well
as our B2B and B2C configurator, we expect the benefit of those things to start to come to the
business in the upcoming quarters. So in the short run, we know that Taiwan has gone online.
However, it's going to take a couple of quarters to start to realize benefits.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital `
Any -- could we -- I'm sure I'm not the only one sort of intrigued about this. Any chance we can
get you to give us some sense of -- for fiscal '22, what the gross margin could look like?
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
So we've given guidance on the top line and the bottom line, but we're not going -- other than
the fact that we expect gross margins to improve, we're not giving further guidance.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital `
I got it. But it's not unreasonable to think that you would be in the range by the end of the year,
end of fiscal '21?
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Our target is to go -- and I think this is in the notes, our target is to be back within our range
by -- during the year. Yes, our range, by the way, was 14% to 17%, yes.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital `
I'll get back in the queue here. I appreciate it. That's really helpful. Thanks.Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Aaron Rakers, Wells Fargo with Wells Fargo. Your line is open.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Wells Fargo `
Yes. Hey, guys. Thanks for taking the questions and congrats on the quarter. I'm just curious as the
industry, not just you guys, but the industry in whole deals with supply chain shortages,
semiconductor IC shortages, et cetera. I'm curious on your side of the business, have you been
able to invoke your own customers to provide you with extended lead times? And has that
provided you with better visibility? And then on the heels of that, kind of tied to that question is, is
the guidance for this current quarter assuming that you would have actually outperformed that
number if you were able to get all of the supply to meet demand? Put it another way, are you
able to meet demand as you see it in the current quarter?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Very good question. Again, although we try whatever possible we could, but still we cannot get
whatever we want. So we cannot ship all the demand to our customer. But I would like to say, we
can ship most of that. Maybe customers still had waited longer than the regular time. And the
good thing is we have a lot of repeat customers, older customers. So they understand the global
difficulty. So a longer lead time is, people don't like to see that, but basically, they are
cooperating. So we cannot ship whatever customer need, but basically, the customers are happy
with our pace for service.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Wells Fargo `
And what is your current view of expectations of when that normalizes? Does your fiscal '22
guidance reflect the view that the tightness in the semiconductor supply chain starts to normalize
through this fiscal year? Or do you think it's out further than that? Just curious of what your
thoughts are.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I mean as I shared before and now, traditionally, our growth rate was double to quadruple
faster than the industry. And I believe we already get back to that momentum, double to
quadruple faster than the industry. But because of the global shortage, that impact our growth a
little bit for sure. And that's why we are humbled to say, maybe $4.3 billion. If not because of big
shortage globally, I believe our growth will be much better than that.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Wells Fargo `
Yes. Yes. And then the final quick question is, there's a lot of architectural things going on in the
server and the universe around semiconductors and so on. I'm curious of how -- what kind of
growth that you're seeing in GPU accelerated server platforms? And do you think that there's a
longer-term narrative that we're at the point where actually, the richness of the server
configurations can really drive a positive upward trend in blended ASPs for foreseeable future?
I'm just curious to how you're seeing compute architectures evolve that maybe benefits you guys
from a growth perspective.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. As a technology company based on Silicon Valley, we like a technical challenge. We like newthat's a big change to us. And that's why I just mentioned, we will introduce GrandTwin, a brand-
new architecture to the market, very soon. And we also are designing a universal GPU platform,
and that will be ready by end of this year. So all of those is to provide a much more flexible kind
of -- to support multiple different CPUs vendor, multiple different GPU vendor and different form
factor. So all our platform indeed will benefit our customers. And thank you to our building block
solution, we are able to kind of skillfully kind of optimize all the different configuration by our new
architecture, and especially, GrandTwin and kind of universal GPU solution. So we are very happy,
very excited to see that opportunity.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Wells Fargo `
That's great. Thank you very much.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Jon Tanwanteng, CJS Securities with CJS Securities. Your line is open.
Q - `Jon Tanwanteng, CJS Securities `
Hi. Good afternoon, guys, and great quarter and also the outlook is pretty impressive. I wanted to
drill down on a previous question just on how you have confidence in that $4.2 billion in revenue. Is
that a bottoms-up analysis with like qualified customer lead indications of interest, contracts that
may have already been signed? Or is there more orders that you actually have to go out and get
before you can achieve that? I'm wondering how you built for that.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
It's both bottom up and top down. From both directions, we see that growth will be very strong.
Again, if not because of global shortage, our growth should be much better than that. And with
better products, with our Taiwan operation, and with also many more new engaged high-profile
customer we achieved in the last six months and currently. So we feel pretty optimistic over there.
Q - `Jon Tanwanteng, CJS Securities `
Okay. Great. And I was going to ask, how do you feel about your ability to pass price through in
this environment? You talked about expedited shipping. I know that you were doing airfreight last
quarter just to get things to customers on time. I would think that everyone knows at this point
that it's impossible to get things without paying for extra shipping charges. So I'm wondering if
you're planning on surcharges or other pricing methods to be able to pass that through to the
customers? And if so, are they receptive to it?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Very good question and a complicated question, too. So we try whatever possible to
communicate to customers. But overall, we had observed, I would have to say, at least 50% of
that, well, maybe plus 50% of customers. So we try to kind of provide the customer a very
competitive way so that we can grow market share as well.
Q - `Jon Tanwanteng, CJS Securities `Okay. Great. Maybe just one final one on pricing. When do you think you can catch up on pricing
just to the higher input costs? Is it a quarter? Or is it two? How should we think of the lag time
before you're able to absorb all of that?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Again, it's a complicated question because of the pandemic, Delta variant still going on. So -- but
once the COVID-19 ends, I believe we will recover to normal. But before that, we are getting able
to pass those overhead actual cost to customers. Like what I said, maybe 50-50 in last quarter,
and we will be getting better. But hopefully, COVID-19 program can be -- end very soon. So we
will get back to normal automatically.
Q - `Jon Tanwanteng, CJS Securities `
Okay, great. Thank you, and congrats again.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Lopez with The Vertical Group. Your line is open.
Q - `John Lopez, Vertical Group `
Hi, thanks very much. Can you hear me all right?
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, we can hear you.
Q - `John Lopez, Vertical Group `
Okay. Sorry. That's great. I had phone trouble. Sorry about that. Thanks, David. So I guess I have
two. I wanted to come back for a second to the fiscal Q1 guidance, and maybe to come at it this
way. I thought in some remarks you made, you referenced like not declining in fiscal Q1. But I
guess as we calculate it, it's actually a bit below your normal seasonal trending pattern, and that's
after being pretty comfortably above that pattern in the last two quarters, so both fiscal Q3 and
fiscal Q4. So I guess my question is, one, are we looking at those numbers differently than you
are? Maybe just step me through what you meant when you said not declining. And then two, is
there any constraint on your revenue guidance relative to component or logistical issues?
Perhaps, if you could quantify that. Thanks.
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. I think that -- I think what our range does is our range allows for the struggles that we face in
the supply chain. So therefore, we feel like we provided a broad enough range that we can
overachieve, and we can also -- but we feel comfortable with that range.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
I guess one -- the other factor is that because last year, COVID-19 reason, we did not adjust the
employee salary that much. So this year, we have a much bigger salary adjustment for
employees. That's why you see -- Q1 and Q2, you may see our expense grow. One of the bigportion because of salary adjustments and also Taiwan expansion. So we hired people in Taiwan
and trained people, but they will be ready to contribute to our revenue and profitability soon.
Q - `John Lopez, Vertical Group `
Okay, thanks. Yes, I guess that helps a bit. I guess my other question, just to come back to the
gross margin for a second. So to arrive at this $3 figure or north of $3 figure, especially based on
what you're referencing in OpEx there, Charles. I mean, the gross margin does need, I think, to
be pretty close to 15% as we get out of calendar Q3 and into the remainder of your fiscal year. I
guess, why do you think -- like do any of these things feel as though you have line of sight to
them ending as we look beyond calendar Q3? And if not, are you committing that you get to $3
some other way? Like will you rein back on OpEx or just maybe walk us through the interplay
between why you might have comfort in the $3 number, if you don't have visibility to some of
these logistical issues or cost issues abating.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
David handles that.
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. So one of the things that helps our cost structure again is the movement of our production
over to Taiwan. So that's -- we expect that to give us benefit as well as the traction in our new
product offerings, which we expect to bring higher margins than the traditional server business.
So those are the factors that we have insight into and give us confidence that in spite of supply
chain challenges, which we've managed to meet, and in spite of higher costs, which we -- in
terms of shipping and airfreight, which we've continued to deal with, we still believe that through
price management that we can achieve the margins which will allow us to deliver the targets that
we are forecasting.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. The other way to answer your question more directly is that we expect our growth will be
significant in fiscal year '22 and '23. And we are very confident to see that happen. But if in case it
does not happen, then that mean we have too much of resource now. So we may refuse some
resource in our USA headquarter. I hope we don't have to do so, but if we had to, we will. And we
have that option. So that will have reduced our operation cost ratio, but I hope we don't have to
go for that way.
Q - `John Lopez, Vertical Group `
Okay, understood. Thanks for the thoughts guys. I appreciate it.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
You have a follow-up question from `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group with SIG. Your line is open.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group `Thank you. Just a quick follow-up. I want to get your view on the current memory prices. How do
you see the trend over the next one or two quarters? And I'm asking you about availability and
the pricing trends?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
A very complicated question but very good question. Yes, it's hard to predict. But this movement,
we see that availability is getting better than last quarter. So the price changes should be less
than before. And as to when the price will stop growing or the price were going down, we watch
very carefully. So at this moment, no clear date. But at least, we feel it's better than last quarter.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group `
Sure. Okay.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
It is much better.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group `
Yes. Thanks for the color. I know it's very difficult to look beyond a couple of months. As you think
about your FY '22 revenue guide, how should I think about incremental opportunities? There are a
lot of AI-type projects that hyperscalers are expected to ramp. Do you think your FY '22 revenue
guide capture some of them? Or should we wait for FY '23 to have it -- to see a more meaningful
material contribution?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Good question. I mean, for AI, we grew very well in fiscal year '21. In year '22, I believe we will
continue to grow very well, maybe more than 50%, I hope, right? And for telco, telco is another
territory we grew very well last year. And I believe this year, 2022, our telco business will grow
much better than even last year. So that's a very strong area for us. As to hyperscale, with our
Taiwan operation now is ready, so we have a chance to start to service some hyperscale
customers, if we select to. But I believe we will be very selective. For some diligent customer,
when we can provide the value, we will.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group `
And Charles, when you talked about AI, does that include kind of the ARM-based ASIC CPU? Or
do you lump that into the hyperscaler segment?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Very usual question. But yes, we have some ARM design as well. So if a customer really prefer
ARM solution, we have some solution there under development.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group `
Okay. So when you talk about AI, it's not necessarily an ARM-based solution, it's more general,
right?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
No. Mainly, still Intel and AMD-based. Intel and AMD GPU, NVIDIA.Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group `
Sure. Sure. But when you reference hyperscalers, that's predominantly ARM-based solutions?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Not necessarily. I mean, a hyperscale to us is still X86 mainly.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group `
Okay. All right. Got it. Okay. So it's -- we can't really isolate it because perhaps, it is just too early
to determine on this independent ARM-based solution, right?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
When customers needed that, we will have been ready.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group `
Got it. Okay. Thanks for the details. Appreciate it.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
And for the last question, we have a follow-up from `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital with Loop Capital. Your line is
open.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital `
Hey. Thanks guys for the follow-up. Yes, just wanted to ask, any context you can give us about
how to think about revenue seasonality through fiscal year '22? Will there be a seasonal pattern?
Or will it be -- I mean there will be a seasonal pattern, but will it be different than usual and fairly
ratable on a year-over-year basis? Thanks.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. As you may know, right, September always our weak season. So this year, no exception,
right? Although we have a strong demand, but global shortage. That's major reason we try to be
conservative when we share the number with you for September quarter.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital `
And then, Charles, through the rest of the year, should we just assume typical seasonality to get
into the guidance range?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, basically. Traditionally, December and June, always our good quarter.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital `
Awesome. Okay, great. I appreciate it. Thanks a lot.A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for joining. You may now disconnect.