Q4 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to Super Micro Computer, Inc's
Fiscal Fourth Quarter 2022 Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to
prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer
session. (Operator Instructions) Thank you.
`Nicole Noutsios, Investor Relations, Investor Relations. You may begin your conference
`Nicole Noutsios, Investor Relations `
Good afternoon and thank you for attending Super Micro's call to discuss financial results for the
fourth quarter which ended June 30, 2022. With me today are `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Founder, Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer; and `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Financial Officer.
By now, you should have received a copy of the news release from the company that was
distributed at the close of regular trading and is available on the company's website. As a
reminder, during today's call, the company will refer to a presentation that is available to
participants in the investor relations section of the company's website under events and
presentations tab. We've also published management's scripted commentary on our website.
Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today will consist of
forward-looking statements, including without limitation those regarding revenue, gross margin,
operating expenses, other income and expenses, taxes, capital allocation, and future business
outlook, including guidance for the first quarter of fiscal year 2023 and the full fiscal year of 2023,
and the potential impact of COVID-19 on the company's business and results of operations.
There are a number of risk factors that can cause Super Micro's future results to differ materially
from our expectations. You can learn more about these risks in the press release we issued
earlier this afternoon, our most recent 10-K filing for fiscal 2021, and our other SEC filings. All of
these documents are available on the IR page of Super Micro's website. We assume no
obligation to update any forward-looking statements. Most of today's presentation will refer to
non-GAAP financial results and business outlook. For an explanation of our non-GAAP financial
measures, please refer to the accompanying presentation or to our press release published
today. In addition, a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP results is contained in today's press
release and in the supplemental information attached in today's presentation. At the end of
today's prepared remarks, we'll have a Q&A session for sell-side analysts to ask questions.I'll now turn the call over to Charles.
`Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Nicole, and good afternoon, everyone. Today, I am pleased to announce record year
end results with annual revenue surpassing a milestone of $5.2 billion, growing 46% year-over-
year. We ended the year with another great quarter with fiscal Q4 2022 revenues of $1.64 billion,
growing 53% year-over-year and 21% quarter-on-quarter, surpassing both top and bottom-line
estimates. Our quarterly and year-end results were above our guidance given three months ago
and exceeded our recently updated range given several weeks ago.
Our strong growth is fueled by recent ramp in design wins based on our rack-scale Total IT
Solutions, especially on GPU solutions and AI platforms. And I believe our solutions will continue to
drive plenty of new design wins and further accelerate our strong growth in the coming quarters
and years. More customers are also recognizing and adopting the value of our Green Computing
Solutions due to the rising environmental challenges and energy cost. The Total Solution strategy
and Green Computing Solution value have resulted in four consecutive quarters of growth at
minimum 3x faster than competitors' growth rate.
Now, let's look at some of the key highlights from the year and quarter. First, our quarter 2022
net revenue totaled $5.2 billion, up 46% year-on-year, above our guidance range of $5 billion. Our
fiscal year non-GAAP earnings per share of $5.65 grew 128% year-over-year, compared to $2.48 a
year ago. This exceeded the higher end of our guidance range of $4.53 to $4.71. Our fiscal fourth-
quarter net revenue totaled $1.64 billion, up 53% year-on-year and up 21% quarter-on-quarter,
above our guidance range of $1.4 billion to $1.48 billion. Our fiscal fourth quarter non-GAAP
earnings per share tripled year-over-year and was $2.62 compared to $0.81 a year ago and was
well above the high end of our guidance range of $1.51 to $1.69 and demonstrates the strong
operating leverage and customer preference towards our rack-scale Total IT Solutions.
With our Total IT Solutions business experience a robust growth in the USA this year, we will
continue to gain even greater domestic traction going forward. We will also expand our Total IT
solution to both Europe and Asia markets in the coming quarters and years. We are excited at this
generational opportunity to become the global leader of rack-scale plug-and-play IT solutions.
Our robust fiscal year results reinforce our confidence in achieving the $10 billion in annual
revenue target much sooner than we guided last year, and we are now preparing for our $20
billion midterm mission that we discussed last quarter.
Based on our current supply and capacity, at least -- at a midpoint of our guidance range, we are
forecasting $1.57 billion in revenue for the coming September quarter. I am also confident that our
full fiscal 2023 revenue will be above the prior guidance range of $6 billion to $7 billion. We now
expect revenue to be in the range of $6.2 billion to $7 billion, with EPS at least $7.50. Although our
macroeconomic conditions are uncertain, we are optimistic that some of the supply chain and
logistics issues will begin to subside.
From a market perspective, we continue to see increasing demand for accelerating compute and
AI platforms. We are meeting this demand at a both system and rack-scale level with our Total IT
Solutions, which are supported by over twenty years of system building block development.
These building blocks allow us to create highly optimized rack-scale plug-and-play datacenter
solutions for our customers with lower infrastructure cost and increase in significant TCO savings.
Our Total IT Solutions approach streamlines design, validation, sourcing and integration, resulting
in much shorter lead times for our customers with optimized quality and performance. Moreover,
our Total IT Solutions simplifies the intricacies of firmware, management software and divisionIn addition, our SuperCloud Composer, Orchestrator, security and other software products can
optimally manage compute, acceleration, storage and network building blocks at cloud scale,
including rich analytics. Datacenter operators can easily leverage this information to make critical
decisions that improve workload efficiencies. Soon, we are expanding our investments in full
datacenter management software stacks that will enable future infrastructure-as-a-service and
secure monitoring-as-a-service functionalities, further enhancing our Total IT Solutions capabilities
and value. This one-stop-shop approach well-aligned with emerging growth markets across AI,
machine learning, software-defined storage/networking, public and hybrid cloud, and
5G/IoT/Telco.
We previously shared that we will soon be deploying our Command Center-based intelligent
business automation. This new B2B/B2C automation platform is being used and validated by
more and more of our customers as we speak. This intelligent auto-configurator will leverage our
system building block methodology, scaling out application-optimized solutions to a much
broader customer base. We expect this tool will dramatically improve our go to market initiatives,
product designs, operations, and service effectiveness. Most importantly, the automation process
will considerably grow our customer base and improve customer satisfaction starting from, April
March, this fiscal year.
Our current manufacturing scale and capacity is built to support between $10 billion to $12 billion
in annual revenue as we continue to ramp up our rack-scale capabilities in our global facilities.
During the June quarter, we shipped over a 1,000 plug-and-play racks. Today, in the September
quarter, we have doubled our rack-scale capacity with enhanced features at our new Building 23.
Our rack scaled capacity can be up to 6,000 racks per quarter now. Our product development
activities continue to grow strongly with close partners like NVIDIA, expanding our GPU system
product lines including the new Delta Next H100, Redstone Next and Grace Hopper product lines.
Our early deployment programs with the upcoming Intel Sapphire Rapids and AMD Genoa
product lines are mostly ready, just awaiting for the new Intel and AMD processors to be
available.
Switching gears, we stay committed to lead the market in Green Computing Solutions with our
resource saving designs, both to reduce environmental impact and the cost of customers'
operations. As we apply our Green Computing Solutions at rack-scale level, we can bring even
better quality and time-to-market value to our customers. Higher energy costs and limitations on
electricity usage will continue to strain many companies in the near future. We saw this dynamic
and challenges since a decade ago, and we have been at the forefront with technologies and
solutions that help customers go for higher temperature operation data centers, free-air cooling
or liquid cooling. Many of our customers have achieved significant TCO and PUE reduction in their
data centers, down to 1.05 from industry's average of 1.57 or even higher.
By our calculations, worldwide adoption of our Green Computing Solutions, or other suppliers'
solutions with similar energy efficiency, would potentially save the IT industry more than $10 billion
in electricity costs yearly or eliminating the equivalent of more than 30 fossil-fueled power plants.
That equates to saving 8 billion trees on our planet. Personally, I am very glad to see increased
demand for energy efficient solutions for cost savings, but more importantly, we must do this for
our mother earth.
In closing, we are focused on building and delivering much more greener, rack-scale Total IT
Solutions. From an industry perspective, this is the greatest opportunity Super Micro has ever
seen since our founding 29 years ago. Our year-over-year top and bottom-line performance is
evidence that our Total IT Solutions strategy is accelerating. I see our room to grow is at least
another 4x in the coming years while we believe that our TAM will continue to expand with newapplications. We will continue to address this technology intersection by enhancing our Total IT
Solutions capabilities and capacities with more software and services. We will continue to gain
market share and expand to new verticals, which increase our business scale and operating
profits. My teams and I will continue to execute our growth strategies and are accelerating the
timeline to our $10 billion revenue target in short term and $20 billion midterm mission.
I will now pass the call to `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Financial Officer, to provide additional details
on the quarter.
`David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Charles. I am pleased to report fiscal fourth quarter revenues of $1.64 billion, a 53%
year-on-year and 21% quarter-on-quarter increase. Our revenues exceeded our initial guidance
range of $1.4 billion to $1.48 billion and our recently updated range of $1.58 billion to $1.63 billion.
For Fiscal 2022, we reported revenues of $5.2 billion, representing 46% growth over fiscal year
'21 revenues of $3.56 billion. Our growth initiatives are gaining momentum with our Total IT
Solutions targeting fast-growing markets and customers with accelerated GPU and AI workloads,
software-defined storage and networking, public and hybrid cloud, and 5G/Edge/IOT platforms.
These new growth drivers complement our traditional strength with enterprise/channel and OEM
customers, leading to accelerated revenue growth, expanding margins and operating leverage.
In the fourth fiscal quarter, Super Micro recorded balanced revenues across all three of our
market verticals demonstrating the resilient nature of our diversified end markets. We achieved
$835 million in organic enterprise and channel and AI/ML revenues, representing 51% of Q4
revenues versus 62% last quarter, up 24% year-over-year and flat quarter-over-quarter. The year-
over-year growth in this segment was driven by our growing list of large enterprise customers
and new product offerings. Our OEM appliance and large datacenter segment achieved $717
million in revenues, representing 44% of Q4 revenues versus 32% last quarter, up 95% year-over-
year and up 67% quarter-over-quarter with strong growth driven by large new and existing data
center customers and OEM appliance customers. Our 5G/Telco/Edge/IoT segment achieved $83
million in revenues, representing 5% of Q4 revenues versus 6% last quarter, and was up 172%
year-over-year and down slightly by 4% quarter-over-quarter.
For the full fiscal year 2022, our organic enterprise and channel and AI/ML revenues grew 40% to
represent 61% of fiscal year '22 revenues. Our OEM appliance and large data center segment
grew 44% and represented 32% of revenues. Our emerging 5G/Telco/Edge/IOT segment grew
163% and represented 7% of total revenues.
Our mix of complete systems and rack-scale Total IT Solutions has been increasing steadily.
Systems comprised 91% of total revenue and subsystems/accessories represented 9% of Q4
revenues. On a year-over-year basis and also on a quarter-over-quarter basis, the volume of
systems and nodes shipped as well as system node ASPs increased due to product and
customer mix.
We had a balanced distribution of Q4 revenues across geographies, with U.S. representing 66%
of revenues, Asia 17%, Europe 14%, and Rest of the World 3%. On a year-on-year basis, U.S.
revenues increased 65% as we gained market share with our advanced, rack-scale Total IT
Solutions for emerging high-growth server workloads. Asia increased 38%, Europe increased 21%,
and the Rest of the World increased 84%. On a quarter-over-year basis, U.S. revenues increased
41%, Asia decreased 9%, Europe increased 9%, and Rest of the World decreased 30%.
The Q4 non-GAAP gross margin was 17.6%, up 200 basis points quarter-over-quarter from Q3higher factory utilization, operating efficiencies and a continually improving product/customer mix.
While the supply chain disruptions continued, we achieved some success in controlling freight and
other logistics costs through disciplined execution. Our Q4 gross margin was above the high end
of our long-term target model range of 14% to 17% and demonstrates the success of our new,
high-value Total IT Solutions.
Turning to operating expenses, Q4 OpEx on a GAAP basis increased slightly by 1% quarter-on-
quarter and 15% year-on-year to $122 million. On a non-GAAP basis, operating expenses
increased 4% quarter-on-quarter and increased 15% year-on-year to $113.5 million. Our non-GAAP
operating margin increased significantly to 10.7% for the quarter versus 7.5% last quarter and
4.4% a year ago, demonstrating both improvements in gross margins driven by new product and
customer mix and operating leverage driven by higher revenues along with disciplined expense
controls. Our non-GAAP operating margin of 10.7% for Q4 was above our target model range of
5% to 8%.
Other income and expense was approximately $1 million in income consisting of $4 million in
foreign exchange gains offset by interest expense of $2.9 million as compared to $4.7 million in
FX gain and $1.5 million in interest expense last quarter. Our interest expense increased
sequentially as we utilized our short-term credit lines for financing higher inventory and accounts
receivables. We also experienced higher short-term interest rates on our borrowings driven by
recent Fed actions.
This quarter the tax provision was $25.8 million on a GAAP basis and $29.9 million on a non-GAAP
basis. Our GAAP tax rate for Q4 was 15.5% and our non-GAAP tax rate was 17.1%. Our GAAP and
non-GAAP tax expenses increased higher level of pre-tax profits; but the tax rates were lower
sequentially. Lastly, our share of income from our JV was $0.3 million this quarter as compared to
$0.2 million last quarter.
We delivered strong Q4 non-GAAP diluted EPS of $2.62 which exceeded the high end of the
original guidance range of $1.51 to $1.69, and our recently updated range of $2.30 to $2.40. The
increases to EPS were due to a combination of higher revenues, higher gross margins from
manufacturing efficiency, price discipline, product and customer mix, and operating leverage. For
the full fiscal 2022, we reported non-GAAP diluted EPS of $5.65, which was up 128% year-over-
year versus fiscal 2021 non-GAAP diluted EPS of $2.48 and higher than our initial guidance of
$4.53 to $4.71.
Cash flow used in operations for Q4 was $25 million compared to cash flow used in operations of
$228 million for Q3 due to our improved profitability along with better management of our
inventory and working capital. Despite the 21% quarter-over-quarter increase in revenues,
trimmed our inventory by 3% quarter-over-quarter. Accounts receivable increased sequentially
due to higher revenues, while accounts payable decreased sequentially due to the timing of
payments to our vendors. Our CapEx was $11 million for Q4 resulting in negative free cash flow of
$36 million versus negative free cash flow of $239 million last quarter. Our closing balance sheet
cash position was $267 million, while bank debt was $597 million as we utilized our bank lines of
credit to support higher revenues and accounts receivables as we ramped production of new
design wins globally.
As we look ahead to fiscal 2023, we expect that our continued growth in revenue and profitability
together with improved working capital management will lead to better operating and free cash
flow. We are optimistic that some of the supply chain and logistics costs will begin to stabilize. We
remain confident in our long-term outlook for robust revenue growth and profitability driven by
our leading-edge new platforms, design wins, market share gains, and engagement withsignificant new global customers. We are announcing also a new $200 million stock buyback
program today that will be in effect through January 31, 2024.
Turning to the balance sheet and working capital metrics compared to last quarter, our Q4 cash
conversion cycle was 100 days versus 98 days in Q3 and above our target range of 85 to 90
days. Days of inventory was 106, representing a decrease of 11 day versus the prior quarter of 117
as we managed our inventory more efficiently. Days sales outstanding was up by 3 days quarter-
on-quarter to 42 days while days payables outstanding came down significantly by 10 days to 48
days.
Now turning to the outlook for our business, we remain enthusiastic about design wins in plug-
and-play, rack-scale, Total IT Solutions ramping in multiple end markets. We are carefully watching
the global macroeconomic situation and continuing supply chain disruptions. For the first quarter
of fiscal 2023 ending September 30, 2022, we expect net sales in the range of $1.52 billion to
$1.62 billion.
GAAP diluted net income per share of $2.01 to $2.27 and non-GAAP diluted net income per share
of $2.07 to $2.32. We expect gross margins to be similar to Q4 levels. GAAP operating expenses
are expected to be approximately $126 million and include $8.6 million in stock-based
compensation and $0.5 million in other expenses that are not included in non-GAAP operating
expenses. GAAP and non-GAAP operating expenses are expected to increase due to continued
investments in R&D and higher personnel costs. We expect other income and expense, including
interest expense, to be a net expense of approximately $3.6 million and expect a nominal
contribution from our JV.
The company's projections for GAAP and non-GAAP diluted net income per common share
assume a GAAP tax rate of 19.4%, a non-GAAP tax rate of 20.3%, and a fully diluted share count
of 54.8 million for GAAP and 56.2 million shares for non-GAAP. We expect CapEx for the fiscal first
quarter of 2023 to be in the range of $6 million to $8 million.
For the fiscal year 2023 ending June 30, 2023, we are giving guidance for revenues in the range
$6.2 billion to $7 billion, GAAP diluted net income per share of at least $7.27, and non-GAAP
diluted net income per share of at least $7.50. The company's projections for GAAP annual net
income assumes a tax rate of 20.3% and a rate of 21.1% for non-GAAP net income. For fiscal year
'23, we are assuming a fully diluted share count of 55.6 million shares for GAAP and 57.0 million
shares for non-GAAP. The outlook for fiscal year 2023 fully diluted GAAP earnings per share
includes approximately $35.4 million in expected stock-based compensation and other expenses,
net of tax effects that are excluded from non-GAAP diluted net income per common share.
Nicole, I'll turn it back to you.
`Nicole Noutsios, Investor Relations `
Operator, you can open the line up for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from `Nehal Choski, Northland Securities with Northland Capital
Markets. Your line is open.Q - `Nehal Choski, Northland Securities
Congratulations on amazing results, amazing guidance, clearly showing sustainable share gain
story here. When I talk about the gross margin, I think this is the first time I've heard Super Micro
talk about better prices form as a driver of gross margin expansion, which is great, but can you
delve into why do you believe you're exiting prices for now versus in the past?
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Okay. So I missed just a little bit of what you said, Nehal. You said -- what was the question?
Q - `Nehal Choski, Northland Securities
Yes. I believe this is the first time I've heard you guys talk about price discipline being a driver of
gross margin expansion.
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Okay. Got you. Yes, so --
Q - `Nehal Choski, Northland Securities
And so I'd like to understand why is that happening now?
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Okay. Got you. So we have -- it took us some time to adjust to the rising freight costs and another
component costs. And so we managed to adjust those properly, and then we also got some
tailwind from -- finally from freight costs coming down 20% in Q4. So those two things combined
allowed us to have a higher gross margin.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Especially, our scale, our PE scale continue to grow. We maintain a very good product line, and
also when PE scale grow is we will have a higher gross margin and net margin.
Q - `Nehal Choski, Northland Securities
Got it. Great. And then can you give a little bit more detail on the driver of the strength in the
quarter which was leading as vertical solutions in OEM appliance in large data center segments?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Recently, we have indeed handful of really good product wins including most of them indeed
high-end AI platform. So our AI platform continue to gain max share especially rack-scale.
Importantly, we have a completed rack installed with customers, so it's made customer's job
much easier. And once they received rack just having two cable power cable, data cable, and
then, ready to run. So that really attracts some customers.
Q - `Nehal Choski, Northland Securities
What about within the OEMs side? What was the driver there on OEM side?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `Good thing is either, it's pretty much our standard products. Our standard products for customer,
we want some really top 10 highest value company around the world.
Q - `Nehal Choski, Northland Securities
Okay. Great. And then finally, what are your expectations for cash conversion cycle as the semi-
cycle appears to be entering a down-cycle now?
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, we expect our cash conversion cycle to come down, Nehal, for a couple of reasons. Number
one, our profitability has been increasing, and secondly, we've been able to manage our
inventories better. So we -- and the reason for that is in Q3, we were building inventory as we
were getting ready to start the launch of some design wins. And so those design wins really got
traction and that allowed us to kind of even out our inventory. So we expect our cash flows and
cash conversion cycle to improve.
Q - `Nehal Choski, Northland Securities
Great. Congratulations.
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital with Loop Capital. Your line is open.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital `
Hi. Good afternoon, guys. Yes. Thanks for taking the question and congrats on strong results and
very solid execution. Thanks -- congrats on that. So I guess a few if I could. Kind of piggybacking
off of Nehal's question, like in a bigger picture context, are there any other kind of key aspects of
what you're guys seeing going on just leading to the ongoing acceleration in revenue generation?
And I guess, Charles, is it all share gains or there other things that you guys are seeing that's
been leaving the last couple quarters to the accelerated revenue generation run rate?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thank you. Indeed, we started with our folks on rack-scale total solution, rack-scale plug-and-
play achieved about three years ago, so it gets to the point where to make the inverse ratio and
make other hardware, software, firmware people where change.
So now we start again, start with more and more deals, especially the top 10 or top 30 highest
value country around the world. So if we are very comfortable, we work on the end again to win
more deals in AI, high-end platform and total solution including storage, including switch. It's kind
of like a complete account or you can say a rack-scale, plug-and-play solution.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital `
I got it, I got it. So it sounds like it sounds like there's a big component in this year again that's
really continuing to resonate in the marketplace, both in the Total solutions and what you're able
to actually provide some customer with that Total solutions. So it sounds like it's just -- it's easier(Multiple-Speakers)
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Sorry, Charles, go ahead, sorry. No, go ahead, Ananda.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital `
Yes. I would just say, are you seeing parts of the marquee aspects of your end market toactually
accelerate? Well, I guess I'd love to know, like, what's your opinion on kind of the tenure of
demand in your key areas kind of the last 90 days versus the prior 90 days. It seems like you've
actually seen some acceleration as distinct from just share gains, but how would you guys
characterize that, particularly given the macro backdrop?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. As you may know, right, I mean the AI, deep learning, begin compare to grow, including
Metaverse, lot of customers, lot of companies continued to invest heavily in those area and it's
kind of we have -- I would have to say, exactly we need that pace for AI from around the world.
Doesn't matter really high end or kind of high volume platform or rack-scale, cloud.
So our investment in last three years start to gain customers' attention and we think there are
times -- big times especially. Most of our time in the industry people take the maybe 2 miles to 3
miles to finish shipping rack-scale customer. And it would take as much shorter, because we
optimize the inventory, and total solution and ship to customer with a much shorter lead times,
and customer really appreciate that as well.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital `
Got you. I'm sorry. No, I don't want cut you off. That's great context, Charles. I'll cede the floor for
now. Thanks. Appreciate it.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from Jon Tanwanteng with CJS Securities. Your line is open.
Q - `Jonathan Tanwanteng, CJS Securities `
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. Can you hear me?
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, Jon.
Q - `Jonathan Tanwanteng, CJS Securities `
Okay. Great. The gross margin is above 17% the high end of your range. Is that sustainable over
this year? And do you think that you should be changing your long-term target range if it is?
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `The answer is, yes, it is sustainable. And we will be reviewing our new target levels. But it's a -- it's
really, as Charles mentioned, we've had a lot of customers come to us and we've designed very
special solutions for them. And these solutions have value and they're high value to the industry
and to into our customers. And so we are -- when I say price this one, we've realized higher value
for some of our solutions and we had the good -- we've had the good fortune of being able to
secure enough supply to start the ramp-up of those solutions.
Q - `Jonathan Tanwanteng, CJS Securities `
That's great news. Thanks. And then, do you see any indications of your customers being
impacted by recessionary pressure at all? And maybe to go along with that, what assumptions, if
any, are in your guidance regarding macroeconomic or geopolitical risk?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
It depends. Some customers, yes, we saw them slow down a little bit, but lots of other customer
indeed continue to increase their demand, especially for high end AI platform, those future
products. And by the way, I mean they are launching new technology, coming soon quarter-over-
quarter or month-over-month. But at this moment, we believe we're a macro economy, net slow
down a little bit, but our demand should continue growing.
Q - `Jonathan Tanwanteng, CJS Securities `
Okay. Great. And the guidance that you gave for the next quarter, that's sequential decline at the
midpoint, is that more indication of just seasonality or supply, or is it maybe more of this macro
sort of that maybe some of your customers have seen.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Two reasons: one is supply chain. We're still facing some supply chain constraints. Some parts
have been more available than before, but still lot of parts still in shortage. That's one thing.
Second thing, September quarter used to be our slower season. So both the reasons, and that's
why we try to be more conservative.
Q - `Jonathan Tanwanteng, CJS Securities `
Okay. Understood. And last one, if I may, just when do you need to think about investing in new
capacity? I know you guys have up to $10 billion to $12 billion in your current facilities, but at your
current growth rate, you probably have to start thinking about it pretty soon. So I was just
wondering what your plans are if you need to get there, and where you might start investing if
you need to do so.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
In addition to that, because we now focused on that, really global market yet. We are very strong
in some countries, some territories, but in other countries, we are still pretty new. So our solutions
are able to grow with much higher scale. We just need more warehouse, more production,
making power, and then we can achieve more product customer. As far as hardware, software,
firmware, total solutions have been waiting. We just have to replicate, as I said, market to more
countries and we are already are training for that.
Q - `Jonathan Tanwanteng, CJS Securities `
Okay. Great. Thanks, guys. And again, congrats on a fantastic quarter.A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks.
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital with Loop Capital. Your
line is open.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital `
Oh, God. Thank God. I appreciate. I'd just love to get a little more context on the mixed dynamic,
Charles, as you guys talked about in the prepared remarks. It sounds like meaningful aspects of
the mix is the total solution. Are there any other components of mix that we should be aware of
in contributing to that dynamic? Or is it primarily the total solutions that are regularly increasing it?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Very good question. Indeed, that is why in share, we started to prepare our rack-scale plug-and-
play about three years ago. So it took us a quite a lot of effort to train our people, to make all the
facility, all the other components ready, especially a switch communication -- networking device.
And finally, everything ready, we start to gain more customers, gain more design wins, and I
believe those design wins will continue. So at this moment, I feel pretty positive, pretty confident
in those areas.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital `
That's really awesome. And are there any particular verticals that those rack-scales tend to go
into or targeted at more or that they'll resonate with more or exist sort of across all your
verticals? Do you think the rack-scale has a real place?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
No, it's still -- people don't need Metaverse, Omniverse, and I think they need those automation,
scientific applications, so indeed a lot of area, even kind of like a forecasting company also having
some strong demand, right.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital `
That's super helpful context as always. Just -- I just really have two last quick ones here. Sounds
like the backlog probably grew again over the last 90 days given your comment around
constraints. Is that accurate?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Because still they are lot of shortage. And that's why don't keep enough inventory so that we
can support a continual growth demand. Basically, our inventory here is pretty healthy. We have
some high volume inventory, but they are under strong demand. So at this moment, I don't worry
about our inventory level.Q - `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital `
Right. And then last one for me, guys, is, Charles, just an update on Taiwan? How would you
characterize the utilization level there now?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
They grow faster, but we're always suffering supply chain shortage in nine months already, nine
months or 12 months already. So I hope that supply chain we all continue to getting better. And
once that happen, our (inaudible) Taiwan can be much improved. And at this moment, I believe
our evaluation rate in Taiwan only about 45%, or so. So they are not able -- (Multiple-Speakers)
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital `
Yes. And so, Dave, so the 40 -- say, 40%, 45% utilization, does that mean when you guys get to
sort of normalized utilization, we should still expect big, what was it like 150 to 200 basis points in
gross margin contribution on top of where you guys are right now?
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
From their shipments. Yes, that's right. We said 100 basis points 200 basis points from Taiwan.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital `
So 100 basis points to 200 basis points from Taiwan, not 100 basis points to 200 basis points --
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So --
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital `
So it's not 100 basis points to 200 basis points for the overall P&L, it's 100 basis points to 200
basis points from Taiwan.
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
That's Correct. That's correct. You said this -- yes.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital `
Yes. Got it. Now Taiwan is going to be -- it's going to be approaching half your volume at some
point. So would that sort of the long term 50 basis points to 100 basis points to the overall P&L?
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
That's a fair way of looking at it.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital `
Okay. Awesome. Thank you, guys. Appreciate it.
Operator
There are no further questions at this time. This does conclude today's conference call. Thank