Q4 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Thank you for standing by. My name is Anna, and I will be your conference operator today. At this
time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Super Micro Computer Fiscal Fourth Quarter 2023
Results Conference.
With us today `Charles Liang, Chief Executive Officer, Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer; `David Weigand, Chief Financial Officer,
CFO; and Mike Staiger, Vice President of Corporate Development. All lines have been placed on
mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question and
answer session. (Operator Instructions). Thank you.
`Michael Staiger, Vice President, you may begin your conference.
`Michael Staiger, Vice President `
Good afternoon, and thank you for attending Supermicro's call to discuss Financial Results for the
Fourth Quarter and Full Fiscal Year which ended June 30, 2023. With me today are `Charles Liang, Chief Executive Officer,
Founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and `David Weigand, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Financial Officer.
By now, you should have received a copy of the news release from the company that was
distributed at the close of regular trading and is available on the company's website. As a
reminder, during today's call, the company will refer to a presentation that is available to
participants in the Investor Relations section of the company's website under the Events
Presentations tab. We have also published management's scripted commentary on our website.
Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today will consist of
forward-looking statements, including without limitation those regarding revenue, gross margin,
operating expenses and other income and expenses, taxes, capital allocation and future business
outlook, including guidance for the first quarter of fiscal year 2024 and the full fiscal year 2024.
There are a number of risk factors that could cause Supermicro's future results to differ materially
from our expectations. You can learn more about these risks in the press release we issued
earlier this afternoon, our most recent 10-K filing for fiscal 2022 and other SEC filings.All these documents are available on the Investor Relations page of Supermicro's website. We
assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. Most of today's presentation
will refer to non-GAAP financial results and business outlook. For an explanation of our non-GAAP
financial measures, please refer to the accompanying presentation or to our press release
published earlier today. In addition, a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP results is contained in
today's press release and in the supplemental information attached to today's presentation. At
the end of today's prepared remarks, we will have a Q&A session for sell-side analysts to ask
questions.
I will now turn the call over to Charles.
`Charles Liang, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Michael, and good afternoon, everyone. Today, I am pleased to announce a new
record fiscal result of $7.12 billion annualr evenue, a 37% year-over-year growth rate. We have also
achieved our first landmark $2.18 billion quarter, which is 34% growth year-over-year and 70%
quarter-on-quarter.
We are continuing to exceed both top and bottom-line results and performing well beyond our
previously guided ranges. It's no secret that our strong growth has been driven by the demand
for our leading AI platforms in plug-and-play rack-scale, especially for the large language model
optimized NVIDIA HGX-based Delta Next solution.
Our engineering capability enabled us to deliver optimized, first-to-market AI products and
solutions to our customers, distinguishing us from the competition and empowering us to take
market share.
I am also proud of our logistics and production teams' execution to maintain our time to market
advantage and deliver our total solution to our key partners much sooner than competition. Our
investment of 4,000 racks-per-month state-of-the-art validation and production facility in Silicon
Valley is one of the major factors in delivering high-performance AI racks quickly with both air-
cooled and liquid-cooled options.
Let's go over some key financial highlights. First, we enter fiscal year '24 with record-high
backorders, many more new design wins and new customers. Again, our first -- our fiscal year
2023 net revenue totaled $7.12 billion, up 37% year-on-year, above our mid-point guidance range
of $6.7 billion. Fiscal year 2023 non-GAAP earnings per share grew 109% year-over-year to $11.81,
compared to $5.65 a year ago, exceeding the higher end of our revised guidance range of
$10.50 to $11.00.
Fiscal Q4 net revenue totaled $2.18 billion, up 34% year-on-year and up 70% quarter-on-quarter
above our guidance range of $1.7 billion to $1.9 billion. Fiscal Q4 non-GAAP earnings of $3.51 per
share grew 34% year-over-year compared to $2.62 a year ago, and it was well above the high
end of our guidance range of $2.21 to $2.71, demonstrating strong operating leverage and
continued customer preference towards our rackscale Total IT Solutions.
For 30 years, we have been diligently building our company strength and foundation. As the only
US-based scale AI platform designer and manufacturer, we have been shipping our winning
products in volume to our partners for more than a quarter. Couple of months ago, I was honored
to have my close friend, NVIDIA's CEO Jensen Huang, join me on stage at Computex to highlight
our optimized new generation GPU solutions for this AI era.We are deploying not just systems, but complete rack-scale total solutions to large generative AI
innovators. Supporting HGX H100 Delta-Next, H100 PCIe GPUs, and the just-announced L40S
GPUs. Our Delta-Next, Redstone-Next, and 8-GPU OVX systems have become the benchmarks
of excellence for the industry. We are also getting good traction on Intel's Gaudi 2 and PVC, as
well as AMD's MI-250 accelerator solutions.
The demand for artificial intelligence infrastructure is perfectly addressed by our building block
server architecture. And due to our building block solution, we have the best and broadest
application-optimized GPU solutions on the market. We plan to extend this leadership with the
upcoming MGX platforms that we announced at Computex, bringing modular flexibility on
acceleration with X86,
Grace (C2), and Grace-Hopper (CG1) Superchip.
The MGX platform is a shared vision of AI computing between NVIDIA and Supermicro, designed
to be open, flexible and future proof for multiple generations of GPUs, CPUs, and DPUs. We
already have many customers engaged with these new MGX platforms as we speak, and soon
they will be in volume production.
With nearly half of our revenues this quarter based on AI-related designs, I expect this AI growth
momentum to continue expanding our TAM across all customer types from major AI innovators,
super large CSPs, Tier 1 data centers, Tier 2 cloud, and to the general enterprise market. As the
performance of GPU, CPU, DPU and memory technologies increase, enhanced storage
performance is also necessary to feed massive data sets to the applications without becoming a
bottleneck that slows the entire system down.
Supermicro's new PCIe Gen 5 based E1.S and E3.S Petascale All-Flash storage servers offer
industry-leading storage performance and
Capacity. Together, with our U.2 NVMe, top-loaded scale-out and traditional storage platforms,
we are fulfilling customers' AI, compute, and storage needs with a one-stop total solution
Shopping experience, with the best optimization in performance, time-to-online, and cost.
With accelerated computing and storage, the power consumption and thermal challenges of
these new technologies have risen dramatically. 40 kilo watt or even 100 kilo watt rack solution
demand is rapidly expanding and required for compute-intensive data center, CSP, and other
verticals. Having high power efficiency, free-air and liquid cooling expertise has become one of
our key differentiators of success.
We have made major investments across a variety of technologies to drive adoption of direct
liquid cooling in datacenters to address the thermal challenges. In addition to increasing
computing density and reducing TCO, liquid cooling reduces the environmental impact of
datacenters dramatically, aligning with our green computing mission. Similarly, our liquid
immersion solution is making good progress, and we will be happy to provide that option to
interested partners soon.
The reality is that data center infrastructure is getting more complex, especially with the
unprecedented demand for AI. The design complexity and integration skills, along with the
requirement to deploy in a timely fashion are heavy burdens to many end customers. Supermicro
Total IT Solutions approach saves them from the complications of design, validation, sourcing,
and integration. It also streamlines network switching, firmware and software management indatacenter scale. Customers' peace of mind is topped off by the value of our 24/7 Global Service
tiers.
Given the current infrastructure demand, we have been continuing to evaluate our footprint
beyond our recently announced Malaysia expansion. We have recently added another new
building close to our Silicon Valley headquarter and are aiming to further increase our current
4000 rack per month capacity in this fiscal year.
To further support demand from key domestic partners, we are also planning to build another
manufacturing campus in North America. At this moment, our US HQ and Taiwan facility can
support at least $15 billion in revenue while the new Malaysia facility will further increase our total
revenue capability by serving largest scale (inaudible) customer on a reduced cost structure in the
coming few quarter.
In closing, Supermicro is in a great position to continue our growth momentum with our leading AI
portfolio, our infrastructure readiness, and our ability to deliver products in a timely manner. Due
to the current key components supply shortages, we forecast revenue in the range of $1.9 billion
to $2.2 billion for the September quarter. However, given the record high backlog, we see fiscal
year 2024 revenue between $9.5 billion to $10.5 billion with room to deliver more depending on
availability of supply.
Our role as the leader of rack-scale Total AI and IT Solutions has only just begun. We are ready to
deliver optimized AI infrastructures to existing and emerging markets, along with our value-added
software and services. To say it plainly, our foundation and capacity are fully ready, and our
demand is growing strongly. With LLM, Large Language Model, and other AI applications
booming, I now expect the $20 billion annual revenue target to be just a couple of years away.
Before passing the call to `David Weigand, Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Financial Officer, I want to say thank you to
our partners, customers, Supermicro employees and our shareholders for your continued
support. Thank you. David?
`David Weigand, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Charles. Fiscal fourth quarter revenues were $2.18 billion, up 34% year-over-year and
up 70% quarter-over-quarter. Q4 revenues exceeded initial guidance range of $1.7 billion to $1.9
billion and were at the high end of the recently updated range of $2.15 billion to $2.18 billion. For
Fiscal 2023, we reported revenues of $7.12 billion, representing 37% growth over fiscal year '22
revenues of $5.2 billion.
Next generation CPU and AI platforms continue to drive record levels of design wins and orders.
Exiting fiscal year 2023 with a record backlog, we are well positioned for fiscal year '24 with an
outlook for continued revenue growth and profitability. We expect diversified growth driven by
top-tier datacenters, emerging CSPs, enterprise AI build-outs, CPU upgrades, and
edge/IOT/telco markets. We are also targeting new opportunities in adjacent markets such as
Storage, Switches, Software and Services. We note that our shipments against a record backlog
may continue to be constrained by supply chain bottlenecks for key new components for our
advanced AI server platforms.
Q4 results were driven by our high-growth AI/GPU and rack-scale solutions which represented
52% of our total revenues. We had two 10% customers for Q4 and did not have any 10%
customers for FY23. During Q4, we recorded $976 million in the Enterprise and Channel vertical,
representing 45% of revenues versus 50% last quarter, this was up 19% year-over-year and up
51% quarter-over-quarter as we ramped several key enterprise programs.The OEM appliance and large datacenter vertical achieved $1.17 billion in revenues, representing
53% of Q4 revenues versus 47% last quarter, up 59% year-over-year and up 94% quarter-over-
quarter as we gained momentum with existing and new datacenter, CSP, and OEM cloud
appliance customers. Our emerging 5G, Telco, Edge and IoT segment achieved $43 million in
revenues, representing 2% of Q4 revenues versus 3% last quarter.
For the fiscal year 2023, Organic Enterprise and Channel and AI ML revenues grew 10% to
represent 48% of total revenues. The OEM appliance and large datacenter segment grew 102%
and represented 49% of total revenues. The emerging 5G, Telco, Edge, IOT segment decreased
36% and represented 3% of total revenues. The mix of complete systems and rack-scale Total IT
Solutions has increased over the last two years. Server and Storage Systems comprised 93% of
Q4 revenue and Subsystems and Accessories represented 7%.
ASPs continued to increase on a quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year basis driven by the
value and complexity of our rack-scale Total IT Solutions. By geography, US represented 76% of
Q4 revenues, Asia 11%, Europe 10%, and Rest of World 3%. On a year-over-year basis, US
revenues increased 55%. Asia decreased 17%, and Europe increased 1%, and Rest of World
increased 12%. On a quarter-over-quarter basis, US revenues increased 112%, Asia increased 10%,
Europe decreased 1%, and Rest of World increased 11%.
The Q4 non-GAAP gross margin was 17.1%, down quarter-over-quarter from 17.7% in Q3 as we
focused on winning strategic new designs and market share. For fiscal year '23, the non-GAAP
gross margin of 18.1% versus 15.4% for fiscal year 2022 was driven by an increased rack-scale
production and customer mix and higher manufacturing efficiencies.
Turning to operating expenses, Q4 OpEx on a GAAP basis increased by 14% quarter-over-quarter
and 19% year-over-year to $145 million driven by headcount and related expenses. On a non-
GAAP basis, operating expenses increased 14% quarter-over-quarter and 17% year-over-year to
$133 million. Our non-GAAP operating margin increased significantly to 11% for Q4 versus 8.7% last
quarter due to operating leverage driven by higher revenues that outpaced increases in
operating expenses.
For fiscal year '23, we achieved a non-GAAP operating margin of 11.4% versus 7.2% in fiscal year
'23 due to higher gross margins and operating leverage from higher revenues and expense
controls. Other Income and Expense for Q4 was an expense of approximately $1.5 million
consisting of $3.5 million in interest expense offset primarily by a net foreign-exchange gain of
$2.0 million. Our interest expense increased sequentially as we utilized our short-term credit lines
for working capital requirements along with higher short-term interest rates on our borrowings.
The tax provision for Q4 was $31.3 million on a GAAP basis and $36.6 million on a non-GAAP
basis. The GAAP tax rate for Q4 was 13.9% and the non-GAAP tax rate was 15.4%. The GAAP tax
rate was 14.7% for fiscal year '23 versus 15.7% in fiscal year '22 and the non-GAAP tax rate was
15.9% versus 17.7% in fiscal year '22.
We delivered strong Q4 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $3.51 which exceeded the high
end of the original guidance range of $2.21 to $2.71 and the recently updated range of $3.35 to
$3.45. The increase in Q4 EPS was due to a combination of higher revenues and operating
leverage. For the full fiscal 2023, we reported non-GAAP diluted EPS of $11.81, up 109% year-over-
year versus fiscal 2022 non-GAAP diluted EPS of $5.65 and higher than the fiscal year '23
guidance of $10.50 to $11.00.
Cash flow used in operations for Q4 was $9 million compared to cash flow generated byhigher accounts payable from backend loaded shipments in the quarter due to supply constraints.
CapEx was $8 million for Q4 resulting in negative free cash flow of $17 million versus positive free
cash flow of $190 million last quarter.
For fiscal year '23, we had free cash flow from operations of $664 million, CapEx of $37 million
resulting in free cash flow of $627 million. We have $50 million remaining under the authorized
share buyback program which expires on January 31, 2024. The closing balance sheet cash
position was $440 million, whilst bank debt was $290 million resulting in a net cash position of
$150 million down from net cash position of $176 million last quarter as we utilized our bank lines
of credit to support higher revenues and accounts
Receivable as we ramped up production of new AI/GPU design wins.
Turning to the balance sheet and working capital metrics compared to last quarter, the Q4 cash
conversion cycle improved to 77 days versus 126 days in Q3. Days of Inventory was 75,
representing a decrease of 51 days versus the prior quarter of 126 days. Days Sales Outstanding
was down 13 days quarter-over-quarter to 38 days while Days Payables Outstanding came down
by 15 days to 36 days. Faster inventory turns contributed to the improvement in our cash
conversion cycle.
Now turning to the outlook. We remain enthusiastic about our diversified business model covering
a wide range of AI, core computing, storage, 5G telco/edge and IOT applications. Design wins
span across enterprise channel, large datacenter and emerging AI CSP, and Telco and OEM
customers. We are carefully observing the global macro-economic situation and continuing
supply-chain constraints especially for leading AI platforms.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2024 ending September 30, 2023, we expect net sales in the range
of $1.9 billion to $2.2 billion, GAAP diluted net income per share of $2.02 to $2.80 and non-GAAP
diluted net income per share of $2.75 to $3.50. We expect gross margins to be similar to Q4
levels. GAAP operating expenses are expected to be approximately $185 million and include $48
million in stock-based compensation and other expenses that are not included in non-GAAP
operating expenses. GAAP and non-GAAP operating expenses are expected to increase due to
continued investments in R&D and higher personnel costs adding to our great engineering
teams.
The outlook for Q1 of fiscal year 2024 fully diluted GAAP EPS includes approximately $44 million in
expected stock-based compensation and other expenses, net of tax effects of $9 million, which
are excluded from non-GAAP diluted net income per common share. We expect other income
and expense, including interest expense, to be a net expense of approximately $1.5 million.
The company's projections for GAAP and non-GAAP diluted net income per common share
assume a GAAP tax rate of 14.7%, a non-GAAP tax rate of 15.4%, and a fully diluted share count of
56 million for GAAP and 57 million shares for non-GAAP. We expect CapEx for the fiscal first
quarter of 2024 to be in the range of $10 million to $12 million. For the fiscal year 2024, which
ends June 30, 2024, we are giving guidance -- sorry, the first fiscal year 2024, which ends June
30, 2024, we are giving guidance for revenues in the range $9.5 billion to $10.5 billion.
Okay, Michael, we're now ready for Q&A.
`Michael Staiger, Vice President `
Operator?Operator
(Operator Instructions) Now, we have the first question, comes from the line of Neil Koski [ph]
from Northland Capital Markets. Your line is open.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you. And congratulations on an amazing quarter and an amazing fiscal year 2024 revenue
guidance of $9.5 billion definitely want to dig into that. First off, Charles, I think you said you had
50% of revenue exposure AI for the June quarter. That's an incredible mix very strong statement
that Supermicro indeed the leader in AI systems. What do you think is a sustainable differentiation
that you guys are well being with rack-scale AI systems that's driving that incredibly fast increase
in revenue exposure AI systems?
A - `Charles Liang, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thank you for your question. AI had been our major focus it seems [ph] a few years ago
and we're working with AI chip company kind of NVIDIA very closely. And we call the lots of
platform including our NGX -- now coming NGX as you know who support our C2 and CG1. So our
AI solution with rack-scale, cloud scale, cost of scale solution, that make our customers deploy
even much easier. And full (inaudible), AI solution will energy close to the savings will time to
online. So I believe, our AI about $9 billion. We are currently on the growth in the near maybe a
continue to be a more than 50% of our revenue.
Operator
Next question comes from the line of `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group from Susquehanna International Group.
Your line is open.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
Yes, sir. Thanks for taking my question. It ensures, I think it would be very helpful if you could
(Technical Difficulty) $10 billion of revenue and perhaps any clear color on, as we increase
doubling capture your increased content would give us an insight unless you have other ways of
explaining to get to $10 billion.
A - Unidentified Speaker
We continue to gain lots of new customer. All partner will continue to like our solution and we can
be under gaining new customers. We sell rack-scale, cloud scale, total solution, including air cool
and liquid cool, right. So, we see a very strong demand and growing very fast echoed, so $10
billion should be kind of total target for sure.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
The question, your competitors also argue for an innovative cooling and they also argue for share
gain. Is there something with your cooling technology that is better -- offers better cost
performance compared to some of the emerging cooling that you're competitors are marketing
or talk about.
A - `Charles Liang, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, indeed, our engineering team is strong and dedicated. Everyone can design in system, lot
whole system seem pretty better than others, not just better in quality performance also, earliercome to-market, and together with the service, sort of (inaudible) management. So it's a total
submission in-service.
So, we feel pretty confident that we will continue to gain market share.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
Okay. Maybe the cost of AI becoming more than 50% of your revenue. How is your pipeline as
you look into second half of calendar year? Do you already have a pipeline that gives you
confidence, you're going to hit that 50% plus AI as the mix of revenue or you still have to go and
qualify and win the business to hit that target?
A - `Charles Liang, Chief Executive Officer `
Indeed, in our pipeline have been very strong. And that is moment, the visibility is very clear. So,
we are very confident. It's basically another game in customer too.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Jon from Tanwanteng. Your line is open.
Q - `Jon Tanwanteng, Analyst, CJS Securities `
Hi, good afternoon, thank you for taking my questions and congrats on a really strong quarter
outlook again. My first one is, I just wanted to dig into your confidence for the outlook. Can you
just -- in various parts, maybe talk about your confidence in supply-chain, being able to supply that
maybe 40% growth guidance at the midpoint. Maybe talk about your ability to get allocations
from key suppliers.
And then within your order book and backlog, what is your assurance or how can you identify if
there's double or triple ordering and how do you protect yourself against that if they do exist?
A - `Charles Liang, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, it's a complicated question. We have a very good product, many product line for data mix,
for (inaudible) and other solutions. So, including the (inaudible). So, the solution is really strong
and supply chain, we won't go with our vendor really closely every day. And so, hopefully that
situation will be consistently improve, but it's not 100% controlled by our sales. So overall, we
have a good partnership. We spend with customer. So we looked at it very, very closely. And
situation, we have been continuing improving I believe.
Q - `Jon Tanwanteng, Analyst, CJS Securities `
And on the order side?
Operator
Your next question... Are we ready for the next question?
A - `Charles Liang, Chief Executive Officer `
No. Jon, did you have follow...
Q - `Jon Tanwanteng, Analyst, CJS Securities `In order side, protection gets double and triple.
A - `Charles Liang, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. And see the order side, I mean, the back order have been continue growing strongly. Every
month I see the order growth.
A - `David Weigand, Chief Financial Officer `
Also, Jon, we have a lot of -- NCRO orders as well, that protects against double and triple
booking.
Operator
Okay. Your next question comes from the line of `Ananda Baruah, Analyst, Loop Capital from Loop Capital. Your line is
open.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Analyst, Loop Capital `
Yeah, good afternoon guys and thanks for taking the question. Yeah, congrats on the strong
results. In the ongoing momentum, I have a couple if I could. Charles, you've talked in the
prepared remarks about the unprecedented demand you're seeing. And you guys have talked
about, actually, adding new customers, including top-tier data center customers, I think you
mentioned. And some of these Gen AI server forecasts for 2024 calendar are really, really strong.
You also talking about gaining share, et cetera, et cetera.
And so, I guess the first question is, what's the opportunity we see to maybe even do achieve
stronger than the 25 -- fiscal '24 guidance. I guess, what would be the puts and takes there. And
if you were to be able to exceed the 2024 guidance, what would be some of the things you think
would need to occur? And then I have a quick follow-up. Thanks.
A - `Charles Liang, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thank you, very good question. Again, we continue to gain generative AI innovator, and we
have a very good partnership. We started shipping them some (inaudible) And for sure, they
need a 10 time -- 20-time more system and we just can actually bear this moment because of the
supply chain. And at the same time, we also continue to engage with largest CSP and large data
center. So we continue to gain more customers from, I would say IoT vertical.
So, yes, had to work hard with supply chain. So, this invention [ph] allows for prior all customer in
our sale and not have been our major focus now. Although, we continue to improve our solo AI,
total data centers that we change, included in TARC[ph], direct, deep cooling and deeply
immersive solution. So, I mean, we are on right track. Yes, expecting a supply chain can improve,
so that we can grow our revenue.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Analyst, Loop Capital `
That's really helpful. And so, Charles, just to make sure that I understood that accurately. Just to
say, yes, if the supply chain -- So if you can get more from the supply chain. Well, actually say this
way, you have order visibility such that, if you can procure more, you would have the ability to
share gains, see exceed the fiscal '24 range that you provided is really a supply-chain issue. I
guess what I'm asking, did I hear that accurately?
A - `Charles Liang, Chief Executive Officer `Yeah, absolutely. I mean, we continue to prove to our customers and our vendor. They have -- we
have a business solution. So, look we say, that's the way we went for everyone.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Analyst, Loop Capital `
I got it. And then let me just ask a quick follow-up to that one. Is there anyway you guys could
provide any context for us around? I guess how constrained you're, like what might the demand
outlook sort of look like if you were not constrained? So it's not like guidance, right, obviously
bigger guidance suggests context for us to really get a sense of what the structural positioning of
the company is, if there were --
A - `Charles Liang, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I think we have the benefit of all that and we have a very good customer and we pushed
our vendor. And we know our vendor (inaudible) that will support us at the same time as well. So
we just hadn't (inaudible).
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Analyst, Loop Capital `
All right, Charles. I have one more quick one. I'll move away from demand, I appreciate it. It
sounds like the gross margin guidance for the September quarter is a pretty solid most attractive
guide. For fiscal '24, should we assume that 17% gross margin range or what's the right way to
think about that? And that's it for me. Thanks.
A - `David Weigand, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. This is David. So we're targeting to hold our margins. And that's all the guidance that we'll
give right now.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Wells Fargo from Wells Fargo. Your line is open.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Yeah, thanks for taking the questions. And also congrats on the results. So I -- first of all I just
wanted to clarify, I want to make sure I heard the number right. Is it 50% or 52% of the revenue
that was from your AI rack-scale solutions this last quarter?
A - `David Weigand, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, Aaron, Charles in his script said approximately 50% and I clarified 52%.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Okay. And so I guess the question underneath that is that -- one of the questions I get asked a lot
about is the spend around AI being so strong and it sounds like, obviously you're carrying a pretty
good backlog looking out over the next several quarters, given the supply dynamics. But if I take
that number and I say that non-AI business, how has that trended or basically are you reallocating
capacity away from more of the non are traditional compute side to satisfy demand on the AI
side? Or have you seen spending slowdown outside of these AI investments that you're clearly
benefiting from?
A - `Charles Liang, Chief Executive Officer `Yeah. AI servers (inaudible) IOT takeaway. We keep a level and it'll be flat, understand the
industry and it will be declining. We are rolling out the Canadian above fed and we try to grow as
well and that's why we are growing in a minute direction kind of manufacturing in Taiwan, Malaysia
and we may have another medical campus. So that's all to increase our capacity. So that we can
grow traditional data center (inaudible) instead of walking you folks on a growing AI.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Okay. So just to be clear. I mean, so you're limiting -- you're limited on your supply on the
traditional compute side because of the AI demand that you're seeing, is that fair?
A - `Charles Liang, Chief Executive Officer `
Not exactly. Impacted by Executive [ph] indeed. As you know, the traditional server -- traditional
data center business and it'll be flat from the demand side. So we're quite into similar experience
as well, but not declining.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Yeah, okay. And then the final question from me is just thinking about the AI opportunity and I
think you alluded to this a little bit in your prepared comments. You mentioned positioning around
I think it was the Intel chip and then also I think another vendor coming to market the DMI 300
from AMD. How do you see that playing out for your opportunity? Does it help satisfy demand?
Are you seeing indicators that this AI opportunity is going to be much more diversified here as we
move into 2024 versus what you've seen on the NVIDIA side at this point. Just curious how you're
seeing kind of the competitive landscape or maybe opportunity set expand for you guys with
those newer -- other solutions coming to market?
A - `Charles Liang, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, NVIDIA solution and people already working for NVIDIA more supply. And others solution
from India, from AMD because outbidding bulk solution. We have a solution ready for all over
them. So that's the advantage we have. So yes, waiting for them, a solution to be available in
(inaudible)
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Yeah. Thank you very much, guys.
A - `Charles Liang, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Jon from [ph] Tanwanteng. Your line is open.
Q - `Jon Tanwanteng, Analyst, CJS Securities `
Hi, thanks for the follow-up. Dave, I was wondering if you could talk about your working capital
needs in this sort of environment. Can you generate positive cash flow going forward or are you
going to be using cash as you try to fulfill the supply demand?
A - `David Weigand, Chief Financial Officer `Yeah, Jon, we see the business generating good cash flows as it has historically. And we think
that the -- especially in this constrained supply market, where we could deliver more if we had
more supply, but really the constrained supply ends up moderating the working capital. And so
we grew our business last quarter quite a bit through our AR. So that utilized a lot of working
capital, but we have no concerns about working capital.
Q - `Jon Tanwanteng, Analyst, CJS Securities `
Okay, great. And then, could you guys give a little bit more detail on the capacity expansion and
when those various facilities come online? And what exactly the AI?
A - `David Weigand, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. We have Malaysia, which is expected to come online in around 12 to 15 months. And that's
going to -- that will eventually double our capacity and we also have additional capacity coming
online and are building '23 here in our Silicon Valley campus. And we've also added, as Charles
mentioned, another site in San Jose with intentions to add another site in the Americas.
Q - `Jon Tanwanteng, Analyst, CJS Securities `
Got it. And then last one from me, maybe a more detailed question. What percentage of your AI
sales right now are liquid cooling base? And do you expect that percentage to increase as we go
forward?
A - `Charles Liang, Chief Executive Officer `
This is a very new question. So we had a very good -- direct I think we could lead solution ready to
go now. And it all depends on the customer demand. And at the same time, the deep emotion
solution also getting ready. So we have all that we should and depends on customer demand.
And this remains for sure, air cool still a majority as you know.
Q - `Jon Tanwanteng, Analyst, CJS Securities `
Okay, great. Thanks, Charles.
A - `Charles Liang, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Neil Koski [ph] from Northland Capital Markets. Your
line is open.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Yeah, thank you for the follow-up question. So NVIDIA successfully guided their July quarter data
center revenue to execute in Q2. What does that mean for Supermicro in terms of GPU systems,
especially what I'm trying to drive is that is there a lag between when NVIDIA gets a recognized
revenue and when the rest of OEMs gets recognized revenue?
A - `Charles Liang, Chief Executive Officer `
We believe their capacity are growing and that's why we talk to them every day, asking for more.
So hopefully we can gather more support from them. And hopefully their capacity can growsmoothly, quickly. So that's all I can say now.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Okay. Do you have a guess on what is your AI-related market share during the June quarter? And
why they're -- that was not up Q-o-Q?
A - `David Weigand, Chief Financial Officer `
We don't have -- we're not going to offer a market share for the June quarter, you can make
some assumptions by looking at the results of others. But we have -- we sell different GPUs as
Charles mentioned. So it varies a -- it's not a direct correlation.
A - `Charles Liang, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, basically we have a strong order -- back order and we still have lots of capacity. We're also
waiting for more AI. That's our situation.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Yeah, understood. And how should we think about distributing the remaining $8 billion across the
final three quarters here?
A - `David Weigand, Chief Financial Officer `
We -- we're not going to announce quarter-by-quarter our guidance. But we're expecting this to
be a robust year. And as tempered by the Natural Supply constraints because of the popularity of
these new platforms.
A - `Charles Liang, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, basically NVIDIA, we are at a more capacity for sure. And we're really happy to wait over
there. And besides, other than data mix, our (inaudible) mix is a company that is ready and our
CET1 solution is pretty much ready as well. So we believe we can ship much more in that situation.
So in next four quarter, I believe we will continue to grow quarter after quarter.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you very much.
A - `Charles Liang, Chief Executive Officer `
And your supply commission, I believe we can surpass $10.5 billion which you are [ph] EGD.
Operator
Thank you everyone for joining. We have no time for questions at this time. And this will conclude
today's conference call. You may now disconnect.