Q4 2025 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Thank you for standing by. My name is Cameron, and I will be your conference operator today. At
this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Super Micro Computer, Inc SMCI U.S. Fourth
Quarter Fiscal Year '25 Business Update Call.
With us today are `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board, Founder, President, and Chief Executive Officer; `David Weigand, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer,
CFO; and `Michael Staiger, Senior Vice President of Corporate Development, Senior Vice President of Corporate Development.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers'
remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) Thank you.
`Michael Staiger, Senior Vice President of Corporate Development `
Good afternoon, and thank you for attending Supermicro's call to discuss financial results for the
fourth quarter and full year of fiscal 2025, which ended June 30, 2025.
With me today are `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board, Founder, Chairman, and Chief Executive Officer, and David
Weigand, Chief Financial Officer.
By now, you should have received a copy of the press release from the company that was
distributed at the close of regular trading and is available on the company's website. As a
reminder, during today's call, the company will refer to a presentation that is available to
participants in the Investor Relations section of the company's website under the Events and
Presentations tab. We have also published management's scripted commentary on our website.
Please note that some of the information you will hear during our discussion today will consist of
forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those regarding revenue, gross margin,operating expenses, other income and expenses, taxes, capital allocation, and future business
outlook, including guidance for the first quarter of fiscal 2026 and the full fiscal year 2026.
These statements and other comments are based on management's current expectations and
assumptions of all material risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or events to
materially differ from those anticipated, and you should not place undue reliance on forward-
looking statements. You can learn more about these risks and uncertainties in the press release
we issued earlier this afternoon, our most recent 10-K for fiscal 2024, and other SEC filings. All
these documents are available on the Investor Relations page of Supermicro's website. We
assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Most of today's presentation will refer to non-GAAP financial results and business outlook. For an
explanation of our non-GAAP financial measures, please refer to the accompanying presentation
or to our press release published earlier today. The non-GAAP measures are presented as we
believe that they provide investors with a means of evaluating and understanding how company's
management evaluates operating performance. These non-GAAP measures should not be
considered in isolation from, as substitutes for, or superior to financial measures prepared in
accordance with U.S. GAAP. In addition, a reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP is contained in
today's press release and in the supplemental information attached to today's presentation.
At the end of today's prepared remarks, we'll have a Q&A session for sell-side analysts. Our first
quarter of fiscal 2026 quiet period begins with the close of business, Friday, September 12, 2025.
And, with that, I will now turn it over to Charles.
`Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Thank you, Michael. I will be covering our performance for fiscal 2025 and providing insights into
our strategic direction for fiscal 2026.
Our fiscal 2025 results represent a 47% year-on-year revenue growth at $22 billion. This growth
reflects continuing on the strong demand for our AI and Green Computing solutions. Despite the
six-month cash flow impact from the delayed filing of our fiscal year '24 10-K and delayed
revenue recognition from a major new large partner, non-GAAP earnings per share were 41%
down year-over-year from 50% last year, primarily due to the tariff impact, although we have
taken measures to reduce the impact, and we will see their results soon.
Allow me to go a little deeper at the June revenue shortfall in what was otherwise a stronger
quarter. The shortfall stemmed from two key factors: a capital constraint that limited our ability to
rapidly scale production, and specification changes from a major new customer that delayed
revenue recognition because of new-add -- because of some new-add features. The capital
constraint was no longer an issue after we filed the fiscal year '24 10-K, and large customer
orders are now slated for recognition in September and December quarters, following close
collaboration to align with the customer's update feature requirements.
Despite these circumstances, we remain focused on our strategic priorities, optimizing our
solutions and capturing market share. Notably, the number of large-scale plug-and-play rack
customers grew from two in fiscal year '24 to four in fiscal year '25, signaling strong momentum
and continuing growth potential across our customer base. We are also on track to add a few
more in fiscal year '26.
We continue our leadership in AI platforms and infrastructure with a comprehensive portfolio
optimized for latest GPU technologies, including NVIDIA B300 and GB300 platforms, and AMD'sMI350 and MI355X GPUs. Our X14 and H14 GPU systems deliver breakthrough performance,
supporting large-scale AI training and inference workloads and enterprise computing demands
with exceptional efficiency.
Notably, we were able to deliver our B200 systems with an industry-leading time-to-market to
our customers. We are confident our B300 and GB300 solutions will deliver similar, if not even
better, time-to-market and time-to-online advantages for customers, helping them accelerate
their AI deployment faster than others.
To further simplify our customers' AI data center infrastructure deployment and time-to-online,
we officially introduced our Data Center Building Block Solutions, DCBBS, to the market last
quarter. With our DCBBS, customers can harness our proven system building block advantage to
adapt quickly to evolving market demands, especially in response to increasing complex AI
product cycles.
Our modular architecture enables faster customization, stimulates production, and reduces time-
to-delivery, and time-to-online, while also optimizing quality, efficiency, and ease of maintenance.
In most cases, customers who use our DCBBS can finish building a liquid cool AI data center in just
18 months instead of two to three years. When converting an existing data center or warehouse
to a high-density rack liquid cooling data center, customers can complete the transformation in
only three to six months instead of 12 or even 18 months.
We have just begun deploying rack-scale total solutions with our DCBBS to a few key customers.
Key components of DCBBS include the DLC solutions, the L2A Sidecar -- I mean, liquid-to-air
cooling, CDU, especially in those CDU, indirect CDU as well, and chilled-door power shelf, battery
backup, BBU, water or dry tower solutions, and more are coming.
Our advanced second-generation direct liquid cooling, the DLC-2 system, reduce power and
water consumption by up to 40% while operating at a near-library-quite level, around 50
decibels. This enables superior performance, which reduces total cost of ownership, TCO, and
total cost to the environment, TCE, for modern data centers. Several DCBBS components are
now shipping or entering production very soon, supporting a growing demand for high-
performance, energy-efficient data center infrastructure.
Equally important, DCBBS meets the growing demand for a comprehensive one-stop-shop
solution, including software-defined infrastructure, system management, AI workload
optimization, networking, deployment, and all different levels of services. It allows cloud service
providers to reduce both CapEx and OpEx, capital expense and operating expense. Indeed, it
delivers also greater value to both AI-focused and traditional IT data centers.
By seamlessly integrating DCBBS's capabilities, capability with our system and rack solution, we
are not only enhancing customers' value but also improving our profit margins. This shift toward
higher-margin and revenue stream is central to our long-term strategy.
We are also start to strategically focus on the enterprise, IoT, and the telco markets, an initiative
we believe will improve both gross and net margin over time. In last two quarters, we made a
significant investment to optimize our solutions for enterprise customers, introducing advanced
server and storage systems, tailored for hybrid cloud, AI application, and edge computing
workloads. This enterprise-focused strategy will continue for many years to come.
Supermicro has also launched an enhanced enterprise service program, delivering a
comprehensive 24/7 global support for high-density, high-performance-driven data centers
deployment based on optimized rack-scale architecture. Our IoT portfolio, including embeddedsystem and edge servers, is gaining momentum across industry, like manufacturing, healthcare,
telco, smart city, and AI edge applications.
Additionally, we have announced strategic partnership to accelerate innovation in AI and the edge
and telecom solutions. By expanding into this higher-margin segment, we are diversifying our
revenue streams and driving long-term sustainable profitability that will benefit our shareholders.
Our global footprint allows us to efficiently deploy optimized solutions worldwide, with minimal
tariff impact, especially after September quarter. With large and versatile manufacturing campus
across the U.S., Taiwan, Malaysia, and the Netherlands, we can deliver a comprehensive system,
rack, and data center-level building blocks and total solutions to our customers directly and
quickly. This robust global presence enables us to respond to dynamic regional demands,
support cost-sensitive customers, seeking greater value, mitigate tariff exposure, and maintain a
reliance(sic) resilient global supply chain that's both agile and responsive.
Looking ahead to Q1 fiscal year '26, I anticipate revenue between $6 billion and $7 billion, driven
by continuing momentum across our AI rack, plug-and-play, DCBBS software and service
business, which are delivering exceptional customer value and strengthen our profitability. I'm
especially excited about our DCBBS for our full fiscal year 2026. I expect at least $33 billion total
revenue, supported by our expanding large and enterprise customer base, upcoming product
innovation, and robust DCBBS total solution.
In closing, I want to thank you, our employees, for their dedication, our customers for their trust,
and our investors for their continuous support. We are excited about the opportunity ahead and
look forward to updating you on our progress in the next quarter.
David, please.
`David Weigand, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Charles. Q4 fiscal year '25 revenues were $5.8 billion, up 8% year-over-year, and up
25% quarter-over-quarter, compared to our guidance of $5.6 billion to $6.4 billion. Growth was led
by demand for next-generation air-cooled and liquid-cooled GPU AI platforms, which represented
over 70% of Q4 revenues across both enterprise and cloud service provider markets. For the full
fiscal year '25, we reported revenues of $22 billion, representing 47% growth over fiscal year '24
revenues of $15 billion.
During Q4, we recorded $2.1 billion in the enterprise channel segment, representing 36% of
revenues versus 42% in the last quarter, up 7% year-over-year, and up 6% quarter-over-quarter.
The OEM appliance and large data center segment revenues were $3.7 billion, representing 63%
of Q4 revenues versus 57% in the last quarter, up 2% year-over-year, and up 40% quarter-over-
quarter. The emerging 5G Telco/Edge IoT segment revenues were 1% of Q4 revenues.
For fiscal year '25, enterprise channel revenues grew 82 -- 38% to represent 39% of total
revenues. The OEM appliance and large data center segment grew 50% and represented 60%
of total revenues. The 5G Telco/Edge IoT segment represented 1% of total revenues.
For fiscal year '25, we had four 10% plus large data center customers versus one in fiscal year '24.
Server and storage systems comprised 98% of Q4 revenue, and subsystems and accessories
represented 2%.
By geography, the U.S. represented 38% of Q4 revenues; Asia, 42%; Europe, 15%; and the rest of
the world, 5%. On a year-over-year basis, U.S. revenues decreased 33%, Asia increased 91%,U.S. revenues decreased 21%, Asia increased 78%, Europe increased 196%, and the rest of the
world increased 53%. The Q4 non-GAAP gross margin was 9.6% versus 9.7% in Q3 due to
product customer mix. For fiscal year '25, the non-GAAP gross margin was 11.2% versus 13.9% for
fiscal year '24.
Our long-term goal is to gradually improve gross margins through providing complete Data
Center Building Block Solutions and focusing on the enterprise IoT and telco markets. We also
expect to benefit from economies of scale from higher revenues, cost-effective global facilities,
including the new Malaysia manufacturing plant, and customer diversification. The Q4 operating
expenses on a GAAP basis increased by 8% quarter-over-quarter and 23% year-over-year to $316
million driven by higher compensation expenses and headcount.
On a non-GAAP basis, operating expenses increased 11% quarter-over-quarter and 29% year-
over-year to $239 million. The Q4 non-GAAP operating margin was 5.3% versus 5% in Q3. Other
income and expense for Q4 was a net expense of $5.7 million, consisting of $28.4 million in
interest income offset by $22.3 million in interest expense and FX and other losses of $11.8 million.
The tax provision for Q4 was $19 million on a GAAP basis and $37 million on a non-GAAP basis.
The GAAP tax rate for Q4 was 9%, and the non-GAAP tax rate was 12%. The GAAP tax rate was
13% for fiscal year '25 versus 5% in fiscal year 24, and the non-GAAP tax rate was 15% in fiscal
year '25 versus 11% in fiscal year '24. The Q4 GAAP diluted EPS was $0.31 compared to guidance
of $0.30 to $0.40, and non-GAAP diluted EPS of $0.41 versus guidance of $0.40 to $0.50 due to
lower gross margins and higher operating expenses in the quarter.
For fiscal year '25, we reported GAAP diluted earnings per share of $1.68 versus $1.92 for fiscal
year '24, and non-GAAP diluted EPS of $2.06 versus $2.12 in fiscal year '24. The GAAP fully diluted
share current count increased quarter-over-quarter from 622 million to 625 million in Q4, and the
non-GAAP share count increased sequentially from 636 million to 638 million shares.
Q4 cash flow generated from operations was $864 million compared to $627 million in the
previous quarter. For fiscal year '25, cash generated from operations was $1.7 billion versus cash
consumed by operations of $2.5 billion in fiscal year '24. Q4 closing inventory was $4.7 billion
versus $3.9 billion in Q3. CapEx and investments for Q4 was $79 million, resulting in positive free
cash flow of $841 million for the quarter. CapEx and investments for fiscal year '25 were $183
million versus $194 million in fiscal year '24.
During the quarter, we completed a convertible bond offering, raising $2.3 billion in gross
proceeds before operating expenses and the costs associated with the simultaneous covered
cost[ph] spread and stock buyback. The Q4 closing balance sheet cash position was $5.2 billion,
while bank and convertible note debt was $4.8 billion, resulting in a net cash position of $412
million versus a net cash position of $44 million last quarter. Additionally, in July, we executed a
$1.8 billion facility, which allows for the non-recourse sale of certain qualified accounts receivables
to strengthen our working capital on a discretionary basis.
Turning to the balance sheet and working capital metrics compared to last quarter, the Q4 cash
conversion cycle was 98 days versus 124 days in Q3. Days of inventory decreased by six days to
75 days compared to the prior quarter of 81 days. Day sales outstanding were 40 days compared
to 56 days in Q3. Days payables outstanding increased by four days to 17 days versus 13 days in
Q3.
Now turning to the outlook for Q1, fiscal year '26, we expect net sales in the range of $6 billion to
$7 billion, GAAP diluted net income per share of $0.30 to $0.42, and non-GAAP diluted netlevels. GAAP operating expenses are expected to be approximately $329 million and to include
$82 million in stock-based compensation expenses that are not included in non-GAAP operating
expenses.
The outlook for Q1 of fiscal year 2026, fully diluted GAAP earnings per share includes
approximately $69 million in expected stock-based compensation expenses, net of tax effects of
$20 million, which are excluded from non-GAAP diluted net income per common share. We
expect other income and expenses, including interest expense, to be a net expense of
approximately $24 million.
The company's projections for Q1 fiscal year '26 GAAP and non-GAAP diluted net income per
common share assume a GAAP tax rate of 13%, a non-GAAP tax rate of 15.5%, and a fully diluted
share count of 631 million for GAAP and 644 million shares for non-GAAP.
We expect CapEx for Q1 to be in the range of $60 million to $80 million. And, for fiscal year '26,
we expect net sales of at least $33 billion.
Michael, we're ready for Q&A.
`Michael Staiger, Senior Vice President of Corporate Development `
Great. Cameron, let's turn it over to a question-and-answer session.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. We will now begin the Q&A session. (Operator Instructions) The first question is from
the line of `Simon M. Leopold, Raymond James with Raymond James. You may proceed.
Q - `Simon M. Leopold, Raymond James `
Thanks for taking the question. I wanted to get a better understanding of some of the
bottlenecks or gating factors for sales. And what I'm looking at is, we've got full year revenue
outlook of $33 billion, so that's better than $8 billion a quarter. And we're looking at September
being roughly $6 billion to $7 billion.
So I would have thought that availability of Blackwell's GB200s could have given you maybe some
more upside to September and a more linear outlook for the year, but this would suggest more
of a backend load. So if you could help us understand how you're thinking about the cadence
through that fiscal year, and what are the bottlenecks or what are the restraints in terms of the
September quarter and availability of the chips? Thank you.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Yes, basically our business will continue to grow. Last year, because of 10-K delay, we have some
constraints. So we grew 47%. This year, we should be able to grow better than that. And you
mentioned about bottleneck, is some chip availability, some resource availability from vendor, like
NVIDIA. That's still, we have to wait and see. Basically, we believe their availability will be much
better than last two quarters. And that's why we estimated minimum of $33 billion.
And, by the way, our new introduction, DCBBS, that help customer to build a data center quicker,
especially make their cloud ready for time-to-online much quicker. So that's another factor webelieve this year, I mean, 2026, we should be able to grow better than last year.
Q - `Simon M. Leopold, Raymond James `
And is any of this related to customers perhaps waiting for GB300s, or is that not a factor?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Yes, you are right. Some customer always waiting for coming-soon technology, like a B300,
GB300. So the good thing is we have a B300, GB300 pretty much ready to go. Just waiting for
our partner, NVIDIA, to support us.
Q - `Simon M. Leopold, Raymond James `
Great; thanks for taking the questions.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Ruplu Bhattacharya, BofA Securities with Bank of America. You may proceed.
Q - `Ruplu Bhattacharya, BofA Securities `
Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. I have two of them. The first one is a higher-level question.
Can you talk about management strategy for competing in the AI server market? Is your focus on
revenue growth and gaining market share, or is your focus on margin expansion? And if it's both,
then what gives you confidence that you can grow revenues and grow margins in this competitive
market? And I have a follow-up.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Yes, very good question. Yes, we can grow much quicker if we don't care about gross margin and
net margin. And that's why we introduced the DCBBS, Data Center Building Block Solutions.
That's a total solution to support a customer to build a data center quicker, better, and also save
money, more reliable.
And we provide all the infrastructure needed, including on-site deployment, networking, cabling,
all different kinds of service. So we believe we can grow revenue, market share, and profitability,
especially our data center end-to-end software solution. So DCBBS plus all our software needs,
customer needs, including service. So we're sure able to provide better value to customers, not
just price war.
Q - `Ruplu Bhattacharya, BofA Securities `
Okay, thanks for that, Charles.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
I mean, not for the price war.
Q - `Ruplu Bhattacharya, BofA Securities `
Can I, for my follow-up, can you talk about the opportunity with Sovereign's? You announced an
MoU with DataVolt during the quarter. Can you give us your thoughts on the expected rollout of
that opportunity? And, David, what margin uplift should we expect from Sovereign customersversus your existing customer base, such as Tier 2 CSPs? I mean, how should we think about the
revenue and margin opportunity here? Thank you.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Yeah, Sovereign AI brings us a very good chance. There are so many countries need to build their
AI infrastructure, and those countries, those people really appreciate our DCBBS, Data Center
Infrastructure Total Solution. So we help them to design their AI infrastructure and help them build
their AI infrastructure quicker and better. So we see a very good room, a very big room to grow in
that area.
David?
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, and, Ruplu, on the gross margin side, we are optimistic that we will be able to sell more
complete Data Center BBS solutions, with Sovereign's. And so, therefore, we don't have enough
experience to be forecasting specific gross margins, but we're very optimistic that, with the
additional offerings that we will have, that there's upside there.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Yes, there are so many countries, especially in Europe, in the Middle East, in Asia, so they all are
very aggressively trying to build their AI infrastructure for their country, for their company. And we
are working very closely with them.
Q - `Ruplu Bhattacharya, BofA Securities `
All right; thank you for all the detail.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital Markets with Loop Capital. You may proceed.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital Markets `
Yes, guys, thanks for taking the questions. Two, if I could, the first one is maybe a little bit more of
a clarification. You, in the first six months of the calendar year, you guys saw, as did the industry,
elongated, a little bit elongated customer purchase cycles, first from the HGX, from the HGX GB
decision-making situation in the March quarter, then the B200, B300 sort of decision-making
situation in the June quarter.
Now, Charles, it sounds like, to one of the first questions, I think it was to Simon's question, you
may have suggested, sounds like you were suggesting there may then currently be some B300
sort of elongated decision -- customer decision-making as well. So just to clarify, are you still
going through, are we still not yet to normalize customer decision-making cycles? Because if
that's the case, I think it's useful for us to understand that as distinct from what the organic
demand backdrop may be as we go through, as we go through the year here. And, anyway, I
have a follow-up after that. Thanks.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Yes, as you know, NVIDIA has so many products, so many beta products, new products, and we
are very happy to provide all the new technology, new products, and make them available for thevery closely and make sure once NVIDIA is able to ship in volume, we can service customers
quicker.
And, with our DCBBS, we exactly optimize for customers' data center, including a large data
center and middle-sized data center, or even small size data center. So we are very happy to
support a lot of middle-size and small-size AI infrastructure as well. That's part of Supermicro's
advantage. We provide a total solution and make the customers' job much easier to build their AI
factory, AI infrastructure quicker and better.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital Markets `
And just as a follow-up, can you guys -- any context you can give us, guys, around the comment
of large-scale data center customers expanding to six to eight in fiscal '26? What -- sort of what
flavor of customers might that be? When do you consider someone to be large-scale, and what
market domains might those additional large-scale data center customers fit into? Thanks.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Yes, most of the larger-scale AI CSPs continue to have a strong demand, and we are prepared to
support them as well. This good thing is with much strong cash flow now, so we are ready to
support more large-scale data center as well.
Q - `Ananda Baruah, Loop Capital Markets `
Okay. Thanks, guys. Appreciate it.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Samik Chatterjee, J.P. Morgan with J.P. Morgan. You may proceed.
Q - `Samik Chatterjee, J.P. Morgan `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. I have two, but maybe for the first one, you talked about the
Data Center Building Block Solutions, and that it still may be a bit early for you to forecast gross
margins on that front, but anything that you can help us in terms of what does a typical sales
cycle, or what are you expecting for a sales cycle on that front to look like? Have any of your
larger data center customers shown interest in Data Center Building Block Solutions?
I guess the question more is when should we start to see, or what should we expect in terms of
material revenues in relation to when that does come into the P&L? What would be the earliest, if
you were sort of going and talking to your customers about these solutions now, what is -- what
should be our expectation on this front?
And I have a follow-up. Thank you.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Yes, thank you. Yes, we officially announced our Data Center Building Block Solutions last quarter,
and now we have some products fully ready to ship. For example, the AI computing power rack,
PnP, that has been available for four years from Supermicro, and kind of like a CDU, right, indoor,
in-rack CDU, and kind of like a sidecar, L2A, right, from liquid-to-air transformation, kind of for
those customers who like to go for liquid cooling but do not have a liquid cooling data center
infrastructure ready, we support them sidecar. And the product is ready to ship now.Like a power shelf, right, kind of when GP200, GB300 go for rack scale, I mean use power shelf,
we have a product ready now. And BBU, we have a product about ready now as well. And kind of
like a water tower for liquid cooling or dry tower, we are shipping now. And kind of like on-site
deployment and networking, including like cabling, all different kind of service.
We have most of those components getting ready now. And we start to ship in September
quarter, right, and then we are doing probably in a much higher volume in December. And then,
for sure, we will continue to grow in next year, March quarter and June quarter.
So, this Data Center Building Block Solutions, eventually, will help customers to build their AI
factory, infrastructure much quicker and much more energy-efficient and also save money as well.
So, we are very excited for our DCBBS solution.
Q - `Samik Chatterjee, J.P. Morgan `
Got it. And for my follow-up, you mentioned the investments that you're making on the
enterprise opportunity or edge opportunity as well. I mean, assuming some of those are better
margin opportunities, including the Data Center Building Block Solutions related to your business
currently on the sort of where you're around this 9%, 10% gross margin right now, do you see an
opportunity still to get back to the long-term targets that you had on the gross margin of 14% to
17%?
Or like are these new opportunities necessarily big enough and at a margin high enough to get
you back to that 14% to 17% run rate? Or do you think the expectations of investors should be at
maybe a more modest level in terms of what the long-term gross margin rate of the company
would be in the future?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Yes, very big question and very good question also. I mean, yes, enterprise and IoT, as you know,
have a much higher margin, and DCBBS service, software, which you have a better margin. So we
are growing in both directions. One is growing revenue and supporting a large-scale data center;
at the same time, growing enterprise data center total solution and software service.
So, I mean, long-term, I believe 15%, 16% still our target. And take how long, it depends on
combination. So, I believe, yes, the direction still there. I mean, we have to get back to our
traditional 16%, even 17% profit margin. David, maybe you can add something.
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, I think that, as Charles mentioned, we have been providing these services already. We've
had customers with very large deployments that we've helped them in the build out of their data
center and with specific services. And so, it's something that we're really focused on when we --
and we know that it'll contribute to our profitability.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Yes, as a Silicon Valley-based company, for sure, we are able and we like to provide more value
to customer, not just hardware, not just high-volume product, but all different kind of service,
solution, optimization, and to make a customer's job much easier.
Q - `Samik Chatterjee, J.P. Morgan `
Okay, great. Thank you.Operator
The next question is from the line of `Michael Ng, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs. You may proceed.
Q - `Michael Ng, Goldman Sachs `
Hi; good afternoon. Thank you for the questions. I just have two. First, on the greater than 10%
customers for fiscal '25, I was wondering if you could just let us know what the revenue
exposures were for those customers. I can appreciate we'll eventually get it in the 10-K, but any
early color would be helpful.
And then, second, thank you for all the guidance on 2026. I was wondering if you could just talk
about how we should think about gross margins for the full year. Is the first quarter gross margins
that you spoke to a good indication about how we should think about the full year? Thank you
very much.
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Okay, Michael. So, the four customers, which we'll refer to as A, B, C, and D, not in that -- in a
particular order, but 11% -- we had three 11% and a 21%.
And, as to your second question, we're not going to forecast annual guides, but I want to revert
back to our earlier comments that we're doing everything that we can, especially, and we're very
optimistic about these Data Center Building Block Solutions. And we have -- we're very quick to
market. We think that those two combinations, DCBBS and our fast time-to-market is our best
chances for margin improvement.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Yes, especially with our DCBBS, we are able to have a customer increase a speed up their time-
to-online, like kind of traditionally, for example, two years, we have them improve to speed up to
18 months, 16 months, so lots of customers are very interested to those services.
Q - `Michael Ng, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you, Charles.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Thank you.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Nehal Chokshi, Northland Securities with Northland; you may proceed.
Q - `Nehal Chokshi, Northland Securities `
Yes, thank you, I have two questions. The first one is, what is going to be the driver to projected
Q-over-Q uptick to the September quarter revenue, and maybe that can also help us understand
why you're guiding to no operating leverage, I believe, effectively your guidance implies about a
flat operating margin from the June quarter to September quarter.
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `So, in terms of the customers, we have a lot of customers that are building out really good
deployments. And so that's what gives us our guide to the first quarter. So we've been shipping
MI355X and GB300, and so we expect that to ramp in Q1, and that's really what's giving us our
guide.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Yes, we are also gaining many more customers in Europe, Middle East, and Asia now. So,
basically, the near future should be pretty strong.
Q - `Nehal Chokshi, Northland Securities `
And why with the incremental $1 billion in revenue, we won't see any operating margin leverage?
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Well, whenever there is a -- in changing over to these new platform technologies, there's always
a little bit of a ramp for us. And so that creates a little bit of a production learning curve.
Q - `Nehal Chokshi, Northland Securities `
Okay, and then my second question is that the Data Center Building Block Solutions, is that being
pitched for as a discrete service, where the value of that discrete service is fractional to a gen-AI
factory, or is it bundled in to a gen-AI factory, where it's meant to drive a better margin profile for
that gen-AI factory?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
It is supported old even scale of data center that doesn't matter generative AI or agentic AI or
application, right, inference. So it's a solution that we are defined pre-test, pre-validate. So when
we ship the customer, a customer can put together easily. It's kind of like a kids play a LEGO
castle, right? So kind of it's validated in advance when customer receive easy to deploy and easy
for quickly go for online.
Q - `Nehal Chokshi, Northland Securities `
So basically it's the latter of the situations that I have proposed?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Yes, kind of including that computing power, the rack, the cooling, even the tower, the water
tower, dry tower, the battery system, the power module, right? So we have everything pre-built
and validated in advance.
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, and, as Charles mentioned, Nehal, the time-to-delivery and time-to-online, for our
customers is critical because they have in customers that they're waiting for. So that's a huge
selling point.
Q - `Nehal Chokshi, Northland Securities `
Yes, so is Data Center Building Block Solutions at least going to be representative of 10% of the
deals that 10% of the deal value that you're going to be doing in the September quarter?A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
It will be steadily growing. I hope very soon it will be more than 20% or even more, more than
30%, because so many people provide a system computing power, but we instead are not just
computing power but total solution, a data center or cloud total solution.
Q - `Nehal Chokshi, Northland Securities `
Great; thank you very much.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Thank you.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Brandon Nispel, KeyBanc Capital Markets with KeyCorp; you may proceed.
Q - `Brandon Nispel, KeyBanc Capital Markets `
Hey, guys, thanks for taking the question. I was hoping you could unpack gross margins during the
quarter. Last quarter you had provided some adjusted gross margins based on inventory
reserves. So I was hoping you could help us understand whether there were any inventory
reserves this quarter and if you're expecting any in 1Q, including maybe potential impact from
tariffs. Thank you.
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, thanks, Brandon, so we did mention a little bit about that last quarter, and what I would say is
that they came -- they did come in as expected; however, we believe that that's not going to be
the case going forward, so we think that we're anticipating a stabilization in that area.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Yes, especially with our DCBBS and with our service function, so we have customer build a data
center and make sure they go for online smoothly, and that will kind of make customers' business
much more smooth. And just, I mean, it's good for our inventory control as well. That's our main
less return product. So that will help less slow-moving, less product write-down as well. Yeah, but
we expect we will improve in that area.
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, and, Brandon, with respect to tariffs, the situation's dynamic, we're actively monitoring the
tariff environment. We know there's news coming out next week; if we have any updates, we'll
share it with you, but we can only watch and react, as every other business is.
Q - `Brandon Nispel, KeyBanc Capital Markets `
Thanks for taking the questions.
Operator
The next question is from the line of Quinn Bolton with Needham & Co. You may proceed.
Q - `Shadi Mitwalli, Needham & Company `Hey, guys, this is `Shadi Mitwalli, Needham & Company on for Quinn. Thanks for letting me ask the question. My first
question is on the recent export licenses for NVIDIA and AMD. Just curious to see how
Supermicro is positioned to potentially support these deployments, and does the guide embed
any of these potential shipments?
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Are you referring to H20?
Q - `Shadi Mitwalli, Needham & Company `
Yes, H20, I believe that.
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Are you referring to the H20 part?
Q - `Shadi Mitwalli, Needham & Company `
Yes.
A - `David Weigand, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, we're not anticipating selling those products at any quantities.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Yes, not -- at least the nine high-volume products, yes.
Q - `Shadi Mitwalli, Needham & Company `
Got it. And then I have a follow-up, which is a clarification question from, I think, Northland, but did
you say that the Data Center Building Block Solutions will be around 20% to 30% of total revenue
in the September quarter?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
No. I mean, that will be a further away, maybe next year summer. So it will ramp up gradually, not
immediately.
Q - `Shadi Mitwalli, Needham & Company `
Got it. Thank you.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Jon Tanwanteng, CJS Securities with CJS Securities. You may proceed.
Q - `Jon Tanwanteng, CJS Securities `
Hi; good afternoon, and thank you for taking my questions. First one, just on the Data Center
Building Block Solutions, I was just wondering what the gross margin profile looks like there
compared to the corporate average, and what an incremental dollar of sales in that kind of
solution adds to your gross profit.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `Very good question. Data Center Building Block Solutions, I believe we are the first one. So we
are the first company to introduce Data Center Total Solution with building block feature. So the
profit margin, the value to customer ratio, both are good. Much better than commodity product.
When you had to compete with many companies, that's the pressure for profit margin, right? But
the Data Center Building Block Solutions instead, we have much less competition.
Q - `Jon Tanwanteng, CJS Securities `
Okay, great. Thank you. That's helpful. And then just on the B300 launch, do you expect to see
yourself distancing yourself from competitors both pricing-wise and allocation-wise when that
reaches volume, or is there any reason that you may see more of what you've seen in the B100
and B200 timeframes?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
We work with our vendor very closely, right? And so I believe our position will be second to none.
So, for sure, we'll be a good chance once it's available from our vendor, we are very happy to
promote quickly.
Q - `Jon Tanwanteng, CJS Securities `
Okay, great. Thank you.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Thank you.
Operator
The last question is from the line of `Vijay Rakesh, Mizuho with Mizuho. You may proceed.
Q - Analyst
Yes. Hi; it's (inaudible). And just a quick question on this, on the $33 billion guide for fiscal '26, one
thing, what is contemplated in terms of revenues from the DataVolt win that you announced?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
We don't make a comment for specific customer, but we do have a growing customer base in
Europe and in the Middle East. So we feel excited to grow business in the territory, Middle East,
BV, and believe it will be a good percentage for Supermicro business to grow.
Q - Analyst
Got it. And then on the DCBBS, obviously, a nice move with the racks and enabling your go-to-
market timing, I guess. Just wondering what would be the split of a full NVL72 rack versus HGX
that you're shipping now? Or end of the year, end of the fiscal year?
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Yes, we started shipping something about now. Kind of like, for example, the liquid-to-air sidecar
that we are shipping now. And CDU, we have been shipping for a while, including indoor CDU, we
are shipping now. And BBU, we will start shipping very soon. Power shelf, we are ready to ship this
quarter. And --So lots of parts, we have been shipping for a few months or ready to ship in volume. And some
other will be ready in the next few months or a few quarters. So, eventually, it will be a really big
product line. The goal is to support all the major components for customers to build their data
center, their AI factory. So, kind of to offer a one-stop shop. One-stop shop not just to save
customer time but to make sure, when customers put those components together, it will work
and optimize for both efficiency, quality, and cost.
Q - `Vijay Rakesh, Mizuho `
Got it. Thanks.
A - `Charles Liang, Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board `
Thanks. Great. Thank you.
Operator
That was our last question. Thank you for joining today's call. That will now conclude today's call.
Thank you for your participation, and enjoy the rest of your day.