Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Operating Expenses” under the heading “Research and Development” for a description of our expenditures for
research and development. An inability to introduce new products could adversely affect us, and changing technologies or
consumption patterns could reduce the demand for our products. Rapidly changing technologies and industry standards, along with
frequent new product introductions, characterize the industries that are currently the primary end-users of semiconductors. As these industries evolve and introduce new products, our success will depend on our ability to predict and adapt to these
changes in a timely and cost-effective manner by designing, developing, manufacturing, marketing and providing customer support for our own new products and technologies. The development of new products is a complex and time-consuming process and
often requires significant capital investment. Additionally, expenditures for technology and product development are generally made before the commercial viability for such developments can be assured. There can be no assurance that we will win
competitive bid selection processes, known as “design wins,” for new products. New products and enhancements to existing products can require long development and testing periods. Significant delays in new product releases or significant
problems in creating new products, including any delays in establishing sufficient manufacturing capacity, could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. In addition, design wins do not guarantee that we will make customer sales or that we
will generate sufficient revenue to recover design and development investments. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify
changes in the product markets and requirements of our customers and end-users, including changes due to evolving consumer preferences, international political developments influencing end-user preferences, and natural disasters or other
extraordinary events that impact our customers or end-users and adapt to such changes in a timely and cost-effective manner. Nor can we assure you that products or technologies that may be developed in the future by our competitors and others will
not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. There is no assurance that the products we develop and market will be well received by customers, that we will realize a return on the capital expended to develop new products, that
a significant investment in new products will be profitable or that we will have margins as high as we anticipate at the time of investment or have experienced historically. Further, a fundamental shift in technologies or consumption patterns in our
existing product markets or the product markets of our customers or end-users could have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects. Uncertainties involving the timing and amount of orders, and payment for, our products could adversely affect our business. Our sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders or customer agreements, and we generally do not have long-term supply
arrangements with our customers. Generally, our customers may cancel orders 30 days prior to shipment for standard products and 90 days for custom products without incurring a significant penalty. We routinely generate inventory based on
customers’ estimates of demand for their products, which is difficult to predict. This difficulty may be compounded when we sell to OEMs indirectly through distributors or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts for demand are then
based on estimates provided by multiple parties. In 34 Table of Contents addition, our customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. Furthermore, short customer lead times are standard in the industry due to overcapacity. The
cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products or overproduction due to the failure of anticipated orders to materialize could result in excess obsolete inventory, which could result in write-downs of inventory or
the incurrence of significant cancellation penalties under our arrangements with our raw materials and equipment suppliers. Competition in our industry could prevent us from maintaining our revenues and from raising prices to offset increases in costs. The semiconductor industry is highly competitive, and our ability to compete successfully depends on elements both within and
outside of our control, including industry and general economic trends. Although only a few companies compete with us in most of our product lines, we face significant competition within each of our product lines from major global semiconductor
companies as well as smaller companies focused on specific market niches. Because our components are often building block semiconductors that, in some cases, are integrated into more complex ICs, we also face competition from manufacturers of ICs,
ASICs and fully customized ICs, as well as from customers who develop their own IC products. In addition, companies not currently in direct competition with us may introduce competing products in the future. In different product lines, we compete,
to varying degrees, on the basis of price, quality, technical performance, product features, product system compatibility, customized design, strategic relationships with customers, new product innovation, availability, delivery timing and
reliability and customer sales and technical support. Gross margins in the industry vary by geographic region depending on local demand for the products in which semiconductors are used, such as personal computers, tablets, industrial and
telecommunications equipment, consumer electronics and automotive goods. Any inability to maintain revenues or raise prices to offset increases in costs could have a material adverse effect on our gross margin and on our business and prospects as a
whole. The semiconductor components industry has also been undergoing significant restructuring and consolidation that could adversely
affect our competitiveness. Many of our competitors, particularly larger competitors resulting from consolidations, may have certain advantages over us, including: substantially greater financial and other resources with which to withstand adverse
economic or market conditions and pursue development, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products; longer independent operating histories; presence in key markets; patent protection; and greater name recognition. Unless we maintain manufacturing efficiency, our future profitability could be adversely affected. Manufacturing semiconductor components involves highly complex processes that require advanced equipment. We and our competitors continuously
modify these processes in an effort to improve yields and product performance. Impurities or other difficulties in the manufacturing process can lower yields. Our manufacturing efficiency is and will continue to be an important factor in our future
profitability, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our manufacturing efficiency or increase manufacturing efficiency to the same extent as our competitors. From time to time, we have experienced difficulty in beginning production at new facilities, transferring production to other facilities or in
effecting transitions to new manufacturing processes that have caused us to suffer delays in product deliveries or reduced yields. We cannot assure you that we will not experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields or experience
product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other conditions and events, capacity constraints, construction delays, transferring production to other facilities (including as a part of our cost reduction measures and in reaction to
man-made and natural 35 Table of Contents disasters, such as the 2011 flooding in Thailand), upgrading or expanding existing facilities, changing our process technologies or uncertainty as a result of the acquisition and integration of
manufacturing facilities acquired as a result of our acquisition activities, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues. Our results of operations could also be adversely affected by the increase in fixed costs and operating expenses
related to increases in production capacity, if revenues do not increase proportionately. We could be required to incur significant
capital expenditures for manufacturing, information technology and equipment to remain competitive, and any failure, inadequacy or delayed implementation could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. Such capital expenditures and
commitments, as well as other commitments, may materially decrease our liquidity. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash on
hand, cash generated from operations and funds from external borrowings and equity issuances. Semiconductor manufacturing has historically required a constant upgrading of process technology to remain competitive, as new and enhanced semiconductor
processes are developed which permit smaller, more efficient and more powerful semiconductor devices. Our manufacturing, assembly and test facilities have required and will continue to require significant investments in manufacturing technology and
equipment. We have made substantial capital expenditures and installed significant production capacity to support new technologies and increased production volume. However, there can be no assurance that we will successfully develop and utilize
these new technologies. There also is no assurance that the new technologies we do develop and utilize will be sufficient to support our business operations and strategies, or that we will realize a return on the capital expended to develop such new
technologies. We also may incur significant costs to implement new manufacturing and information technologies to increase our
productivity and efficiency. Any such implementation, however, can be negatively impacted by failures or inadequacies of the new manufacturing or information technology and unforeseen delays in its implementation, any of which may require us to
spend additional resources to correct these problems or, in some instances, to conclude that the new technology implementation should be abandoned. In the case of abandonment, we may have to recognize losses for amounts previously expended in
connection with such implementation that have been capitalized on our balance sheet. In the recent past, we have undertaken various and
material cost reduction measures which we believe have been largely successful. However, these reductions, and any future reductions, may unintentionally affect our ability to remain competitive in efficiency and productivity. Ultimately, we may be
forced to increase our future capital expenditures in unexpected ways to meet our operational needs in, among other areas, manufacturing, information technology and equipment. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient capital resources to
make timely and necessary investments in the areas discussed above or other areas we have not identified. We are subject to risks
associated with natural disasters and other business disruptions. Our worldwide operations are subject to natural disasters and
other business disruptions from time to time, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial reporting and condition. We are susceptible to losses and interruptions caused by floods, hurricanes, typhoons, droughts,
and other extreme weather conditions, earthquakes, tsunamis, volcanoes, and similar natural disasters, as well as power outages, power shortages, telecommunications failures, industrial accidents, and similar events. Such events can cause direct
injury or damage to our employees and property, including our books and financial and corporate records and data, and related internal controls, and can also have significant direct and indirect consequences. For example, such events can negatively
impact revenues and earnings and can significantly impact cash flow, both from decreased revenue and from increased costs associated with the event. Such costs may include expenses to 36 Table of Contents restore production or to move production to other facilities, including incremental capital expenditures and costs for expedited shipping, expenses incurred with a shut-down of the damaged
facility, including employee severance payments, and other unusual costs and expenses such as fixed asset impairments, inventory write-downs, charges relating to cancellation of purchase orders for excess materials and charges for restoration and
recovery work. Overall costs may also be impacted by other factors, such as the under-absorption of our manufacturing and operating support overhead. For example, in the case of our facility in Roznov, Czech Republic that manufactures silicon wafers
used by a number of our facilities, any natural or man-made disaster, operational disruption, or other extraordinary event that impacted the facility or regional infrastructure would have a substantial adverse effect on our ability to produce a
number of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, costs, and/or prospects if we were unable to effectively source silicon wafers on acceptable terms from qualified third parties to replace the production
loss. Such events may also affect the infrastructure of the country in which the event occurs, causing water damage, power outages and rolling blackouts, transportation delays and restrictions, public health issues and economic instability and
disrupting local and international supply chains. As a result, we could experience shortages of, and interruptions in supply and increased prices for, components that we source from companies located in or with operations in any such country, as
well as from other suppliers whose supply chains may similarly be affected. Such shortages and interruptions may also affect our ability to communicate with our customers and suppliers and to timely deliver our products to customers and, as a
result, our customers may seek substitute products from other manufacturers. In addition, damage or destruction to our books and financial and corporate records and data could adversely affect our ability to prepare our financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and the historical and future reporting of our financial results and our ability to integrate the financial reporting and internal control systems of acquired companies. Responding to natural
disasters and their consequences will also require a significant amount of time and attention from management. The diversion of management attention away from ongoing operations and key research and development, marketing or sales efforts could
adversely affect ongoing operations and business relationships. Although we carry insurance to generally compensate for losses of the type noted above, such insurance may be subject to deductible and coverage limits and may not be adequate to cover
all losses that may be incurred or continue to be available in the affected area at commercially reasonable rates and terms. If we
were to lose one of our large customers, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. Product sales to our ten
largest customers have traditionally accounted for a significant amount of our business. Many of our customers operate in cyclical industries, and, in the past, we have experienced significant fluctuations from period to period in the volume of our
products ordered. Generally, our agreements with our customers impose no minimum or continuing obligations to purchase our products. We cannot assure you that any of our customers will not turn to other suppliers, significantly reduce orders or seek
price reductions in the future or that the loss of one or more of our customers would not have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects. See Part I, Item 1 “Business - Customers” for a description of revenues from our
largest customers. We rely on customers in the automotive and communications industries for a significant portion of our revenue. A significant portion of our sales are to customers within the automotive and communications industries (including networking).
Sales into these industries represented approximately 33% and 18% of our revenue, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2015, and those percentages will vary from quarter to quarter. Both the automotive and communications industries are
cyclical, and, as a result, our customers in these industries are sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, which can adversely affect sales of our products. 37 Table of Contents Additionally, the quantity and price of our products sold to customers in these industries could decline despite continued growth in these end markets. Lower sales to customers in the automotive
or communications industry may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The
loss of our sources of raw materials or manufacturing services, or increases in the prices of such goods or services, could adversely affect our operations and productivity. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner, the
costs of our raw materials increase significantly, their quality deteriorates or the raw materials give rise to compatibility or performance issues in our products. Our manufacturing processes rely on many raw materials, including polysilicon,
silicon wafers, gold, copper, lead frames, mold compound, ceramic packages and various chemicals and gases. Generally, our agreements with suppliers impose no minimum or continuing supply obligations, and we obtain our raw materials and supplies
from a large number of sources on a just-in-time basis. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Although we believe that our current supplies of raw
materials are adequate, shortages could occur in various essential materials due to interruption of supply or increased demand in the industry. In addition, for some of our products, we are dependent upon a limited number of highly specialized suppliers for required components and
materials. The number of qualified alternative suppliers for these kinds of technologies is extremely limited. The inability of such suppliers to deliver adequate supplies of production materials or other supplies could disrupt production in
material ways. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will not lose our suppliers for these key technologies or that our suppliers will be able to meet performance and quality specifications or delivery schedules. Disruption or termination of our
limited supply sources for these components and materials could delay our shipments of products utilizing these technologies and damage relationships with current and prospective customers. We also use third-party contractors for some of our manufacturing activities, primarily for wafer fabrication and the assembly and testing of
final goods. Our agreements with these manufacturers typically require us to forecast product needs and commit to purchase services consistent with these forecasts and, in some cases, require longer-term commitments in the early stages of the
relationship. Our operations and customer relations could be materially adversely affected if these contractual relationships were disrupted or terminated, the cost of such services increased significantly, the quality of the services provided
deteriorated or our forecasts proved to be materially incorrect. In any such case, arranging for replacement contractors can be time consuming and costly, and we may encounter start-up difficulties. Our international operations subject us to risks inherent in doing business on an international level that could adversely impact our
results of operations. A significant amount of our total revenue is derived from the Asia/Pacific region, the Americas, and
Europe, and we maintain significant operations in these regions. In addition, we rely on a number of contract manufacturers whose operations are primarily located in the Asia/Pacific region. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in
overcoming the risks that relate to or arise from operating in international markets. Risks inherent in doing business on an international level include, among others, the following: • economic and political instability (including as a result of the threat or occurrence of armed international conflict or terrorist attacks); 38 Table of Contents • changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers; • exposure to different legal standards, customs, business practices, tariffs, duties and other trade barriers, including changes with respect to
price protection, competition practices, IP, anti-corruption and environmental compliance, trade and travel restrictions, pandemics, import and export license requirements and restrictions, and accounts receivable collections; • transportation and other supply chain delays and disruptions; • power supply shortages and shutdowns; • fluctuations in raw material costs and energy costs; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations including collective bargaining agreements and workers councils, exposure to foreign labor
laws and other employment and labor issues; • currency fluctuations; • currency convertibility and repatriation; • taxation of our earnings and the earnings of our personnel; • limitations on the repatriation of earnings and potential taxation of foreign profits in the United States; • potential violations by our international employees or third party agents of international or U.S. laws relevant to foreign operations (e.g., the
Federal Corrupt Practices Act); • difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights; and • other risks relating to the administration of or changes in, or new interpretations of, the laws, regulations and policies of the jurisdictions in
which we conduct our business. Other activities outside the United States are subject to additional risks associated
with fluctuating currency values and exchange rates, hard currency shortages and controls on currency exchange. For instance, while our sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, worldwide semiconductor pricing is influenced by currency rate
fluctuations. The Company could be subject to changes in its tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation
or exposure to additional tax liabilities. We have historically benefited from relatively low effective tax rates because most of
our income has been earned and reinvested in jurisdictions outside the U.S. However, our effective tax rate is uncertain on an ongoing basis. Changes to income tax regulations in the United States and the jurisdictions in which we operate, or in the
interpretation of such laws, could, under our existing tax structure, significantly increase our effective tax rate and ultimately reduce our cash flow from operations and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In
addition, other factors or events, including business combinations and investment transactions, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns or as a result
of deficiencies asserted by taxing authorities, increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, changes in available tax credits, increasing operations in high tax jurisdictions, and changes in tax rates, could also increase our future
effective tax rate. Our tax filings are subject to review or audit by the Internal Revenue Service and state, local and foreign taxing
authorities. We exercise significant judgment in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and, in the ordinary course of our business, there may be transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are
also liable for potential tax liabilities of businesses we acquire. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination in an audit may be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax
provisions and accruals. An assessment of additional taxes because of an audit could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 39 Table of Contents Further changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise as a result of the base
erosion and profit shifting project that was undertaken by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”). The OECD, which represents a coalition of member countries, recommended changes to numerous long-standing tax
principles. These changes, if adopted by countries, could increase tax uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes. In the U.S., a number of proposals for broad reform of the corporate tax system are under evaluation by
various legislative and administrative bodies, but it is not possible to accurately determine the overall impact of such proposals on our effective tax rate at this time. The distribution of any earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to the United States may be subject to United States income taxes, thus
reducing our net income. We hold a significant amount of cash and cash equivalents outside the United States in various foreign
subsidiaries. As we intend to reinvest certain of our foreign earnings indefinitely, this cash held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries is not readily available to meet certain of our cash requirements in the United States. We
require a substantial amount of cash in the United States for operating requirements, debt repurchases, payments, acquisitions, including our potential acquisition of Fairchild, and stock repurchases. If we are unable to address our U.S. cash
requirements through operations, through borrowings under our current debt agreements or from other sources of cash obtained at an acceptable cost, it may be necessary for us to consider repatriation of earnings that are permanently reinvested, and
we may be required to pay additional taxes under current tax laws, which could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Except as required under U.S. tax law, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not
been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. If our intent changes or if these funds are needed for our U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue or pay U.S. taxes on some or all
of these undistributed earnings. Any such taxes would reduce our net income in the period in which these earnings are distributed. We operate a global business through numerous foreign subsidiaries, and there is a risk that tax authorities will challenge our transfer
pricing methodologies and/or legal entity structures, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We conduct operations worldwide through our foreign subsidiaries, and are therefore subject to complex transfer pricing regulations in the
jurisdictions in which we operate. Transfer pricing regulations generally require that, for tax purposes, transactions between related parties be priced on a basis that would be comparable to an arm’s length transaction between unrelated
parties. There is uncertainty and inherent subjectivity in complying with these rules. To the extent that any foreign tax authorities disagree with our transfer pricing policies, we could become subject to significant tax liabilities and penalties.
Based on our current knowledge and probability assessment of potential outcomes, we believe that we have provided for all tax exposures. However, the ultimate outcome of a tax examination could differ materially from our provisions and could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our legal organizational structure could
result in unanticipated unfavorable tax or other consequences which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operational results. Changes in tax laws, regulations, future jurisdictional profitability of us and our
subsidiaries, and related regulatory interpretations in the countries in which we operate may impact the taxes we pay or tax provision we record, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, any challenges to how
our entities are structured or realigned or their business purpose by taxing authorities could result in us becoming subject to significant tax liabilities and penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition, operating results and cash flows. 40 Table of Contents A significant amount of our international business is transacted in local currency and a
significant percentage of our cash and cash equivalents are held outside of the United States, which exposes us to risk relating to currency fluctuations, changes in foreign exchange regulations and repatriation delays and costs, which could
negatively impact our sales, profitability and financial flexibility. We have sizeable sales and operations in Asia and European
regions. A significant amount of this business is transacted in local currency. As a result, our financial performance is impacted by currency fluctuations. A significant percentage of our cash and cash equivalents is currently held outside the United States, and we continue to generate profits
outside of the United States, while many of our liabilities, including our outstanding indebtedness, and certain other cash payments, such as share repurchases, are payable in U.S. dollars. Repatriation of some of the funds held outside the United States could have potential adverse tax consequences and could be subject to delay
because of required local country approvals or local obligations. In addition, at times we are required to make cash deposits to support bank guarantees of our obligations under certain office leases or amounts we owe to certain vendors from whom we
purchase goods and services. Nearly all of these arrangements are outside of the United States, and these cash deposits are not available for other uses as long as the bank guarantees are outstanding. Foreign exchange regulations may also limit our
ability to convert or repatriate foreign currency. As a result of having a lower amount of cash and cash equivalents in the United States, our financial flexibility may be reduced, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to make interest
and principal payments due under our various debt obligations. Our balance of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments was $517.8 million at December 31, 2014 and our balance of cash and cash equivalents was $617.6 million at
December 31, 2015, and of those amounts, approximately $203.6 million and $240.7 million was available in the United States at December 31, 2014 and 2015, respectively. If we fail to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, our results of operations and competitive position could deteriorate. Our success, both generally and in connection with mergers and acquisitions, depends upon our ability to attract, retain and
motivate highly-skilled design, technical, managerial, marketing and financial personnel. The market for personnel with such qualifications is highly competitive. In addition, from time to time, we have announced certain cost reductions that
included the freezing of salaries and elimination of bonuses, mandatory unpaid time off, factory shutdowns and reduction in personnel. We also establish performance criteria for awards to officers and employees under bonus and other incentive plans
and programs that may not be satisfied. These measures, as well as any future measures, could negatively affect morale and lead to unintended employee attrition at all levels of our organization. Moreover, we have not entered into employment
agreements with all of our key personnel and our existing employment agreements do not require the employee to continue to work for us. As employee incentives, we have issued common stock options that generally have exercise prices at the market value at the time of the grant
and that are subject to vesting over time, RSUs with time-based vesting and performance-based awards. Any difficulty relating to obtaining stockholder approval of new, or amendments to, equity compensation plans could limit our ability to issue
these types of awards. Our stock price at times has declined substantially, reducing the effectiveness of certain of these incentives. Loss of the services of, or failure to effectively recruit, qualified personnel, including senior managers and
design engineers, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 41 Table of Contents We use a significant amount of intellectual property in our business. Some of that
intellectual property is currently subject to disputes with third parties, and litigation could arise in the future. If we are unable to protect the intellectual property we use, our business could be adversely affected. We rely on various laws and regulations governing our registered and unregistered IP assets, patents, trade secrets, trademarks, mask works
and copyrights to protect our products and technologies. These laws and regulations are subject to legislative and regulatory change and interpretation by courts. Additionally, some of our products and technologies are not covered by any patents or
pending patent applications. With respect to our IP generally, we cannot assure you that: • any of the substantial number of U.S. or foreign patents and pending patent applications that we employ in our business will not lapse or be
invalidated, circumvented, challenged, abandoned or licensed to others; • any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued or have the coverage originally sought; • any of the trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how or mask works that we employ in our business will not lapse or be invalidated,
circumvented, challenged, abandoned or licensed to others; or • any of our pending or future trademark, copyright, or mask work applications will be issued or have the coverage originally sought. In addition, our competitors or others may develop products or technologies that are similar or superior to our
products or technologies, duplicate our products or technologies or design around our protected technologies. Effective IP protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in the United States and in foreign countries. Also, we may from time to time in the future be notified of claims that we may be infringing third-party IP rights. If necessary or desirable,
we may seek licenses under such IP rights. However, we cannot assure you that we will obtain such licenses or that the terms of any offered licenses will be acceptable to us. The failure to obtain a license from a third party for IP we use could
cause us to incur substantial liabilities or to suspend the manufacture or shipment of products or our use of processes requiring the technologies. Litigation could cause us to incur significant expense by adversely affecting sales of the challenged
product or technologies and diverting the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favor. In the event of an adverse outcome in any such litigation, we may be required to: • pay substantial damages; • indemnify customers or distributors; • cease the manufacture, use, sale or importation of infringing products; • expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies; • discontinue the use of processes; or • obtain licenses, which may not be available on reasonable terms, to the infringing technologies. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in any such development or acquisition. Any such development, acquisition or license could
require the expenditure of substantial time and other resources. We also seek to protect our proprietary technologies, including
technologies that may not be patented or patentable, in part by confidentiality agreements and, if applicable, inventors’ rights agreements with our collaborators, advisors, employees and consultants. We cannot assure you that these agreements
will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that persons or institutions will not assert rights to IP arising out of our research. 42 Table of Contents We may not be able to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights, which may harm
our ability to compete and adversely affect our business. Our ability to enforce our patents, trademarks, copyrights, software
licenses and other IP is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our IP rights in various countries. When we seek to enforce our rights, we are often subject to claims that the IP right is invalid, is
otherwise not enforceable or is licensed to the party against whom we are asserting a claim. In addition, our assertion of IP rights often results in the other party seeking to assert alleged IP rights of its own against us, which may adversely
impact our business. An unfavorable ruling in these sorts of matters could include money damages or, in cases for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing or selling one or more products, which could in turn
negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of these claims asserted by other parties with respect to their alleged IP rights. We are subject to litigation risks, including securities class action litigation, which may be costly to defend and the outcome of which
is uncertain. All industries, including the semiconductor industry, are subject to legal claims, including securities litigation,
litigation in connection with acquisitions and litigation over executive compensation and disclosure of executive compensation. The price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile, and we can provide no assurance that securities
litigation will not be filed against us in the future. In addition, we can provide no assurance that our past or future acquisitions and executive compensation will not subject us to additional litigation. This sort of litigation can be particularly
costly and may divert the attention of our management and our resources in general. We are involved in a variety of legal matters, most of which we consider either routine matters that arise in the normal course of business or immaterial for our
aggregate business operations. These routine matters typically fall into broad categories such as those involving suppliers and customers, employment and labor and IP. We believe it is unlikely that the final outcome of these legal claims will have
a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, defense and settlement costs can be substantial, even with respect to claims that we believe have no merit. Due to the inherent uncertainty of the
litigation process, the resolution of any particular legal claim or proceeding could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Further, uncertainties resulting from the initiation and
continuation of securities or other litigation could harm our ability to obtain credit and financing for our operations and to compete in the marketplace. See Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” of this report for more information on
our legal proceedings. We are exposed to increased costs and risks associated with complying with increasing and new regulation of
corporate governance and disclosure standards. Like most publicly traded companies, we incur significant cost and spend a
significant amount of management time and internal resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, which requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our
internal control over financial reporting and attestations of the effectiveness of these systems by our management and by our independent registered public accounting firm. As we continue to make strategic acquisitions, mergers and alliances, the
integration of these businesses increases the complexity of our systems of controls. While we devote significant resources and time to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements under Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”), we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate control over our financial process and reporting in the future. 43 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not
identify a material weakness in the combined company’s internal control over financial reporting in the future. Failure to comply with SOX, including delaying or failing to successfully integrate our acquisitions into our internal control over
financial reporting or the identification and reporting of a material weakness, may cause investors to lose confidence in our consolidated financial statements or even in our ability to recognize the anticipated synergies and benefits of such
transactions, and the trading price of our common stock or other securities may decline. In addition, if we fail to remedy any material weakness, our investors and others may lose confidence in our financial statements, our financial statements may
be materially inaccurate, our access to capital markets may be restricted and the trading price of our common stock may decline. See Part II, Item 9A “Controls and Procedures” of this report for information on disclosure controls and
procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. Regulations that impose disclosure requirements regarding the use of
“conflict” minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in our products will result in additional cost and expense and could result in other significant adverse effects. Rules adopted by the SEC implementing the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act impose diligence and disclosure
requirements regarding the use of “conflict” minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in our products. Compliance with these rules will result in additional cost and expense, including for due diligence
to determine and verify the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, in addition to the cost of remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. These rules
may also affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of our semiconductor devices as there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering “conflict free” metals or components that can be used in our
products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such metals or components in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. The cost of compliance to our service providers, foundries, subcontractors and suppliers could also be
passed along to us, resulting in higher prices for the materials or components we use in our products. Also, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers, stockholders and other stakeholders if we are
unable to sufficiently verify the origins of the metals used in our products. We may also encounter customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict free. If we are not able to meet customer requirements,
such customers may choose to disqualify us as a supplier, which could impact our sales and the value of portions of our inventory. Environmental and other regulatory matters could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and could require expenditures
that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our manufacturing operations are
subject to various environmental laws and regulations relating to the management, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and the emission and discharge of pollutants into the air, water and ground. Our operations are also subject to laws
and regulations relating to workplace safety and worker health, which, among other requirements, regulate employee exposure to hazardous substances. Motorola has agreed to indemnify us for certain environmental and health and safety liabilities
related to the conduct or operation of our business or Motorola’s ownership, occupancy or use of real property occurring prior to the closing of our 1999 recapitalization and spinout from Motorola. We also have purchased environmental insurance
to cover certain claims related to historical contamination and future releases of hazardous substances. However, we cannot assure you that such indemnification arrangements and insurance policy will cover all material environmental costs. In
addition, the nature of our operations exposes us to the continuing risk of environmental and health and safety liabilities. 44 Table of Contents Based on information currently available to us, we believe that the future cost of compliance
with existing environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, and any liability for currently known environmental conditions, will not have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects. However, we cannot predict: • changes in environmental or health and safety laws or regulations; • the manner in which environmental or health and safety laws or regulations will be enforced, administered or interpreted; • our ability to enforce and collect under indemnity agreements and insurance policies relating to environmental liabilities; • the cost of compliance with future environmental or health and safety laws or regulations or the costs associated with any future environmental
claims, including the cost of clean-up of currently unknown environmental conditions; or • the cost of fines, penalties or other legal liability, should we fail to comply with environmental or health and safety laws or regulations. Warranty claims, product liability claims and product recalls could harm our business, results of operations and
financial condition. Manufacturing semiconductors is a highly complex and precise process, requiring production in a tightly
controlled, clean environment. Minute impurities in our manufacturing materials, contaminants in the manufacturing environment, manufacturing equipment failures, and other defects can cause our products to be non-compliant with customer requirements
or otherwise nonfunctional. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to warranty and product liability claims in the event that our products fail to perform as expected or such failure of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily
injury or property damage (or both). In addition, if any of our designed products are or are alleged to be defective, we may be required to participate in their recall. As suppliers become more integrally involved in the electrical design, OEMs are
increasingly expecting them to warrant their products and are increasingly looking to them for contributions when faced with product liability claims or recalls. A successful warranty or product liability claim against us in excess of our available
insurance coverage, if any, and established reserves, or a requirement that we participate in a product recall, would have adverse effects (that could be material) on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, in the
event that our products fail to perform as expected or such failure of our products results, our reputation may be damaged, which could make it more difficult for us to sell our products to existing and prospective customers and could adversely
affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Since a defect or failure in our product could give rise to failures
in the goods that incorporate them (and consequential claims for damages against our customers from their customers), we may face claims for damages that are disproportionate to the revenues and profits we receive from the products involved. In
certain instances, we attempt to limit our liability through our standard terms and conditions of sale and other customer contracts. There is no assurance that such limitations will be effective. New legal requirements, particularly with respect to health care reform, could increase the cost of our employee benefits and adversely
affect our business, liquidity and results of operations. We incur significant costs to maintain competitive employee benefits to
attract and retain our highly skilled personnel. Changes to the regulatory environment with respect to these benefits could adversely affect our business, liquidity and results of operations. In particular, the health care reform legislation enacted
by the U.S. Congress is intended to result in significant changes to the U.S. health care system. This legislation may lead to additional costs related to the implementation of the new healthcare regulations and may impair our ability to provide the
same level of coverage. 45 Table of Contents We may be subject to disruptions or breaches of our secured network that could damage our
reputation and harm our business and operating results. We may be subject to disruptions or breaches of our secured network
caused by computer viruses, illegal hacking, or acts of vandalism or terrorism. Additionally, the proprietary, sensitive or confidential information we manage and store may be subject to accidental loss, misuse, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved
dissemination. Our security measures and/or those of our third party service providers may not detect or prevent such security breaches. In some cases, we may initially be unaware of an incident or its magnitude or effects. The costs to us to
eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in
interruptions and delays that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. We also provide certain confidential and proprietary information to our third party service providers and other business partners, and the
systems of these third parties could be subject to security breaches or otherwise compromised. Any such compromise of our information security could result in the unauthorized publication of our confidential business or proprietary information or
that of other parties with which we do business, cause an interruption in our operations, result in the unauthorized release of customer or employee data, result in a violation of privacy or other laws, expose us to a risk of litigation or damage
our reputation, which could harm our business and operating results. We may be subject to theft, loss, or misuse of personal data
about our employees, customers, or other third parties, which could increase our expenses, damage our reputation, or result in legal or regulatory proceedings. The theft, loss, or misuse of personal data collected, used, stored, or transferred by us to run our business could result in significantly
increased security costs or costs related to defending legal claims. Global privacy legislation, enforcement, and policy activity in this area are rapidly expanding and creating a complex compliance regulatory environment. Costs to comply with and
implement these privacy-related and data protection measures could be significant. In addition, our even inadvertent failure to comply with federal, state, or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in
proceedings against us by governmental entities or others. We face risks related to sales through distributors and other third
parties. We sell a significant, and increasing, portion of our products through distributors. Using third parties for
distribution exposes us to many risks, including competitive pressure, concentration, credit risk, and compliance risks. Distributors may sell products that compete with our products, and we may need to provide financial and other incentives to
focus distributors on the sale of our products. We may rely on one or more key distributors for a product, and the loss of these distributors could reduce our revenue. Distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could
harm our collection of accounts receivable and financial results. Violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) or similar laws by distributors or other third-party intermediaries could have a material impact on our business. Failure to
manage risks related to our use of distributors may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position. 46 Table of Contents Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Relating to Our Indebtedness Our substantial debt could impair our financial condition and adversely affect our ability to operate our business. In the ordinary course of business, we have substantial debt service obligations. On May 1, 2015, we amended our senior revolving credit
facility to among other things, increase the borrowing capacity to $1.0 billion and on June 8, 2015, we issued $690.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 1.00% Notes. We incur debt from time to time to repay or refinance other outstanding
debt, to make acquisitions or for other purposes. See Note 20: “Recent Developments and Subsequent Events” of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for a description of certain
additional debt we may acquire in connection with our acquisition of Fairchild. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences to our potential and current investors, including: • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or
other purposes may be impaired; • the timing, amount and execution of our capital allocation policy, including our share repurchase program, could be affected by the degree to which
we are leveraged; • a significant portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on our debt, which reduces the
funds available to us for our operations; • some of our debt is and will continue to be at variable rates of interest, which may result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in
market interest rates; • our debt agreements may contain, and any agreements to refinance our debt likely will contain, financial and restrictive covenants, and our failure
to comply with them may result in an event of default which if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us; • our level of indebtedness will increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions; • as our long-term debt ages, we may need to renegotiate or repay such debt or seek additional financing (see Part II, Item 7
“