Q4 2015 Earnings Call

Operator
Good day and welcome to the Ferrari NV 2015 Results Conference Call. Today's conference is
being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Ms. `Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations, Head
of IR. Please go ahead.
`Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Tina, and good day to everyone on the call. There are two topics that we'd like to
cover today. First, the group full year 2015 operating results and then our full year 2016 guidance.
In light of this, the duration of the call is expected to be around 60 minutes. All the relevant
materials are available on the Ferrari Investor Relations website. Today's call will be hosted by the
group Chairman, `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman; and Mr. `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer, group Chief Financial Officer. At the
end of the presentation, they will be available to answer your questions.
Before we begin, let me remind you that any forward-looking statements that we might make
during today's call are subject to the risks and uncertainties mentioned in the Safe Harbor
statement included on page two of today's full year 2015 results presentation, and the call will be
governed by this language.
With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Marchionne.
`Sergio Marchionne, Chairman `
Thanks very much, Nicoletta. I'm going to keep my comments relatively short at the opening here
and pass along to Alessandro to take you through the details of 2015 and the guidance for the
current year. The best way to describe the theme is that it, in our view, was a phenomenal year. Itwas the best result in the history of Ferrari. It fired on all cylinders, pardon the expression, but I
think we were able to deliver certainly in terms of operating performance exactly what we have
set out in our road show back in the fall of last year. The forecast for 2016 is the confirmation of
what we told you when we were presenting the Ferrari case with the investor base.
The order backlog continues to be strong. Every indication, plans that we will achieve and, in all
likelihood, exceed the numbers that we're providing you as guidance. A very important objective
for us remains, as I mentioned last year when we met, that we will be targeting, at the earliest
possible time, the production of roughly €1 billion EBITDA from the house. So, all our efforts are in
that direction. The Formula 1 team is doing well. I think we're getting ready now for the trials of
the cars in the month of February and ultimately the car racing on March 20 in Australia. And the
indication is that performance will be in line with the expectations that we laid out last year.
So, on that note, I'm going to pass it on to Alessandro and I'll be more than glad to take
questions.
`Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Mr. Marchionne, and good morning, good afternoon, good evening to everybody.
We're in the deck that is supporting the call on page three, discussing our full year result which
I'm very proud to present (3:04) as Mr. Marchionne mentioned before. Our shipments grew to
7,664 units for the full year 2015, showing an increase of 6%. This was led by V8 models, up 17%,
thanks to the success of California T, 458 Speciale A, and the newly launched 488 GTB, which
more than offset the end of life cycle of the 458 Italia and 458 Spider. On the other hand, the 12
models were down 24% due to the F12berlinetta and the FF being at their fourth and fifth year of
commercialization, respectively. Please let me remind you that we started shipping the F12 Tour
de France in December. Group net revenues reached €2.85 billion, up 3%, which is higher than
the guidance we provided in October. Adjusted EBITDA reached €748 million with a margin
increase of 110 basis points which was better than guidance. Our net profit for the group was
€290 million, the highest we've achieved in the history of Ferrari, up 9%, which is the highest level
ever reached.
Our net debt position as of December 31 was €1.938 billion, better than guidance, which included
obviously the self-liquidating portfolio of our financial receivables. And net of that was €797
million. Our free cash flow generation for full year 2015 was €390 million and let me remind you
that we comment our financial results using non-GAAP measures as defined on page 22 of the
deck that we consider key to describe our financial performance.
During the fourth quarter of 2015, we unveiled the F12 Tour de France which we began shipping in
December, as I mentioned before, few units for 2015 but a relevant contribution for 2016. The
result of Scuderia Ferrari in 2015 was positive and we are targeting albeit a relevant (4:50) ranking
for 2016 season. Finally, Ferrari completed the spin-off from FCA on January 3, 2016, and
commenced trading at Milan Stock Exchange in January 4 this year.
Our targets for 2016 are in line with our guidance, shipments including limited edition supercars
to reach approximately 7,900 units. This will result and to support net revenues in excess of €2.9
billion assuming FX at current market condition. Adjusted EBITDA is expected to be about €770
million. Net debt is expected to be lower than €1.95 billion excluding the self-liquidating financial
receivables portfolio below €750 million, and that includes the distribution to shareholders that
we have highlighted in our press release which is subject to the approval of the 2015 annual
accounts and review of other relevant financial statements by the Board of Directors.If we move to page four, we are showing our operating highlights for 2015. Net revenues were up
3% mainly due to cars and spare parts, that posted an increase of 7% driven by volume, FX, and
personalization which contributed to cars and spare parts were 16%, and were partially offset by
engines which were down 30%. Adjusted EBIT for the group increased by €69 million to €473
million resulting in a 200-basis-point margin growth. The adjusted EBIT improvement benefited
from various variables and a more detailed explanation will be given as we comment page seven.
EBIT also €444 million versus €389 million last year resulting in 150-basis-point margin increase.
Our adjusted EBITDA improved by 8% achieving €748 million. The result was driven by strong
operating performance partially offset by lower D&A as a result of the phase-out of the 458
family. EBITDA stood at €719 million showing an increase of €41 million versus last year. Full year
2015 free cash flow generation was primarily driven by the strong increase in cash flow from
operating activities which included the following onetime cash inflows: the sale of certain
investment properties; the reimbursement of the financing of the inventory related to the
establishment of the Maserati standalone business in China; the sale of some financial asset
portfolios of FFS S.p.A. and FFS KK, which are two of our consolidated subsidiaries in the Financial
Services area, partially offset by the onetime extra bonus payment in December which was made
to all the Ferrari employees; the per unit amount was €5,000 each.
Net debt was €1.938 billion at the end of December from €566 million net cash as of the end of
December 31, 2014, and this was primarily due to the capital organization in connection with our
IPO and spin-off, partially offset by the strong free cash flow generation.
If we move on to page five for a deep dive on shipments. At the end of December, the hub
Americas which represent 34% of our total shipments was up 7%, USA performance was primarily
driven by California T and continued contribution of LaFerrari. EMEA representing 44% of our total
shipments increased by 2%. In total, UK was the Ferrari largest market in EMEA which had a 5%
increase in shipments supported by 458 Speciale A and the California T. A strong performance
was reported in Italy, plus 17%, thanks to 458 Speciale A and California T. Germany and Middle
East experienced a slowdown. The first due to a company decision to reduce allocation (8:30)
and the latter due to F12berlinetta being at its fourth year of commercialization.
Greater China was 8% of total shipments decreased by 10% – or 8% of total shipment for the
group. Hong Kong and Taiwan shipments increased by 22%, thanks to California T and 458
Speciale A. China Mainland shipments dropped by 22% due to the 458 family phase-out and the
F12berlinetta being at its fourth year of commercialization. Please keep in mind that China
represents less than 5% of our total shipments.
Rest of Asia Pacific representing 14% of total shipments increased by 26% and Australia
shipments increased by 44% driven by California T and 458 Speciale A. Japan which had a
relevant increase of 33% mainly driven by favorable market conditions and the growth in Japan
was primarily driven by the California T and the 458 Speciale.
Moving to page six, we are providing the bridge of our net revenues which reached €2.854
billion, up 3% versus last year, mainly due to higher volumes. At constant currency, net revenues
would have declined by 3%. Let me also highlight that during the fourth quarter of 2015, we
benefited from deliveries of the 488 GTB which completed its distribution rollout and the
commencement of shipment of 488 Spider and F12 Tour de France.
Cars and spare parts were (9:59) €136 million increased from that line in revenues. Americas
increased by 40%, thanks to – strictly due to higher sales from LaFerrari, higher volumes, and FX
impact. Rest of Asia Pacific showed an increase of 23% mostly related to higher volumes versuslast year in Japan, partially offset by EMEA, down 12%, mostly due to FX and lower shipment in
Italy; Greater China, down 11%, due to lower shipments and mix. The proportion of V12 models
shipped fell from 27% from the 12 months ended December 31, 2014, to 19% for the 12 months
ended December 31, 2015, and was primarily driven by a 34% decrease in shipments of the
F12berlinetta, attributable to the fact that the car is in its fourth year of commercialization.
Shipments of V8 models increased as a result of achieving full production with California T, 458
Speciale A, and 488 GTB, partially offset by decreases in shipments of the 458 Italia and 458
Spider, and 458 Speciale. On engine revenues, engine net revenues generated €219 million for
the full year 2015, a decrease of €92 million, or 30%, from the €311 million for the full year 2014.
The €92 million decrease was almost totally attributable to decreasing net revenues generated
by 31% decrease in the volumes of engines sold to Maserati.
Sponsorship, commercial and brand net revenues reached €441 million for 2015, an increase of
€24 million, or 6%, from €417 million for 2014. Other net revenues amounted to €114 million for
2015 versus €90 million for 2014, primarily driven by the performance of other supporting
activities.
Moving to page seven where we have our adjusted EBIT bridge. You can see the year-over-year
changes in adjusted EBIT main items. Volumes were up for €45 million, thanks to higher volume of
383 cars, excluding LaFerrari, mainly due to higher sales of California T, 458 Speciale A, and the
newly launched 488 GTB. Positive contribution also came from personalization.
Mix was slightly negative, amounting to €6 million, mainly due to growth of V8 versus V12, partially
offset by higher sales of LaFerrari and special car FXX K. Industrial costs and R&D were down €3
million attributable to the 2016 development of the power unit for F1 racing activity partially offset
by a lower R&D on road cars, primarily R&D and product D&A of the 458 family due to the phase-
out and efficiencies on production costs.
SG&A costs were down by €15 million, mainly due to our focus on directly operated retail stores,
corporate costs as a result of the dual leasing in the U.S. and in Italy, and F1 racing activities.
Positive impact from transaction exchange rate, net of hedging, resulting in an increase of €41
million, mainly due to U.S. dollar and GBP that were partially offset by yen. Other, as the final item,
was up by €7 million, includes better results from brand and commercial activities and, to a lesser
extent, supporting activities including Ferrari Financial Services.
On page eight, we are providing the bridge of our net cash and we show the evolution from the
€566 million, a positive at the start of the year, with a net debt of €1,938 million at the end of the
year. This was driven by capital reorganization in connection with our IPO and spin off, partially
offset by the strong free cash flow generation as well as the dividend payments related to our
minority shareholders in China.
The positive free cash flow generation was primarily attributable to strong operating
performance of €748 million and a net decrease in the financial receivables portfolio of €121
million, partially offset by taxes paid, negative working capital performance of €39 million mainly
attributable to increasing payables primarily driven by full production of LaFerrari in 2014 while at
the end of 2015 the product life cycle was nearing completion and shipments are planned to be
completed in Q1 2016, partially offset by collection of intercompany and related party receivables.
CapEx was €317 million driven primarily by investments to sustain our product offerings net of
onetime cash inflow from the sale of investment properties.
On page nine we have provided a detail of the net debt analysis made of the followingNote; the completion of the credit agreement that took place in November with a third-party
bank comprised of €1.5 billion mid long term facility and a €0.5 billion bridge short-term facility;
the finalization of the $100 million credit line from a third-party bank to fund a portion of our
Financial Services portfolio in the U.S. And the repayment of the FCA Note which took place at the
end of December and the settlement of (15:07) for €411 million. Dividend payment related to our
minority shareholders in China and the acquisition of the NCI, offset by free cash flow generation
of €390 million and other minor effects
On page 10 we are providing the detail of our debt maturity schedule which is shown as a result
of the credit agreement and the refinancing transaction which was finalized at the end of the year
plus the new credit agreement facilities that were finalized in the U.S. for the Financial Services
portfolio.
On page 11, we have provided the details of our guidance. We are providing the outlook of
shipment including limited edition supercars will reach approximately 7,900 units. This will support
net revenues in excess of €2.9 billion assuming FX at current market condition. Adjusted EBITDA
is expected to be above €770 million, and net debt is expected to be lower than €1.95 billion
excluding the self-liquidating financial receivables portfolio, €750 million, which includes the
distribution to our shareholders subject to the approval of the 2015 annual accounts and the
review of the other relative financial statements by the board of directors.
On page 12 till the end of the deck we are providing an overview of the main activities that were
done in 2015. Page 12 has the overview of the launches of our vehicles. Just to summarize, 488
GTB, 488 Spider, and F12tdf. On page 13, we are providing the summary of 2015 results in
Formula 1 and obviously we are waiting and looking forward for the March 18 starting of the new
season for some excitement for this year. On page 14, we are providing all the client relation
activities which are relevant for 2015 that has been completed and included in our performance in
our report of client relation activities.
Page 15 is providing the overview of the brand and our store presence. We are operating now
with that 12 directly operated with more than 23 in franchising and only we had a plan to support
the growth from this perspective. And page 16 is providing the overview of the corporate
structure as a result of the IPO and the spin-off which took place at the beginning of the year with
the listing in the Milan Stock Exchange in January of this year.
And for that, I hand over to Mr. Marchionne for any closing remarks.
`Sergio Marchionne, Chairman `
I have nothing. We'll take questions.
`Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations `
Before we start with the Q&A session, please let me remind you that we are a one segment
company, plus in other activities and ancillary to support the car business, for example, Formula 1
is our marketing tool and therefore we don't have advertising cost in our P&L. Hence, profitability
is provided at group level as we don't have business units or segments.
With that, I'm going to turn it back to the operator and we'll begin the Q&A session.
Q&A
OperatorThank you. We will now take our first question from John Murphy from Bank of America. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Good morning and good afternoon, everybody. Just a first question if maybe, Alessandro, we
could go to appendix 21. I'm just curious if you can give us the adjustments for the profit before
taxes, the tax rate, and the net income; because I think people are a little bit confused. The
adjusted EBIT and adjusted EBITDA were very strong relative to expectations, but I think there
are some confusion about what the adjusted net income is for the €24 million that you're
incurring for the IPO process?
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
Actually, we don't have an adjusted net income that's net income as it is, so there are no
adjustments for that, while adjusted EBIT and adjusted EBITDA are reflecting the items related to
the IPO and spin-off cost that we obviously had in 2015 as onetime cost as well as the
extraordinary payments for our employees, €5,000 per head count that I mentioned before, as
well as the partial offset for the gain that we had in connection with the sale of the investment
properties. So, all these amounts combined sum up to €29 million for 2015, but we are not
adjusting our net income, so that is the pure earned income of the company
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
But those costs, they presumably are onetime are included or expensed, I guess, in this income
statement. So, they are not backed out for the net income is what you're saying?
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
They are not, that's why I say that the pure net income including those costs. And our tax rate is,
at the end of 2015, 33%. There is a slight increase compared to last year which is primarily driven
by the fact that we have reflected the change in the future tax rate from the Italian perspective
which is impacting the net DTA and DTL of the year. So there's a onetime of a 1% negative
contributing to the net income of the year.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. If we wanted to back those numbers out, that would be the €24 million that you're
adjusting for on the adjusted EBIT, right, would go to the pre-tax profit and then will be applied –
the same tax rate would be applied, correct?
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. So the EPS looks like it's more like €0.36 as opposed to €0.28 rolling back those numbers
out. Does that sound about right?
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, if you were to back out €29 million, the adjusted income would be €319 million. So you're
recalculating that. You can do the math but I believe it's correct.Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. So, it's about that right, okay. And also if you look at page eight, and look to €390 million of
free cash flow. If we took out the onetime items – I apologized I didn't follow that on page eight,
what were the onetime positives and negatives, what do they amount to, if we look at the free
cash flow?
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
The free cash flow is basically all positive amounts related to the onetime that as I mentioned. So,
the sale of investment properties, the reimbursement of the Maserati loans and the sales of the
total financial receivables portfolio. The one negative item is the extraordinary payout for the
personnel that we did in December.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
So, the total of those would be of the positive and negative onetime free cash flow numbers?
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
I'm sorry. I missed – what was the target?
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
You want to know how much the amount are in total?
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Yeah. Yeah. We just want to understand the ongoing free cash flow power as we're modeling this
forward so we know what we're walking off of in 2015?
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
Excluding onetime, it's close to €100 million.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Got it. Okay. Thank you. And then just secondly as we think about sort of the ongoing product
launches rolloff, how much of the LaFerrari is left to be delivered and recognized in 2016? And if
we think about that relative to the F12tdf ramp, how much of the 799 of F12tdfs are going to be
delivered in 2016 according to your plan?
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
So, we're not delivering all of them in 2016 and the effect of the F12tdf is substantially offsetting
also the negative effect that would come out of the LaFerrari.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
So you're basically in your forecast assuming that the LaFerrari and the F12tdf will be a relative
neutral on mix?A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Correct.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. And then as we think about the engine business and the Levante launch, at what point in
2016 will the Levante launch and presumably the engines that go along with that product really hit
and help the engine business?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman `
Second half of 2016.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. And then just lastly, on FX, you have nothing assumed for your guidance for 2016. It's
basically at currently spots with no benefit from hedging or any shifts that would happen in the
market.
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
There's a partial rolloff. I think we said a certain number of times during the road show which is
coming to 2016 in the second half of the year. The prior policy (24:00) is expected to roll off
completely by the first half.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay, great. Thank you very much.
Operator
We will now take our next question from Ryan Brinkman from JPMorgan. Please go ahead. Your
line is open.
Q - `Ryan J. Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Great. Thanks for taking my question. First one is really just on the R&D assumptions. If you can
provide that color that are embedded in the 2016 guidance and then more generally, if you could
comment on how the larger project is going to moderate R&D over the medium term.
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
Total R&D in terms of the capital expenditure throughout the products combined and obviously
Touring, it's going close to €360 million in total for CapEx. Over these you need to add a total
amount in terms of expanding into and also the impact on the P&L which is primarily driven by
R&D innovation which is an expense lot over the R&D for the racing activity which is going to be
lower than what we had in 2015.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman `
And just as a broad statement on the takedown of CapEx. There is significant work that's been
going on at Formula 1 level now to try and really restrain the spending on racing activity at least
for the duration of the Concorde Agreement through 2020. And I think a lot of this has to do with
the plans or the efforts that have been made in the last six months on (25:31) of the Far East. Andthere is additional work down that's going on to make sure that the revision for 2017 rule doesn't
effectively solve the distortion in the R&D profile of racing.
So I feel relatively comfortable with 2016 is in line (25:49) the regular amount of money in 2015 to
get ready for the 2016 season. I think we're going to see these numbers on the Formula 1 side
come down relatively quickly once 2017 is nailed down as being sort of a definite structure to run
Formula 1 'til 2020.
I think both Alessandro and I have been relatively fair on the CapEx so far. And going forward, I
think most of the large investments that we've made in terms of the architectural, or partnering
choices that we've made here, so we expect these numbers to taper down as we walk our way
to through 2018 and 2019 until the next cycle starts.
Q - `Ryan J. Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Great, helpful. Thank you. And then just last question it sounded like an answer to one of John's
questions that you are guiding mix to be roughly a push next year. Can you just talk about the
other drivers; firstly, if that's correct, but also the other drivers and the walk from adjusted EBITDA
€748 million in 2015 to €770 million in 2016. Any sort of directional color about volume or currency
hedges. You provided some color on R&D just now, but some of the other components of the
bridge, please. Thank you.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman `
To begin with, there's 200 more cars 2015 to 2016, that's a great contribution to that. Go ahead.
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
So the mix side, I think we covered that; volume is going to be right around as Mr. Marchionne just
mentioned and the other one element as we said is the effect contributions in the second half of
the year. And then we will still have lower – slightly, sorry, amount of SG&A as a result of keep on
focusing on our direct stores, solid activity for the brand side. So those are the main drivers for
the...
Q - `Ryan J. Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Great. Thanks for the color.
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
...and D&A is slightly lower than in 2015, again as a result of just of the natural life cycle of our
products.
Q - `Ryan J. Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Thank you.
Operator
We will now take our next question from `Richard Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar Research from Morningstar. Please go ahead. Your
line is open.
Q - `Richard Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar Research `Thank you. Good morning and good afternoon. Appreciate you taking my questions. Just looking
at the individual country changes in volume, China being down a little more than 9%, I guess,
almost 10%. Given the environment over in that market, and it seemed like that environment was
something that was all throughout 2015. Does it make sense to think of China directionally as
having reached a trough and that 2016 we should see maybe some slight improvement in volume
from that region?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman `
No. I think the most intelligent view of China is to hold volumes of €50 million.
Q - `Richard Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar Research `
Okay. So unchanged for 2016 versus 2015?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman `
(29:09)
Q - `Richard Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar Research `
Okay. And did I hear correctly. I'm sorry. I'm having some difficulty hearing the call, 23% effective
tax rate for 2015 full year?
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
33%.
Q - `Richard Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar Research `
33%. Okay. All right. Very good. And was curious, just taking a look at the guidance next year
versus this year, maybe implying a slight increase in volume from one year to the next, but I'm
trying to square that with the longer term target of 9,000 vehicles shipped in 2019. If I'm looking
at a ramp, it seems like the shipments might be a little bit off of what I might have expected in
order to eventually get to that 9,000 if we're expecting somewhat of an even ramp. Can you talk
a little bit about how you get from here to the 9,000 and where that ramp goes? Is it more of an
increase later on or is it in the middle? Where does the change happen year-over-year in the
shipments?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman `
Look, we said 9,000 cars is what we consider to be the natural limit of the volume ambition for
Ferrari. The lumpiness of the increase is not an issue from a production side inside Ferrari. There's
a limited number of cars that we make. We have stated publicly that we will never build a car in
excess of what market demand, and so the modulation of that increase is based on market
penetration and the model rollout. We have not talked specifically about which models get
launched in what year and I think you're just going to have to bear with us as we roll out the
product portfolio between now and 2019 to justify the volume of 9,000. I can't tell you an end.
Q - `Richard Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar Research `
Okay. Thank you very much.
OperatorWe will now take our next question from Stuart Pearson from BNP Paribas. Please go ahead. Your
line is open.
Q - `Stuart P. Pearson, Analyst, Exane Ltd. `
Yeah. Good morning, guys. Just a couple of questions. Firstly just to clarify on the net debt
position of the guidance. I think FCA equates to a number I think of €963 million for your net
industrial debt, if you like, or ex the finance receivables. Wondering if you could confirm that
number and that compares to the €750 million or below €750 million you're guiding for because I
guess that implies roughly €300 million of free cash flow you're guiding for this year. I just wanted
to check that number?
And the second question was just really coming back to this margin, because maybe just slight
disagreeing with the initial question. I would have thought the 14.7% margin in Q4 was quite a
disappointment in a way given where we were in Q3, around 500 basis point sequential
contraction. Now I know there's some seasonality, some worker payments. So wonder if you just
talk about the differences there, the drivers there, especially with respect to personalization. I
understand that may have been a weaker in Q4. So just how do you expect that to trend in 2016
and why? Thank you.
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
Certainly. We recorded net debt, as we said in the press release that we issued in connections
with preliminary result on a consolidated basis, there is a difference in definition of the net debt
and the net industrial debt, so the difference that you're looking for is just a difference in
definition. We are considering our net debt as for our definition, it's just a simple difference
between our cash position and our net debt position which is made of all the credit agreements
that we finalized (33:07) to fund the Financial Services company. So, if we take that out, so we
take out a self-liquidating portfolio, we have the €800 million. And that is consistent with the
number we provided during the IPO and consistent with the number in Q3.
Q - `Stuart P. Pearson, Analyst, Exane Ltd. `
Sorry, I missed the number. If you take out the self-liquidating receivables, the number would be,
so the €1.938 billion would be – just to compare to your €750 million guidance.
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
€797 million for 2015 actual and €754 million for 2016 guidance.
Q - `Stuart P. Pearson, Analyst, Exane Ltd. `
€797 million?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman `
Yeah, we just – listen, we've just been getting feedback from the market about the fact that the
market is understanding the total cash €1.9 billion, the net industrial debt position of this house is
under €800 million.
Q - `Stuart P. Pearson, Analyst, Exane Ltd. `
€800 million.A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman `
Nobody would ever show numbers of €1.9 billion under normal circumstances. We don't
segregate Financial Services from the rest of operations which causes the aggregation numbers.
The difference between the €790 million number that Alessandro made reference to on the total
debt is the self-liquidating position. It will pay itself off.
Q - `Stuart P. Pearson, Analyst, Exane Ltd. `
I understand the difference but then that implies that after the dividend you're only guiding for
€140 million or something of free cash flow this year then, is that the same?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman `
For 2016, we've put the upper limit of debt at €750 million.
Q - `Stuart P. Pearson, Analyst, Exane Ltd. `
Okay. Okay, thank you.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman `
Which include the dividend of €87 million for the year or a distribution of €87 million which is what
we've declared.
Q - `Stuart P. Pearson, Analyst, Exane Ltd. `
Okay. Okay then the question, sorry, on the margin and the personalization? Thank you.
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
So, I think your question was on Q4. We have explained the part of the recent seasonality and
way we have our expenses, in particular for R&D. So I think we need to prepare for the new
season. We had a higher spend on R&D in Q4 and typically in Q1 in order to prepare for the
season. That's why the Q4 numbers are lower than the Q3 numbers which were somehow
exceptional. So, in terms of how 2016 is going to perform, obviously we had a negative
contribution for the phase-out of LaFerrari which is still of the partially in Q1 of the year but then
will roll off.
And as I mentioned before in terms of mix, that is going to be offset by the F12tdf, which is
basically going to be distributed through all the different quarters of the year. But we have the
first half different from the second half also due to FX which I mentioned. So, that providing a
different geography to our financial results during 2016, so you will see the FX positive
contribution coming in the second half of the year.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman `
By the way, just to go back in Q3 and trying to compare Q3 to Q4, we were crystal clear on the
road show and every call that we've made in connection with the IPO that Q3 was an unusual
operating performance quarter and that we will not be repeating in Q4. As we said, 2015 is the
highest operating margin that this house has ever achieved.
Q - `Stuart P. Pearson, Analyst, Exane Ltd. `Operator
We will take our next question from `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA from Equita. Please go ahead. Your line
is open.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `
Thank you. Good afternoon, good morning, everybody. Actually from Equita. My first question is
on the guidance for the current year. I am sorry, but the line was not particularly good. I was
wondering if you could recap the CapEx for the current year and D&A, and also if for the current
year we should expect positive impact on tax rate because of the Patent Box under the fiscal
system in Italy?
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
Total CapEx for the year is expected to be lower than €350 million. And the Patent Box that you
mentioned in tax rate and still something that we haven't reflected and is not going to provide a
relevant amount until it is accepted and until that we know how much is the contribution and it's
subject to approval of a strategic ruling that has not been finalized yet. And so we asked for the
ruling, but we need to carry it. And the amount, the total amount which is going to be distributed
to the companies, for all the companies that are operating in Italy under the Patent Box regime,
so it's not a fixed amount that we can define at the moment. It's going to be more relevant if we
actually get it in 2017 on.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `
Okay. And the second is on the adjusted EBITDA guidance above €770 million. Based on the note
I have, my estimates basically it is generated by the ForEx effect for the current year. And by the
way consensus is above €800 million. So, just understand if you could elaborate on the real
potential for the EBITDA margin for the current year or on the other side what are the negative
items offsetting the positive ones?
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
I think the EBITDA is often in line with what we had highlighted in the past in terms of progressive
performance. The volumes are growing as you've seen from our preliminary numbers to the
7,900 units. So, that's a positive contribution in terms of volumes and mix. It is going to be very
lightly negative. I think that is going to be totally offsetting the phase out of LaFerrari. So, you
need to consider that LaFerrari contribution was I think relevant both for 2015 and 2014. So, we
are substantially offsetting all the factors of LaFerrari and our guidance is higher than the 2015
results and the 2015 adjusted EBITDA which will be the highest one achieved by the company, so
really in line with our expectations. It's totally in line with our plans.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `
Okay. And very last, the net debt guidance. Could you remind us what is the impact of non-
recurring items for this year?
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
None apart from as we said the distribution to the shareholders which is included in the guidance
and is expected to be approved by the board as regard to the review of the financial statements
of 2015. That is the €87 million which we have in our press release today.Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `
Yeah. Okay, so nothing else. Okay. Thank you.
Operator
We will now take our next question from Neel Mehta from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead. Your
line is open.
Q - `Neel N. Mehta, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Thanks and good afternoon. Just a couple of questions from my end. First, I know that greater
personalization has been highlighted as an opportunity to expand margins maybe a long-term
opportunity but could you elaborate more on that and maybe give us color or just the order of
magnitude on the margins that are associated with cars which have been customized through
maybe your tailor-made or special equipment programs?
And then my second question just on spare parts, could you give us a sense of how much of the
revenue is spare parts within the car and spare parts segment, and any color on margins within
that category and the type of growth you've seen over the last few years specifically relating to
spare parts? Thank you.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman `
By the way, I'm amazed you're asking questions about spare parts, there is not anybody who
makes a deal for anywhere in the world (41:18) spare parts, not one. But I'll give you a benign
answer. It is by definition one of the most profitable part for the business. But unfortunately, the
only way you can make money in spare parts is by making the car. If you don't make the car, there
is no spare parts attached to the vehicle itself but it is a significant profit contributor. In the case of
Ferrari, when you compare it to the less – those people that make vehicles, they probably are
trading the less relevant part rather than relevant, because there is substantial margins that we
can generate and meet ourselves.
The question about personalization and we cannot give you numbers on the margin, but it is
substantially higher, if you move up the personalization curve. So when we got the tailor-made,
those margins are significantly higher than a standard car, but there are varying degree, to the
extent that and I think we'll be relatively successful in pushing the personalization option where
our customers you will see margin increase from there but I can't give you numbers.
Q - `Neel N. Mehta, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
All right. Thank you.
Operator
We will now take our next question from `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA from Kepler Cheuvreux. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA `
Thank you very much. I have a few questions as well, please Could you help us understand where
growth is going to come from in your opinion in 2016 as we understand it's not from China?
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `Can you please repeat the question, because we didn't hear very well?
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA `
Sorry, I'm not sure I understood what you said.
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
If you can please repeat the question because we didn't get it.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA `
Okay, sorry for that. Could you please help us understand where volume growth will come from in
2016 please as it's not going to come from China?
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
So, the growth will primarily come from – they will be coming from the Americas, obviously, U.S. is
the main contributor there, and EMEA, which is – obviously, those are the two largest regions. I
think we've covered also in the past that China in general is less than 5% of our total shipments.
So, as Mr. Marchionne mentioned before, that's going to be expected to be stable. So it's still not
going to be the relevant market in terms of growth. And it's something – it's never been also
when we described our strategy during the IPO. So the two main contributors are the Americas,
with the U.S. and EMEA.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA `
Very clear. Can you give us the number of tdf that have been shipped in 2015 and also the
number of LaFerrari that have been shipped in 2015, please?
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
On LaFerrari, we are not providing the numbers, but as we said in the past, 2015 was slightly
higher than 2014 and we have a small base in Q1 this year. tdf was really at the very beginning
sold a few units. It's not relevant for 2015 at all.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman `
By the way, just for your information, if you're trying to work the numbers off, LaFerrari was a
limited edition car and we sold 500 of these cars – 499. Yet they're evenly spread between 2014
and 2015, at about 250 a year. Even if there was a
calendar adjustment one way or the other, it's not materially – of that number.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA `
Great. Thanks. Lastly, two small questions, can you explain the dividend policy please from here?
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
Sorry, but we couldn't hear again the question.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA `
Sorry. Can you comment on the dividend policy of Ferrari, please?A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman `
25% to 40% of net.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA `
Okay. Thank you. Last question, at what date do you expect to publish the full accounts, please?
A - `Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations `
I'm sorry again the line isn't clear, could you kindly repeat?
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA `
Sure. When, what date should we get the full accounts for Ferrari, please?
A - `Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations `
I'm sorry. Can you kindly speak closer to the microphone? Thank you.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA `
Yes. I'm right on the microphone. I'm sorry if the line is bad. Could you please tell us when you will
release the accounts of the company, the full accounts of the company, please?
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
Full accounts, sorry. So the approval is expected to come from the Board of Directors later in
February. So, close to the end of February and that is when we will be publishing our annual report
which is required for under Dutch requirement.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA `
Thank you very much.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman `
You're welcome.
Operator
We will now take our next question from Stephen Reitman from Société Générale. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Stephen M. Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (Broker) `
Yes. Good afternoon. Thank you. Could you tell me if you have any more clarity on negotiations
with the relevant authorities on the CO2 target. So, you will be meeting for in the relevant
regions, the Europe and the United States for 2020 and 2021?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman `
No. We do not have any additional information to give you other than obviously to comment that
the discussions are ongoing. I don't expect to have any seismic reaction from those discussions. I
think we understand from a product portfolio it has to happen. I do think that ultimately theQ - `Stephen M. Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (Broker) `
And can you give me your average CO2 score across your fleet in 2015?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman `
To be perfectly honest, I don't know. And obviously it depends on jurisdiction. The emission
control system vary by area.
Q - `Stephen M. Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (Broker) `
Is it roughly, a figure I have in mind for 2014 is about 270 grams, does that sound reasonably in
the ballpark?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman `
It does not sound unreasonable but you and I are not (47:50) I don't have an absolute (47:51)
information to give you but it doesn't sound unreasonable given what I know.
Q - `Stephen M. Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (Broker) `
Thank you.
Operator
We will now take our next question from `Michael Binetti, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC from UBS. Please go ahead. Your line is
open.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Hey, guys, good afternoon. I want to back up a little bit. Everybody has asked quite a bit about
some of the details here, but if we just try to connect the story for 2016 to some of the longer
range thinking that you guys talked about during the IPO. The revenue guidance for 2016 will put
you right at what we thought was about the top of where the guidance was initially going to be
for revenues for 2017. But as I look at the incremental margins next year, they're going to be a
little bit lower here. And I know you tried to give a little bit of color around the walk on EBITDA
margins, but if the unit targets are kind of what they are, but the revenues are maybe running a
little bit ahead of what you thought the original 2017 plan.
A lot of the story was some of the cost items starting to lever in 2016. It sounds like maybe some
of those might have shifted out to 2017. I know, Sergio, when we were talking to the road show
process you thought maybe some of the Formula 1 cost reductions. It seemed to me like some of
the Formula 1 cost reductions that you were talking about were going to occurring more in 2016. It
sounds like some of those will now move to 2017. Maybe just some directional guidance on each
of the lines in the P&L to help us connect what you're saying about 2016 to what we're originally
thinking about 2017?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman `
Well, the best answer I can give you on 2016 is that the number that I understand that was put in
the (49:22) guidance was greater than the number that we posted. And I think that there is a view
out there that we have never – we have historically not missed numbers. I think the numbers that
we're giving will measure against actual performance as we go forward.I confirm everything that I've told you on the road show but there is (49:43) and the fact that this
house will be presently gearing up and getting ready to leverage off the investment that's made
in the architecture. The cars are falling off. We'll see the launch of a new car, with at least three
cars that are coming off the portfolio on a yearly basis. Just let us go out there and produce the
numbers on a quarterly basis.
It was indicated clearly in guidance that these were the lowest number of a possible set of
ranges of outcome. I think it will be better than what we've indicated but that's what it is. And
taking you through the P&L, just trying to disprove that is going to be unhelpful to you or to me,
right.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Okay. And then could you comment on – there's obviously probably more than our fair share of
turmoil around the world right now in volatility in some of the different market. Would you mind
commenting on what you're seeing related to the wait list for the product in some of the
different regions given what we're seeing with the Chinese economy, the U.S. stock market
volatility and then, obviously, some of the oil markets are under pressure that are important
markets for you as well?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman `
I mean for me to try and make sense of the reaction of equity markets of what's going on is an
impossible task. I don't understand it and I don't understand the reaction of Ferrari's share price
that we are announcing we had the best earnings in our history and the stock around it. But we
are not seeing in terms of customer interface any impact from what we're discussing here in
terms of volume or expectations or the order book. We have not seen cancellations. The order
book continues to be as strong as ever. You understand we make less than 8,000 cars a year.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Sure.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman `
So, the ability to place them through the distribution network is not an issue. And we remain
conscious of the fact that obviously we are dealing with an incredibly affluent customer base. That
customer base today is based on what we know today is not suffering from the events that you
described.
Having said this, I think China has never been a significant portion of our portfolio nor do we
expect it to be a significant portion of our portfolio in 2016.. The rest of the world is actually doing
well, notwithstanding what capital market followers are saying, we're okay. You've seen numbers
from Ferrari sister company this morning, I mean it's 17 months of uninterrupted sales growth. The
market is actually doing a lot better than people are assuming. So it's all right.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Okay. And if I could just add one last question. Alessandro, as far as personalization, I think you
talked about that being about 15% lift to the average prices for the vehicles. Where does that –
what percent did that end at in 2015 and what's your thoughts baked in to the 2016 outlook?
Thank you.We covered that before, it's 16% in the actual in 2015. So, we are expecting to be in line in 2016.
We will get the benefit of high volumes.
A - `Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations `
We can move to the next question. Thank you.
Operator
We will now take our next question from `George Galliers, Analyst, Evercore ISI from Evercore, please go ahead, your
line is open.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Hello and thank you for taking my questions. First question, I know you don't comment on future
products but, conceptually, given a significant number of upcoming products from peers in the
crossover space, would you ever consider a crossover for Ferrari? And is the FF platform and
drive train something which could be adapted for crossover at some point in the future if you did
decide to take that path?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman `
The answer to your second question is yes and the answer to your first question is that you'd
have to shoot me first.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Okay. Thank you. And then, secondly, and apologies if you've already visited this but the line
wasn't perfect, just coming back to FX and the change in which you hedge very simply given what
you have hedged in today's spot for the unhedged part, do you expect FX to be a similar tailwind
in 2016 to the €45 million last year, or to be a greater or smaller tailwind?
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
So yes, you expect it to be a greater tailwind, is that correct?
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
Correct that it is in line with 2015.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Okay. Very clear. Thanks.
Operator
We will now take our next question from `Alexis Albert, Analyst, Barclays Capital SAS from Barclays. Please go ahead. Your line is
open.
Q - `Alexis Albert, Analyst, Barclays Capital SAS `Hi, good afternoon. Thank you for taking my questions. Two questions. The first one is regarding
the order intake. I know you don't communicate on the wait list and the order intake but
considering the lack of visibility in the automotive sector, it'd be great to have an idea of when we
talk about order intake at Ferrari, are we talking about six months, are we talking about 18
months? It'd be great if you could give us some color on that. This is my first question. Second
question is regarding the financing, what would you say is the share of Ferrari being financed?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman `
The answer to your first question is in between the two numbers that you've raised.
Q - `Alexis Albert, Analyst, Barclays Capital SAS `
Okay. Great. Thank you. That's useful. And regarding financing?
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
Regarding financing on the new car sizes, one the new vehicles, we have penetration rate of 33%
on average.
Q - `Alexis Albert, Analyst, Barclays Capital SAS `
Okay. So, 33% is the Ferraris being financed by yourself right?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman `
No. That's the financing that we are, sorry, the financing from our Financial Service company. 33%
of a new car.
Q - `Alexis Albert, Analyst, Barclays Capital SAS `
Okay, including all sorts of financing?
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
We just do retail financing basically. We don't....
Q - `Alexis Albert, Analyst, Barclays Capital SAS `
Oh, just that you take financing off. Okay, but do you have assumptions internally of is this 33%
for you, what is its total?
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
The financing coming from the dealers in general is not a number that we know exactly. So we
know how much we are financing directly.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman `
It's one out of three cars.
Q - `Alexis Albert, Analyst, Barclays Capital SAS `
Okay. Thank you.
OperatorWe will now take our next question from `Lello della Ragione, Analyst, Intermonte Sim SpA from Intermonte. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Lello della Ragione, Analyst, Intermonte Sim SpA `
Hi, thank you for taking my question probably you answered before but the line is terrible here,
it's about personalization, you gave the number for 2015 during the presentation but wasn't clear
from here. And can you repeat what's your target for 2016 and how should we see the
personalization in terms of percentage moving forward, the evolution of it even beyond 2016?
Thank you.
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
I'm sorry but can you just repeat...
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman `
On personalization.
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
The personalization, we covered that before. So, 15% was the actual that we had in terms of
contribution on top line in 2014. 2015 was 16% and we are expecting the same level in 2016. Plus,
as I mentioned, the additional fact that we will have higher volumes in 2016.
Q - `Lello della Ragione, Analyst, Intermonte Sim SpA `
Okay 50% on top of the average selling price, right?
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
One-six, so 16%.
Q - `Lello della Ragione, Analyst, Intermonte Sim SpA `
Okay, one-six, on top of the average selling price, okay. And can you just probably you answered
even to this one, but the line is terrible. Can you please give us an indication of what should we
expect on gross margin level for 2016 with the costs that you have up there in terms of raw
material and employees? Thank you.
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
So we are expecting always to keep on realizing efficiencies on our direct materials in line with
what we had in 2015.
Q - `Lello della Ragione, Analyst, Intermonte Sim SpA `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
There are no further questions at this time. I would like to turn the call back to your host for any
additional or closing remarks.
A - `Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations `Hello. Thanks, everyone, for attending today's call. Thank you. Bye.
Operator
That will conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation, ladies and gentlemen.
You may now disconnect.