Q4 2016 Earnings Call

Operator
Certainly. `Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me. We are now going to take the first question. It comes from `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Banca IMI of
Banca IMI. Please go ahead, ma'am.
Q - `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Banca IMI `
Yeah, thanks. Good morning and good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for taking my question. The
first one is on CapEx. Could you please give us any rough indications of the expected CapEx for
the current `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services?
And the second question is on the patent box. Have you any idea of the potential impact of the
patent box for Ferrari? The third and last question, maybe it's not the last but I'll try. What kind of
growth can we project for the sponsorship and `commercial, engines to Maserati and other Formula 1 teams, as well as brand and other brand, because I was expecting a
lower increase and now it's time also to deliver or decide – I'm asking what could be the strategy
to extend these revenue line? `Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me very much.
A - `Alessandro Gili, the Group's Chief Financial Officer. At the end of the presentation, they will be `
Okay. Monica, Alessandro speaking. So for your CapEx question, I think we mentioned it will be in
line with the most recent historical trend, so north of €350 `million, and taxes, which included full `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services 2015 tax balance and 2016 tax advance payments., €360 `million, and taxes, which included full `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services 2015 tax balance and 2016 tax advance payments. for this `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services. It
could be higher depending on the R&D for hybridization timing, but obviously we will start
spending on that side in order to turn our portfolio into a hybrid portfolio as soon as we can.
On the patent box side, we really cannot disclose any number for the moment since obviously we
have applied for the possibility with the ruling to get the benefit from the patent box. We are in
line with that, but we don't know the amount yet. And that really depends on the process and the
details that we will provide and the tax administration will go forward as we get into the process,
and growth from sponsorship and `commercial, engines to Maserati and other Formula 1 teams, as well as brand and other which was your last question, so I think we will try
to get as much as we can from that line. Obviously, you need to consider that there is a change
from 2016 and that is taken into consideration in our guidance. And I think you've seen the
improvement in 2016 in the actuals already.
Q - `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Banca IMI `Okay. `Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me very much. Just as a follow-up, so if I understand this correctly, in terms of net
debt, if you assume a CapEx being in the region of €350 `million, and taxes, which included full `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services 2015 tax balance and 2016 tax advance payments., €360 `million, and taxes, which included full `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services 2015 tax balance and 2016 tax advance payments., but the
assumption behind the net debt is mainly due to the lack of advances, is it right? And partially due
to the higher, a little bit higher CapEx spend the markets, can say, is expecting. Is it right?
A - `Alessandro Gili, the Group's Chief Financial Officer. At the end of the presentation, they will be `
Yeah. I think it's a combination of three things, higher CapEx, the lack of advances, as we said in
the drivers that we provided, as well as the taxes on 2017 because always you need to
incorporate a higher PBT basis, as well the fact that tax advances will still be paid based on the
corporate tax rate that we had in 2016. Unfortunately, that's the way it works so we will have to
pay taxes based on that amount. So the combination of the three elements drives the guidance
that we provided for net industrial debt.
Q - `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Banca IMI `
Okay. `Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me very much. Just last follow-up. Mr. Marchionne, you told before that Ferrari has a
huge amount of unexplored territory in terms of a number of cars and products. Can you please
give us some example in terms of product or customer segment that Ferrari can explore? And is
it still too early to ask for the waiting lists for the GTC4Lusso?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Let me give you the short answer. The GTC4 is pretty well sold out for 2017. So I wouldn't – I'm
not sure. Well, you can probably get one within 2017 somewhere but I think most of it is gone.
Just to go back to the question, one of the things that we have not done in this house is that we
have never talked about a car, and we have never described it until we can actually reveal it to our
customers or to the markets. And as a matter of fact, today and for the next few days we have
within our facilities here a group of our select customers who are taking a look at a car that we will
be unveiling in Geneva at the car show. And this is the tradition of the house. It's a tradition that I
do not want to break.
But just a couple of broad comments about what is supporting my view now about the product
portfolio, if you look at the development of the GT section of Ferrari over the last probably
decade, we have broken down our world into 8- and 12-cylinder versions we have been very
disciplined in terms of keeping these two worlds apart. We have defined things such as the
sports car being the 8-cylinder family through the 488 and the F12 world on the 12-cylinder side.
And then we've developed ancillaries to this to the California and the GTC4 apposition. Those
were arbitrary distinctions, which I think have probably done a huge amount of injustice about the
capability of the brand to be declined across a variety of applications that reflect particular
customer tastes. And I think that we need to explore the full width of the customer requirement,
and really cater to these needs in a particular way.
And there are – I think there are opportunities that we're now exploring in terms of launching
products that can be sold side by side with the traditional lineup of cars that we have today, that
would effectively round out the offering of Ferrari and not be offensive in terms of contravening
some historical routes, one of which is the fact that we have never produced an SUV in our life.
And so we keep on getting phenomenal pressure, pressures from the outside about doing one,
because everybody knows that if Ferrari did an SUV it could sell it. That may be probably true. I
struggle with trying to picture a car that can be sold by Ferrari that does not have the driving
dynamics of one of our passenger cars. So I'm – it is – we have to be sufficiently disciplined not to
bastardize the brand and take it to places that it's never been, and where the DNA getsSo having said this, there is still a phenomenal amount of space that's left over for us to try and
compliment the range and produce additional car off existing investments and architectures
without effectively reinventing the wheel and yet producing a car that's sufficiently different to the
customers, to be able to attract a different clientele. So leave it with us. You will see this unfold
over the next two or three `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Servicess, and I think this is what makes me a lot more comfortable about
the financial capability of this house because we understand it from an operating leverage
standpoint that this is a single largest opportunity that we have to deliver earnings and cash. It's
from the expansion of the existing operating base and effectively flexing out the portfolio to its
maximum potential without disrupting the DNA of the brand. And I think we're getting better at
this. I think we need more time. You'll see evidence of this, I think, as we work our way through
2017 and 2018.
Q - `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Banca IMI `
Okay. `Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me very much. `Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me.
Operator
`Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me. We'll now move to our next question, which comes from John Murphy of BoA.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Good afternoon to you. I've got a follow-up on this statement, in that last statement you just
made on where you might go with form factors. I mean it can be three angles. First, it sounds like
you're seriously considering a crossover or SUV. Second, is this how you get to a level above
10,000 units some time down the line? And third, as you're doing this, do you consider capacity
adds, or could this be executed through your existing facility?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Let me answer in order of ease. The existing facility can make everything that we need to make
the numbers that we talked about. You're not far off in terms of 10,000 objective of potential
expansion of the product range. And I fundamentally disagree that it needs to be done through
an SUV. That's the thing that I struggle with. I don't know what an SUV with the Ferrari driving
dynamics will look like. And maybe it's ignorance on my part that I need to be shown. But I find it
very, very difficult to try and get track performance out of an SUV, Ferrari style.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
I 150% agree with you. I mean, that's why I was asking. Okay. Second question, you mentioned
that you pushed pricing a little bit this `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services, or 2016, but there was opportunity to potentially push
it materially more. What does that mean you executed on in 2016? And what do you think you
really can do going forward?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
And without telling you what I touched in 2016 before I make customers nervous, I did intervene
and we did it by jurisdiction as we were launching model `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Servicess. The more important thing for us is
that when we launch new vehicles now, and one will be launched in Geneva, is that we reflect that
stance right at the beginning of a launch process and don't go back in and correct it later on. So
the car that you'll see in Geneva will reflect this pricing view.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `Okay. And then just last – I'm sorry.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
We shouldn't be making a lot of noise about it. I think we should just do it, right, as a matter of
practice.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
I agree. Okay. And then just lastly, was there any change in the order book that you saw in the U.S.
post-election in the U.S., either positively or negatively? I mean, I guess you could certainly argue
that there might be a lot of folks that are at the high end of the income spectrum that might have
a lot more money if these tax cuts go through. So I was just curious if you're seeing any bump or
would expect any going forward?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
I think we have seen a strengthening of the order book in general. And December was a weird
month because we cleaned up distribution – I mean we had an order book on the 488 that could
have choked a horse. And so we forced the distribution channel to cancel anything that we could
not deliver in 2017. And so we cleaned it up. It's very different to read the month of December
because we forced the dealer network to clean it up. But the feedback that we're getting, and
not just through Ferrari, we have also noticed it from Maserati and the rest of the premium car
brands I'm connected with, the market is quite strong. And so there's been no disruption, nor do I
see that interest waning in 2017. I think we're going to see a strengthening of the commitment to
the brands.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great. `Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me very much.
Operator
`Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me. We'll now move to our next question, which comes from `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA of
Equita. Please go ahead.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `
Yeah. Good afternoon, everybody. The first question is on forex effect, because last `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services was
positive and should be positive also in the current `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services. So I was wondering what's the underlying
assumption for forex for this `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services. And the second question connected to the first one regards
the guidance you gave at the time of the IPO of €1 billion EBITDA target in 2019. So you are very
close this `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services, so I understand forex had a better contribution than what you expected at the
beginning. But now, first, what else was better than expected? And second, you should update
the target now, but I assume you will not do it today. But in any case, in a chart you are presenting
the range of luxury companies with an EBITDA margin between 33% and 37%. Can we take these
as a sort of long-term target for you?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I think the day I will feel really comfortable is when we define the segment as a top end. So
whenever I get there, you'll know we stopped and we're doing something else. But right now,
we've got a long way to go. So we have a long distance from us to claiming ownership of the
EBITDA margin `generation, thanks to a strong adjusted EBITDA, partially offset by CapEx to support continuous world.Look, the easy answer to your target, yes, we may be there a couple of `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Servicess before. Yes, forex
may have helped and other things may have gone in the other direction. But we have been able
to perform well across all of the issues that we faced, both pricing, cost containment, distribution,
everything else is running better than it has historically.
I think I'm encouraged by the quality of the team that runs this business. I think that we have a
bunch of good kids here who are doing a phenomenal job of moving the agenda forward. The
only thing I can tell you is that the minute that I hit the €1 billion, you'll be the first guy to know
what the next target is. But until I get there, it's no use me threatening you with something that I
haven't got.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `
Okay. `Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me. Forex, last `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services, you mentioned at the beginning of the `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services €50 `million, and taxes, which included full `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services 2015 tax balance and 2016 tax advance payments.. Is it
possible to have a rough indication for the current `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services?
A - `Alessandro Gili, the Group's Chief Financial Officer. At the end of the presentation, they will be `
Yes. I think it would be basically consistent. Just to clarify, the FX hedges impact foreseen for this
`year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services, so for the current `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services, is close to be zero. Obviously in terms of variance compared to last
`year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services, since we were penalized especially in the first six months of the `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services, you will see the
benefit just coming from a variance analysis standpoint.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Historical to historical. But if you remove the impact of hedges, you should not notice the
difference.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `
Okay. `Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me. And just if possible any statement on the Formula 1 stake potential investment?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Look, we started exploring that opportunity now. We're in discussions with Liberty. I just recently
had a meeting with Chase. The issue is not just a question of the financial investment. This is
something that we do for a living in a very serious way. The Concorde Agreement expires in
2020. So becoming a non-voting shareholder and entity which effectively keeps us trapped in
without knowledge of what the 2021 and later world will look like is something I consider unwise.
And so one of the things that we tabled with Chase, and I think we're not the only ones that are
tabling these concerns, but one of the things that I've tabled with Chase is clarity on what the
post-2020 world looks like and what Ferrari may be able to get from its involvement in Formula 1
activities. Once we have clarity, then I think it becomes a lot easier to decide whether we want to
participate in this venture. I think that there's a huge amount of upside left in F1, which if properly
managed, can deliver rewards to everybody who's an investor in this business. But we need
clarity, and we're not there yet.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `
Okay. `Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me.
Operator`Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me. We'll now move to our next question, which comes from `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA of Kepler
Cheuvreux. Please go ahead.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA `
`Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me very much. It's `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA, Kepler Cheuvreux. I'd like to follow-up on this F1 topic
because the change in ownership is potentially bringing new rules already. Is there any negative
impacts or positive impacts to expect from that in the 2017 accounts? Knowing as well that I think
the ranking in the `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services, that will impact 2017, has been a bit lower than the previous `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Obviously, it has an impact. We have not performed well, and we know it. What I do expect,
to be honest, is the sport itself to do better in 2017. And I think that will be a great basis for us to
continue our commitment to Formula 1 and to really set the basis for a post-2020 world. And I
would expect that Liberty and Chase in particular would have a very clear understanding of the
fact that the entertainment side of this needs to come back to play. I mean, we cannot keep on
committing to a sport that has sort of decreasing audiences for a variety of reasons. And so we
need to re-popularize, I apologize for the expression but, we need to re-popularize the sport and
we need to make it more accessible. And so there's a lot of work that needs to be done. We will
do our part as Scuderia in making sure that that happens, but that work needs to get underway in
earnest now.
But in terms of economic impact, I would not – I wouldn't suggest there's going to be any earth-
shattering events in 2017 that will change performance. And as you well know, if we do end up
winning, unfortunately, there are a number of people that will claim ownership to the excess
spoils, so. Alessandro keeps on telling me that financially it may not be a good idea to win. But
we'll see.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA `
I'm sure you'd like it, though. Could you make a comment, please, on the mix for 2017 and give us
an idea of how many Aperta have been sold already in 2016, please?
A - `Alessandro Gili, the Group's Chief Financial Officer. At the end of the presentation, they will be `
We are not disclosing the exact number, just for – I think you see from the disclosure the
combination of LaFerrari and LaFerrari Aperta in 2016 was close to 100 units.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA `
Okay. And can you comment on the mix 2017, please?
A - `Alessandro Gili, the Group's Chief Financial Officer. At the end of the presentation, they will be `
In 2017, the mix should be improving on the V12 side most likely because we have full power over
the GTC4Lusso now, and then something will come...
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
And there may be other cars that will be launched in the 12-cylinders section. I mean, the oldest
car of the line-up today is the F12.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA `Okay. Last question for me, please. Your engine business has roofed in the second half with the
Levante and the F1-related business. Can you give us any vague idea about the relative
profitability of that business against the Car business, please?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
It's margin dilutive.
Q - `Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations `
Okay. `Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me very much.
Operator
`Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me. We'll now take our next question, which comes from `Richard Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar, Inc. (Research) of Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Richard Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar, Inc. (Research) `
Good afternoon and good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. Two from my side, please.
With respect to the discussion that we've seen in media lately about Formula E and given the cap
that Ferrari may run up against at some point for being considered a small manufacturer, is there
any potential for electric at some point? Or is electric something that Ferrari would view as similar
to crossover and SUV since electrics don't have the sound that you would equate with a Ferrari
V12? Or is the performance something that, given some of the performance vehicles that we've
seen in electrics, is this something that is enticing at all to Ferrari?
And then to tag onto the earlier question about the new ownership in F1, I've seen some media
reports lately about a change in the structure of payments made in annual winnings from F1.
Wonder if you could comment any on potential changes in the future coming down the line on the
contractual agreements that Ferrari has?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
To put your mind at rest, there are going to be no changes to the contractual agreements until
2020 with F1 and Ferrari. The topic has not even been broached and I think it would be incredibly
unwise to raise it as a discussion topic. But the first issue, which has to do with our attachment to
electrics, I think we do consider combustion to be an integral part of what we do. I think I've tried,
and I'm not sure when I did it, it may have been on the third quarter call where I've highlighted the
need for Ferrari to effectively embrace electrification as an integral part of its powertrain offering.
And there's a huge amount, and Alessandro made reference to this in his remarks about the
capital side and the fact that there's a portion of our R&D and capital, which now needs to be
devoted to the hybrid effort in Ferrari. Not, and without being disrespectful of people who are
into emissions and so on, but really to accomplish two things. One is to make it relevant
technologically and technically in today's world, but equally important is to augment the driving
experience that one would get from driving a Ferrari by having a combination of both electric and
combustion engines available to the driver.
You made reference to the fact that the performance is now – there may be equivalent
availabilities in the electric cars in terms of performance. I hate to disagree with you. I think that
the real problem with electric is that they will never give you the driving dynamics that a Ferrari
does. And it's a combination of the weight of the car and the way in which the powertrain is
located. I think a number of cars can, especially electric cars, can produce a huge amount oftorque, which is instantly available on the wheels and which can deliver exhilarating acceleration.
The problem is not going straight. The problem is driving a track.
And that's where most electric cars I think will fall short of Ferrari standards, and we need to
continue to work on the hybridization as a way in which we can bridge the distance between that
reality and where Ferrari is today. And I think you will see hopefully by 2019 that as difficult as that
task is in terms of delivering a phenomenal driving experience, Ferrari is going to get very close.
So leave it with us. We will provide something which is technologically relevant by 2019 in terms of
electrics, but it will have to be reflective of Ferrari's DNA.
Q - `Richard Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar, Inc. (Research) `
Is that part of – or would Formula E have to be a part of – participation there for Ferrari and
Formula E, would that have to be a part of the development into the electric side for Ferrari to
generate the enthusiasm for potential electrics just as it's done with Formula 1?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
No. I think those two things are distinct. The Formula E arrangement now, as much as I think it's a
valiant effort to make technology relevant on the track, it's still substantially short of what I would
expect to have. I mean the fact that you have to change cars during a race is unhelpful, simply
because of the duration of the battery charges. There are things that I think really maim the sport.
I think we need to find a better way of expressing the interest in electrification than through
Formula E. Having said this, we continue to look at it. And I think I have not given up on the idea of
potentially one day entering, if the parameters are such that the Ferrari can effectively make a
difference. If it cannot make a difference, then it should not play.
Q - `Richard Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar, Inc. (Research) `
Very good. Thanks, again, for taking my question.
Operator
`Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me. We'll now move to our next question, which comes from `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Great. Thanks for taking my question. Just to follow-up on one of the recent questions about
electrification, but maybe probe it more from a financial perspective. I think, Sergio, you were
quoted in November saying that Ferrari would embrace the hybrid world. What magnitude of
upward pressure might there be on RD&E or CapEx ahead of these expected launches in 2019?
And then when the vehicles do launch, would it be the case also for your range cars, like with the
LaFerrari, that the primary motivation would be really to enhance the performance and appeal
and so maybe pricing? Rather than to comply with regulations like a mainstream car company?
And so therefore the impact to profits from hybridization could actually be positive, as opposed
to neutral or negative? I mean how should investors think about the financial implication?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
I think that the commitment on the capital side is a number which is manageable within the
confines of Ferrari. There's additional capital coming on. We have started looking at this now. And
it's especially an issue in terms of the assembly lines as opposed to anything else because they
do require a particular type of space to allow these powertrains to be installed. So we areworking ahead of this now to make sure that when we get there in 2019, the facilities will be there
to handle it.
The question which is really relevant to me is the question is what is the impact of that
technology, the cost of that technology, on the placement of the cars and the pricing that what
we get? And I'll give you a very simple answer. I think the price of the car will move up to reflect
the technology and it will be done with a way of retaining margin in that process, not just absolute
margins, but percentage margins.
It is – this is not – the offering itself will be so unique in the marketplace, and I say this with all due
respect to my competitors, but I think it will be so unique that it would actually be able to garner
the price that it deserves and more than enough to offset the cost of technology because what
you're getting in exchange is a unique driving experience that is not available anywhere else. And
I would assume I think that our customer base will adapt to the changing world and I think they will
accept the fact that the technology has a price and that needs to be paid. Certainly all indications
that the interfaces that I've had with the customer base over the last two `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Servicess suggest that
they're willing to do that.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Great. Thanks. And just my last question is I see that the vehicle shipments to greater China, they
were up 1% in all of 2016, but 36% lower in 4Q on termination of a distributor in Hong Kong. So I
realize that you have wait lists globally so selling fewer cars in one region doesn't really mean
your overall numbers have to be impacted because you can reallocate, but are there plans in
place or are you working on plans to secure a new distributor in Hong Kong? And when should we
think about you returning to growth in the greater China market?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. The answer is 2017. The answer to your second question: we're already working on the
replacement now. And one of the things that is not on the Asia Pacific number is the introduction
of the 8 cylinder GTC, which was really designed for a variety of reasons, including the fact that
the four-wheel drive was not required in the region, but also from a pricing and duty and taxation
standpoint, it was a better car for the market. So that car has not been made available to that
market. It will be in 2017, so I would expect numbers to follow.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Okay. `Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me.
Operator
`Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me. We'll now move to our next question, which comes from `Michael Binetti, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC of UBS. Please
go ahead.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Hey. Good afternoon, guys. Congrats on a great `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services. Just for very simplistic sakes for our
models, as we look out to 2018, for the EBITDA numbers, should we expect that to grow with –
just in very simple terms, the tailwind from FX rolls off, the Aperta rolls off, we get a lot of
questions about that. Considering how much supercars contribute to the EBITDA for the
company, 2018 is a growth EBITDA `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services, correct?Yes.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Okay. And then at the time of the IPO, we talked a lot about the pace of the supercars and it was
– as long as every 10 `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Servicess, depending on technology that you guys were ready to launch, but
things have changed since then. How do you think about the frequency that the market and your
very best customers can absorb for supercars today?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
We're going to be careful about defining supercars. I think the problem that we have and we're
seeing this now, we've seen the incarnation of the problem through – I'll give you two examples
that have happened in the last 24 months. We launched LaFerrari in 2013 as a car. We launched
the Enzo in 2003 and there was a decade cadence that was assigned through the introduction of
the supercars. And they were really – these were cars that set a technology tone that effectively
guided the house for the following 10 `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Servicess. And I would suggest that that cadence is not going
to be impacted by anything that we might do in the interim. It may very well be that in the next –
in 2023 that we would re-launch a car that sets the cadence for the next technology shift.
The real issue to me is what happens in between. And we have seen now, certainly, in 2015 and
2016, with the introduction of the F60, the America version of the car that was launched, the J50
now in Japan, the Tour de France, which was effectively the last version of the F12 in its extreme
form, a reincarnation of the supercar concept, as long as we stay faithful to the notion of limited
editions and restricted distribution, there are things that don't have to be a supercar, which are
sufficiently supercar to make them more frequent and available on the marketplace throughout
this decade split between the Enzos and LaFerrari and the LaFerrari successor.
And this is something that we are learning how to do. We need to do more of this, but we do it
and to do it in such a way that does not minimize the relevance of the shift that we get on a
decade basis. Those are real clean breaks in technology. I mean I happen to have both cars, both
the Enzo and LaFerrari. And I'd tell you, to drive the Enzo today and then get into LaFerrari, you're
talking about shifts in centuries in terms of technology. That will continue to happen within Ferrari.
But in the interim, we continue to play and derive from those technology breaks sufficiently
unique and sufficiently limited cars that will make our customer base interested in participating in
the development of the brand.
And by the way, as a general remark, I think that the real issue to us is not the – it is the current
customer base and it's a customer base about which I care a lot. It has been at the heart of a
successful Ferrari for the last – certainly for the last 20 `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Servicess and we need to continue to nurture it
and stay very close to it and develop a level of intimacy with that customer, which is probably
unparalleled in the industry. But the real issue to me is how do I make the customer base larger,
not by inviting every Tom, Dick and Harry in it, but by making the offering sufficiently pliable to a
different set of expectations in a marketplace that allows for that family to grow, and really not
grow into a huge tribe, but a manageable tribe of customers that we can get to the 10,000
number without disrupting the DNA of the brand.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Okay. Thanks, Sergio. If I could get one last quick model question in, could you help us think about
the implied free cash flow in 2017, excluding some of the abnormal items that are a little tougher
to model off of the taxes and the advances, et cetera?A - `Alessandro Gili, the Group's Chief Financial Officer. At the end of the presentation, they will be `
The implied number is between €280 `million, and taxes, which included full `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services 2015 tax balance and 2016 tax advance payments. and €300 `million, and taxes, which included full `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services 2015 tax balance and 2016 tax advance payments. pre-dividend.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Okay. `Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me.
Operator
`Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me. We'll now take our next question, which comes from `Lello della Ragione, Analyst, Intermonte Sim SpA of
Intermonte. Please go ahead.
Q - `Lello della Ragione, Analyst, Intermonte Sim SpA `
Hi. So one left from my side. Really, it's actually on taxes. In your press release at one point you
state that the 29.5% of this `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services is due both the effect of the reduction in the `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Servicess plus
deduction from R&D investment. But does it mean that you had already accounted for some of
the effect this `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services, or we should wait for the final agreement with the tax authorities to
understand the impact of the so-called patent box?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Until the final agreement.
Operator
`Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me. We'll now take our next question, which comes from `George Galliers, Analyst, Evercore ISI of Evercore.
Please go ahead.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Hi. Good day. I had a quick question just around the Maserati engine agreement. I mean, clearly,
Maserati is seeing great shipment growth right now. When the agreement was put in place, you
were both part of the same group. Can you give any indication whether the `commercial, engines to Maserati and other Formula 1 teams, as well as brand and other terms of
the agreement were as `commercial, engines to Maserati and other Formula 1 teams, as well as brand and otherly beneficial to Ferrari as they might have been had you not
been part of the same group at the time? And if they weren't, at what point might – you'd be
able to renegotiate the terms in order for them to be more favorable to yourselves? Is there any
opportunity there in the near to medium-term?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Terribly conflicted on this because I'm the CEO of the buyer of the engine. So I can only give you
an account of what happened on the inside of the sales when this transpired. The price was
negotiated. And because of the fact that it was a related-party transaction, because there was a
minority shareholder even in Ferrari at the time, it actually went through scrubbing, cleansing,
carwash and every type of analysis that you can think of at other committee of both FCA and now
Ferrari to make sure that there was nothing that was offensive in the agreement, and it reflected
arms' length conditions.
I don't know of a situation other than the four corners of the agreement today that would
suggest that on this engine there would be room for renegotiation. The thing is accretive. The
more engines we make, the better the margin performance gets because it assumes it works offan existing fixed cost base. And therefore it will never match car margins because of the
difference in pricing. But it gets better the more engines they take.
There are additional ancillary benefits from that arrangement, including the utilization of the
assets and the training of the workforce that make its – has additional operational benefits. I will –
there's nothing to write home to mom about. But it is overall a good package for Ferrari. The
question is will Ferrari do a similar deal with another OEM. And the answer is probably yes. We will
do it, even if FCA was not FCA and another OEM showed up and asked for the assistance.
The problem that you've got right now, to be honest, is that when you look at the size of the
supply and given the success that Levante is having in the marketplace, the volumes that we're
now pitching for 2017 are probably in excess of 30,000 engines a `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services. And at that kind of rhythm
you start reaching numbers where the production of that engine effectively becomes even viable
for FCA on its own terms. So we got to be very careful – and I'm not giving any idea to the FCA
CEO here who just left the room, but there's a point in time in which this thing could be
internalized with an FCA, perhaps some better terms because of the work cycles and established
infrastructure.
So I don't want to touch this engine for the time being, nor do I want to see the arrangement
disturbed. I think any future development going forward is going to reflect the development of
the Ferrari engineering skills on a wider basis than a relationship with FCA. And I think that Ferrari,
as it matures through its technical development, will be able to do that for more than one entity
and probably beyond FCA. But it's way too early to start talking about that now.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Great insight. `Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me. And then just one quick question on FX. In the EBIT bridge, you did flag
sterling as a driver of negative transaction prices. Can you just give us an idea of what actions you
have taken to mitigate the fall in sterling? Or what actions you're looking to take? I mean, given
you are Ferrari and not a mass market OEM, can you not push reprices when there's the sort of
structural change in FX very quickly?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
The answer is yes. And we will. I mean we will just have to adjust. I cannot – there's nothing that I
can do to compensate for sterling. Not a thing. And so to make the car viable and present in the
market it needs to be offered to reflect my cost structure. Nor can I jeopardize margins in order
to accommodate the drop. I actually think we can have long discussions here as to whether this is
a permanent drop in sterling or whether it's a temporary one. Reality is that we will – there's
enough substance in the realignment in sterling rates that it makes our pricing decisions
unavoidable. We have to adjust them and we have.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Great. `Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me.
Operator
`Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me. We'll now take our final question from `Massimo Vecchio, Analyst, Mediobanca Banca di Credito Finanziario SpA of Mediobanca. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Massimo Vecchio, Analyst, Mediobanca Banca di Credito Finanziario SpA `Good afternoon, everybody. Mr. Marchionne, earlier in the call you said that EBITDA guidance is
conservative. Now I was hearing about the industrial free cash flow for 2017, clean of all the
unusual being almost equal to the 2016 one, so €300 `million, and taxes, which included full `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services 2015 tax balance and 2016 tax advance payments.. Can we say that also this indication
is conservative?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
There you are. Yes. Yes, you can.
Q - `Massimo Vecchio, Analyst, Mediobanca Banca di Credito Finanziario SpA `
Good. I imagine...
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
You can accuse Alessandro of a lot of things. Not being consistent is not one of them.
Q - `Massimo Vecchio, Analyst, Mediobanca Banca di Credito Finanziario SpA `
I don't accuse Alessandro of anything, I mean. Second question, if I may. Again, earlier in the call
you said that this `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services we may see some manifestation of expansion beyond cars. Could it be
hinting at buying some motorbikes? Or is it probably too ambition for 2017 – too ambitious for
2017?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Motorbike story. Motorbikes will not be available in 2017. But I think that there are ways in which
we can express the brand through the luxury side that we're experimenting with. And I – to be
honest with you, if you have to ask me whether I was 100% certain that all these things are viable
and whether we should make them a core business or not, I'm not sure. That's why I think we
need to experiment and experiment carefully. One of the things we cannot do is do something
which will bring ill repute to the brand. That's something that I will not allow to happen. And so
regardless of how appealing it may be from a financial standpoint, we will not let it disrupt the
DNA of Ferrari. We just won't.
We spent the last two `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Servicess just making sure that all our retail exposures reflect the Scuderia
Ferrari and not the Ferrari brand by itself. Because those are two different worlds. We're dealing
with fans and we're dealing with people who follow the racing activity, the Ferrari brand is
reserved for our customers. And those customers, the people that buy GT cars, have unique set
of requirements and expectations, which fundamentally cannot be accomplished through the
retail `side of the business, which caters to a different set of clientele..
So we need to go back and rethink it. We have. And I think our introduction into that luxury space
needs to be cautious and it needs to be paced. So give us some time. We'll get it right. But the
important thing from our standpoint is that none of the targets that we set as we were talking to
people about what we expected from this business in the next five `year, we completed a bond issuance and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Servicess are at all impacted or
minimized by the care and the – that we're now taking on the launch of the luxury side of the
business, because the business – the car itself, the car business itself, is offering a greater
number of possibilities for expansion at a much more certain margin rate than anything else
would. So we need to get really good at this while at the same time exploring things that we're
not that familiar with and which have, at least from a risk standpoint, a lesser opportunity for
margin `generation, thanks to a strong adjusted EBITDA, partially offset by CapEx to support continuous than we have today.So look, the business is in great shape. I think it knows where it's going. And I think it's going to
play with these areas. I think if we get those right, they could be as significant long-term as car is,
but it needs time and it needs maturity, and things which we don't have going for us right now. So
you tell me at the end of 2017 as to whether you think that we've done anything of value. You'll
be able to see it.
Q - `Massimo Vecchio, Analyst, Mediobanca Banca di Credito Finanziario SpA `
Okay. `Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me very much.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
You're welcome.
Operator
`Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me. That will conclude today's question-and-answer session. I would now like to turn the
call back to Ms. Russo for any additional or closing remarks.
A - `Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations `
`Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me, everyone, for joining us today. The IR team will be soon available for any follow-up
questions you may have. `Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me, everyone.
Operator
`Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me. That concludes today's conference call. `Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. Hello, everyone, and thank you for listening in on the call. And let me for your participation. Ladies and
gentlemen, you may now disconnect.