Q4 2017 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day and welcome to the Ferrari NV Full Year 2017 Results Conference Call. Today's
conference is being recorded.
At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to host today, Ms. -- `Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations, please go ahead,
madam.
`Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Sarah and welcome to everyone who's joining us. Today's call will be offset by the
Group's Chairman and CEO, `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer, Group's Chief Financial
Officer. All relevant materials are available in the Investors section of the Ferrari Corporate
website. And at the end of the presentation, we will be available to answer your questions.
Before we begin, let me remind you that any forward-looking statements we might make during
today's call are subject to the risks and uncertainties mentioned in the Safe Harbor statement,
included on page two of today's presentation and the call will be governed by this language.
With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Marchionne.
`Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks very much. Just a couple of mark -- couple of remarks to start -- to start off the
presentation today and then I'll pass the line to Alessandro, he will take you through the details of
2017. Broadly speaking, it's been a good year. I think we made all the numbers -- that we had
targeted, I think you -- you saw from the headline that we actually overachieved our own
ambitions if you go back to the time of the IPO, we were targeting about a 1 billion in EBITDA. A
couple of years from now, we got there much earlier and we -- we like to shape of the EBIT andEBITDA margins that we've been able to get for '17 and some indication of the fact that we keep
on improving the quality of the offering, I think it's reflected in the margin generation of the
house, cash is decent.
But I think more importantly, from my standpoint which is really -- is what connects us to the -- to
the second part of -- of what we've announced today is that, the execution of the plan that we've
outlined at least numerically in terms of the objectives for 2022 continues -- continues to
progress well. I think that -- this is -- that we have entered a very interesting period in the
development of Ferrari, I think this is the fact that we have now embraced pretty openly the
relevance of hybrid structures and -- and the way in which we provide motion to our vehicles is
something which is going to really distinguish the Ferrari of today those on the -- from the Ferrari
of tomorrow. And I think that we've got a phenomenal execution going on the field, like I feel
comfortable that we're going to make, and some of the stuff will be visible in 2019. So it's one of
that we're talking about projects that will -- are so -- so long dated, that they are associated with
a long level of uncertainty.
So I -- I'm overall satisfied I think that the house is firing on all cylinders, and so I'm -- I'm happy, I
think that we are in a -- in a good place. Couple of comments about the euro-dollar stuff that
we've been watching, I made it clear before that I did not think and I still don't think that euro --
under the euro or any vagaries of the foreign exchange markets can impact the financial
performance of Ferrari.
So I -- I think the house is unique enough and strong enough to be able to decide its own pricing
in -- in euros. I think we will be respectful of commitments that we have made to our customers
up to now, but I think that we -- we need to condition our dealers and our -- our customers to
accept the fact that the vagaries of ForEx cannot be on the account of Ferrari, I don't like charts
that show so this -- that charts at the end that explain the variance on the base of ForEx, it makes
a lot more sense when you're making 5 million cars, it doesn't make a lot of sense when you're
making 9,000. We are a luxury good maker, I think that we have well fortunate enough to sit on
our -- on our waiting list for our products, I think we need to be able to have so in the certainty of
guaranteeing economic performance regardless of where our functional currency sits.
We made reference in our opening headlines, and I guess somewhere in the body about the --
the plan for 2022. It's pretty clear that we intend to double EBITDA on or before 2022. I think the
important thing is -- is to produce cash and I think we've made a commitment to bring down our
debt levels to zero on or before 2021, obviously subject to any repurchase activities that we may
carry on that may change that objective. But as of today, I think that we are targeting 2021 or
earlier to go zero -- to go zero. Yeah, It doesn't address the question as to whether it -- it makes
sense or not -- not to repurchase shares.
I think that issue we've discussed certainly on other calls, and I've discussed that with some
investors from time to time. If we are and we are absolutely convinced that these numbers are
doable. We certainly have the full backing of the board and going out there and making sure that
we carry out an active buyback program that ensure us that we preserve the highest value for the
shareholders intent to stay.
What is embedded in that 2 billion number, and that we have stayed away from making any
reference for the number of cars that we intend to sell because this really irrelevant. But what is
important to us is that the 2 billion reflects the highest EBIT and EBITDA margins that are available
in the sector. So it's not spelled out -- in the press release. But the objective is to set standard for
the sector with that number and I think that -- that's what we're striving to get done by 2022.I'll give one more piece of our information because -- and business coming as it is used to -- to
Nicoletta and to Alessandro, so I apologize, we're doing it. But we decided that we're going to
move the Capital Markets Day for the third quarter of this year. I've been agonizing over this
thing, because bringing investors and to try and discuss models that I cannot show you and
margins that I can't talk about is a pretty useless activity. So what we've -- decide to do is that
we're going to bring you in -- in the third quarter of this year, preferably and hopefully in
September.
And there's a number of things that we're planning to do then, but -- but I think the whole
objective is for you to experience what it's like to be a Ferrari customer, and to really being able
to see the experience that our customers that go through and coming into the sales and
becoming --
becoming one of our customers. We will have our new style center that is opened by then the yet
earlier or before fully functional. We'll probably be launching a car when you come and so we'll do
that at the same time. And I think that you'll -- you'll be able to experience the full flavor of Ferrari
in terms of what we do on a daily basis and -- and then I think you need to draw your own
conclusions about what the financial horsepower of this house is. I think 2017 is a good indication
of how well it fires.
I think we're going to see over the next three or four years what the true potential of this house
history as we get to the 2 billion mark. So on that happy note, I'll pass it on to Alessandro to take
you through the 2017 data.
`Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Mr. Marchionne. So good -- good morning and good afternoon to everyone. Just few
comments on -- on Slide 3 to cover a few items. We have highlighted our engineering and design
efforts, where we were globally awarded with International Engine of the year and with the Red
Dot: Best of the Best for the second and third year respectively.
As you know, we've been celebrating our 70 year anniversary we took time to share this relevant
milestones with all of our customers from various events all over the world. And the Group is
proposing a dividend distribution for the holders of common shares of EUR0.71 per common
share, corresponding to a total dividend distribution to shareholders of approximately EUR134
million. And as a reminder, this is subject to the approval at the 2018 Shareholders Annual General
Meeting.
On Page 4, we have highlighted some of the key elements of what will contribute to our
performance for 2018. We'd launched the 812 Superfast, our latest V12 sports car and the Ferrari
Portofino, our latest V8 GT and in addition, during the FinalI Mondiali last year, the Mugello
Racetrack, we -- we unveiled the non-registered racing car FXX K EVO, which is a strictly limited
edition.
From Page 5, we are going for the details of our 2017 financials. Our shipments reached the
8,398 units, up 384 units or 4.8% versus prior year. Results were driven by a 25.1% increase in V12
models, thanks to the GTC4Lusso, LaFerrari Aperta yet to finish it -- its limited series run as well
as the 812 Superfast, that is approaching a global reach.
V8 models were in line with prior year due to the California T phase-out, offset by 488 family and
the GTC4Lusso Turbo that posted a solid performance. In terms of portfolio turnover, the
California T and the F12berlinetta are phased-out as well as the F12tdf that's finished its limited
series run in 2017. The newly launched Ferrari Portofino will commence deliveries in Q2 2018.Group net revenues for 2017 were EUR3,417 million, up 10% or a 11.2% at constant currencies. Our
adjusted EBITDA improved by 17.8%, reaching EUR1,036 million and 30.3% margin, hitting the IPO
target of EUR1 billion adjusted EBITDA two years ahead. Adjusted EBIT for the Group showed a
22.7% increase in reaching EUR775 million with a margin expansion of 230 basis points or 22.7%.
Industrial free cash flow for 2017 was -- EUR328 million, driven by strong adjusted EBITDA,
partially offset by CapEx, tax payments and lack of contribution from advances of LaFerrari
Aperta. Net industrial debt at December 31st was reduced to EUR473 million from EUR653 million
at December 31st, 2016, thanks to positive industrial free cash flow generation, partially offset by
cash distribution of 120 million.
Moving to shipments on Page 6. We had a solid performance of the 488 and the GTC4Lusso
families, as well as LaFerrari Aperta. The 812 Superfast is approaching its global reach. Shipments
for the Group were up 4.8%, where EMEA grew almost 4% with Italy, France and UK growing at
double-digit base, while Germany recorded mid single-digit growth, thanks to the 488 and the
GTC4Lusso families, as well as the 812 Superfast.
Other European countries were up single-digit with the Middle East was -- while Middle East was
down due to a reallocation triggered by a tough market conditions. Americas showed a 4.6%
increase and Rest of Asia Pacific grew -- 12.3%. Combined deliveries in China, Hong Kong and
Taiwan were flat due to the slowdown in Hong Kong as for Ferrari's decision to determinate the
distributor in 2016 and the new dealership becoming fully operational in Q3 2017.
Moving on to Page 7, 2017 net revenues reached EUR3.4 billion, up 10% versus prior year or a
11.2% at constant currencies. Cars and spare parts revenues were up 12.7% or EUR276 million,
thanks to higher volumes and positive mix led by V12 range models, as well as La Ferrari Aperta,
along with the greater contribution from our personalization programs and pricing increases. This
was partially offset by the end of La Ferrari lifecycle in 2016, as well as the non-registered racing
car FXX K and the strictly limited addition F60 America, completing their limited series run in
2016.
Engines revenues grew to EUR373 million, thanks to strong sales from Maserati, more than
offsetting the termination of the rental agreement with a Formula 1 racing team. Sponsorship,
commercial and brand revenues were up EUR6 million to EUR494 million, thanks to higher
sponsorship and brand-related revenues, partially offset by lower 2016 commercial revenues for
the championship ranking compared to 2015. Other revenues were down by EUR5 million to
EUR94 million, mostly due to the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services business
since November 2016.
Moving to Page 8, you can see the year-over-year changes in the main items of our adjusted EBIT.
The volume was up EUR67 million due to an increase of approximately 360 units, excluding
LaFerrari and LaFerrari Aperta, thanks to the GTC4Lusso and the 488 families, as well as the 812
Superfast together with positive contribution from our personalization programs. This was
partially offset by the California T and the F12berlinetta phase-out.
Mix was positively impacted by LaFerrari Aperta, strong performance from product range models
and pricing increases. This was partially offset by LaFerrari that completed its lifecycle in 2016, as
well as the non-registered racing car FXX K and the strictly limited edition F60 completing their
limited series run in 2016.
Industrial costs and R&D grew EUR23 million, mainly due to higher R&D expenses to support
product range and components innovation for hybrid technology. This was partially offset byprior year as they were impacted by charges in connection with the equity incentive plan,
expenses related to our 70 anniversary celebrations and higher costs related to new directly
operated stores. This was partially offset by the deconsolidation of the European Financial
Services businesses since November 2016.
Foreign exchange, excluding hedges had a negative impact mainly due to US dollar, Great Britain
pound, Yen and the Chinese Renminbi depreciation versus the euro. Other decreased mainly due
to lower 2016 championship ranking compared to 2015, the termination of the rental agreement
with a Formula 1 racing team and the deconsolidation of the European Financial Services business.
This was partially offset by positive contribution from Engines to Maserati. As a result of all of the
above, full year 2017 adjusted EBIT was up 22.7% to EUR775 million, adjusted EBIT margin
expanded by 230 basis points, reaching 22.7% or 22.1% without the FX hedges and adjusted
EBITDA reached 33 -- 30.3% margin or 29.8% without FX hedges.
On Page 9, you can see the industrial free cash flow for the year that was 328 million, driven by
strong adjusted EBITDA of EUR1 billion, this was partially offset by net change in working capital of
6 -- EUR61 million as a result of inventory and trade payables increase driven by the projected
volume growth in line with our 2018 production outlook.
Tax payments include the 2016 tax balance, as well as the 2017 tax advance payments and CapEx
of EUR387 million. Other was impacted by a lack of contribution from advances of LaFerrari
Aperta partially offset by advances from the Ferrari J50. Net industrial debt at December 31st
reached EUR473 million, thanks for the strong investor free cash flow generation, partially offset
by cash distributions and dividend to our NCI for a total of EUR121 million.
On Page 10, just a quick glance at our client relationship activities to -- to provide you how we
organize -- various events all over the world to celebrate our 70 anniversary with our customers.
And on Page 11 and 12, we are providing an update for our other activities.
Moving to Page 13, we show our 2018 outlook as follows. Shipments at over 9,000 unit with a
strong contribution from range models and new model launches. Net revenues at over EUR3.4
billion, driven by strong volume, higher sponsorship and better F1 ranking revenues, partially
offset by lower LaFerrari Aperta, finishing its limited series run and negative FX. Adjusted EBITDA
rate are equal to EUR1.1 billion, thanks to positive contribution from range models, volume,
sponsorship, better F1 ranking, lower industrial cost and R&D, partially offset by lower LaFerrari
Aperta and negative FX.
Net industrial debt lower than EUR400 million, supported by positive industrial free cash flow
generation, thanks to strong adjusted EBITDA, partially offset by CapEx taxes -- the CapEx, taxes
and dividend distributions to holders of common shares. Please note that we haven't included
any patent box effect an opportunity for 2018. And capital expenditures at roughly EUR550
million, the increase is due to support the broadening and the hybridization of our product range
in line with the expected volume growth over the 2019-2022 period.
And lastly on the following page, after thoroughly reviewing its current portfolio and all of its
product development initiatives, the Group is targeting an adjusted EBITDA performance of EUR2
billion and EUR1.2 billion in industrial free cash flow, no later than 2022, and to the net industrial
debt free after dividend and capital distribution and including -- excluding share repurchases, no
later than 2021.
With that, I'd like to turn over the call for -- to Mr. Marchionne for any final remarks.
`Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `No, we can go ahead to the Q&A session. Please go ahead. Thank you.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We'll now move to our first question today from `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Banca IMI
of Banca IMI. Please go ahead.
Q - `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Banca IMI `
Good afternoon, and thanks for taking my questions. I was wondering if you can give us some
indications about the pricing effect that we can assume for 2018? And if you can also update us
on the personalization rate in 2017 and what we can expect going forward, also on the back of
the mid-term guidance. Should we expect an increase in personalization or a flat trend in
comparison with the current start-of-the-art of the Company? Thank you very much.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
I'm going to try and help Alessandro with this. And I can't answer -- your question in detail, I'm
going to give you some broad line suggestions as to what how we got to the 2 billion. We're not
doubling volumes, so we must be improving other mix of the industry utilization of the plan. It is
established policy of this house that we're trying to enrich the offering to the marketplace and
therefore, we're trying to improve our ability to extract margins from the businesses that we're
currently carrying out, that's something that continues into the plan. And therefore, I would expect
-- I would have expected a rationally and logically as a consequence of what I said, the
personalization and pricing of both expected to improve over the mid-term period, but that's just
the way I look at it. You can draw your own conclusion. The 2 billion is unmovable.
Q - `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Banca IMI `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We'll now move to our next question from `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America of Bank of America. Please go
ahead.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
Good morning and good afternoon, guys. Just a first question, I apologize to follow-up on this
mid-term outlook. But I mean as we think about this, I mean doubling the volume between now
and 2022 seems somewhat unrealistic, just given the way that you run the business. So I'd
imagine there would be some acceleration of growth, but not an extreme acceleration, I just want
to make sure that's -- that's true?
And then second also are all these vehicles going to be --
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Well I agree John, then?
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `Okay, and then -- and then also I mean are all these vehicles going to be produced within the
footprint of (inaudible) make advantage of capacity utilization of that plant?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Absolutely, staying right here. By the way, just to be clear, we have a body shop -- we have a
body shop which has historically been outside, but it belongs to us, it's about 15 kilometers away
from here, but it belongs to us. So there is no adjustment to the manufacturing footprint as such,
there is an improvement that we're making on the production lines, the debottleneck some parts
of -- the operations were fundamentally we're adding shifts and just running the machine that we
have today.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
Okay. Then if I look at the EBITDA and the free cash flow and assuming some level of taxes in the
25% range plus or minus because you have the patent box -- box ends up, that kind of would
indicate a CapEx number, it's around about this 500 million to 600 million that you're talking
about for 2018. So would it be a fair assessment to think that we are at this point reaching sort of
a peaky level in CapEx than R&D investment for the development of the product range as we go
forward?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I think you're looking at a couple of years of this kind of CapEx. I think we need to get over
the hump until 2020, I think that's the number that we're fighting with. And I think all of a sudden I
have -- have these discussions all the time about whether it's physically possible for us to spend
that kind of money given the fact that we never have. But I -- but I think, it's some other things
that we're -- we've taken on as part of the product portfolio, some of which hopefully will be
visible, when you come and visit in September and when you see the products being launched in
'19, I think you'll realize that we are really extending the technology bench and the reach of this
house beyond anything which is traditionally done.
And so I'm -- I think it's feasible and then we can end up spending a number of that caliber over
the next couple of years, I -- and I think it's required for us to meet the 2 billion. I mean there's not
a single doubt in my mind that in the absence of the capital of commitment, we will never ever be
able to extract the kind of margin both in terms of percentage and absolute quantum that we
have targeted for 2022.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
Okay. And then also on the back of that, I mean the E Supercar that you guys have kind of alluded
to or -- or talked about. I mean, what is the timeframe for a potential launch on that, and that sort
of coincide with this $2 billion target on EBITDA around -- 2021-2022?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. By the way, it's in the number, the target is -- I think we're expecting a vehicle sometime in
20 -- the end of 2020, beginning of 2021, and it is material to the $2 billion, but it is -- if it is in
that, it'll be another, I'm not sure that. I don't think there's a single product which is solely
responsible for the 2 billion shift, I mean it's a collection, and I think we'll talk about this when you
come on September, because that's really -- I think you need to look for the Ferrari experience, I
mean, I'm describing this to you over the phone or drawing you on a piece of paper is not going
to do it.You need to see it, I think you need to see it in the context of the product launch. I think you need
to see the impact of it has on our customers, the pricing powers exhibited by these launches, you
need to see it, it is a unique environment and I think our objective in this plan going forward, for
2022 is to protect that base that can enhance it. I think the marketplace will allow us to do it,
because I think the customer base at least our relevant customer base is actually much wider than
we have historically thought and certainly is growing at -- at a pretty rapid clip.
So I -- it's not a volume issue for us, I think we need to execute well or -- I think we have done up
to now. But I think we need to move it up that couple of notches in terms of intensity and reach.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
Yeah, I wholeheartedly agree the experience of going to Maranello is -- is definitely -- it was sort
of a -- sort of a how much you to -- to the -- the past and the present it's actually is a great
experience. Maybe just one last quick -- what (inaudible) question, how many of purchase are left
in 2018 and I think there's a lot of concern out there in the market that mix is going to go
incredibly negative in 2018 but with a few more of purchase in some of the specialty, you guys
are -- at limited edition you guys are doing, it might not be as bigger headwinds as I think some
of you are fearing so how many of purchase are there and what are you thinking about the mix in
this '18 guidance now.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, John, why you're worried about mix?
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
I'm not worried about mix. I mean I think there is, I think this is opportunity, but I think there is --
there is a little bit of a concern in the market that with the Aperta being largely delivered, but just
selling them this. So -- how many of purchase are left to go?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. And by the way -- there is a limited number of a Aperta less than which in and by
themselves would not significantly change the -- the physiognomy and the P&L on the margin. But
it's an interesting question, that you're raising but the fact that when you've got supercars with
the caliber of the Ferrari or the Aperta, you will end up getting twisted numbers. In a period of
time, and what happens is that you end up getting what I call an abnormal or anomalous margin
generation coming up from that series.
The strength of this house is that, it can actually modulate the introduction of those vehicles and it
can balance it against the reduction on base load. So that it doesn't really effectively go through
these spikes, where it -- it performs sort of strangely maybe because of these -- of these
supercars. The plan that we are we're going to -- that we have put on the -- the work we put in
place now that will be action over the next three or four years, is really designed to try and
smooth out that -- those -- those anomalies by making sure that we've got a steady flow of
things that have got similar pricing power.
We'll never be able to emulate the Aperta and LaFerrari as a steady-state condition because of
the fact that otherwise we're going to end up losing the uniqueness of the product on a cycle
basis. But there's got to be enough and we have experienced this with the TDF or the Tour de
France when I came out, we'll experience this every time we've done a special version also the
458, and the 488. I would in fact that if we can modulate and arrange the deck in such a way is tohave a steady flow of these, we will not end up having this worries and mixed deterioration that
you made reference of. I think it'll be all right, it's going to be different, because the underlying
mix of products will be different. And It has to be, right. But not enough to -- not enough for us to
change -- not enough for -- to change the directionally our progress on -- on EBIT and EBITDA
generation. It's just a --
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
Okay, very helpful --
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, go ahead.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
I was just mentioning on -- on Slide 17, I know the -- the Enzo wasn't launched in this timeframe,
but it might be just helpful to show people that there was another supercar promote, I think it
was L2204, the Enzo. Just one -- one product is kind of missing from that -- that chart, that I think
will be helpful to let them understand this. There has been bigger portion [ph] that it has.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, the Enzo was a 2003 vehicle, and then we launched -- we launched the LaFerrari -- LaFerrari
in 2013. So it is -- it is sitting on a decade cycle. But that's the past, I think that we need to adapt
to a new world. I don't know -- this is almost blasphemous. But I think that the technology shifts
between the Enzo and the Ferrari and the next car that's coming. But they are so wide, there is
whole notion of referring to them supercars and point out and they really have to be time -- they
had to be put in a time context, because they lose -- this stuff is moving too quickly.
I mean, the performance and I think we should -- we should probably have this conversation in
Geneva after we -- we launch the next car. I think when you start seeing the statistics of what's
get revealed and then well it guess revealed and then in Geneva, you realize that we're closing
the gap between the supercar and the street cars us pretty quickly.
So I -- it's a complicated issue. I think the important thing for us is to keep one making a mix of
cars that keeps on improving on EBIT and EBITDA generation, generates cash and keeps the
trend of growth towards the 2 billion unabated, that to me is -- and it's not big maneuvering stuff,
it's just by making sure that a portfolio retains that quality and never wavers from the objective. I
mean that's -- we -- I can't have a bad year. I'm not like a bank -- I was blaming on -- on the
Central banks, I cannot -- I can't have a bad year.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
I very much appreciate the color. Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. We'll now move to our next question from `Martino de Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita from Equita. Please
go ahead.
Q - `Martino de Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita `
Yeah. Thank you. Good morning, good afternoon, everybody. I know you stated that you are notwhich is an acceleration compared with the usual 4%, 5%. Am I right in thinking as it is just a
matter to offset the mix and ForEx which would be negative this year and the normal trend is the
mid single-digit or this could be taken as a reference point going forward?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Mr. Ambroggi, let me just repeat what I just -- I think I was maybe to articulate in what I said earlier,
and I was going try and give you the straight version on what I said. We're never going to produce
a car and sell a car for which we don't have demand. The objective is to keep the growth in EBIT
and EBITDA margins untouched and unwavering. And we will continue to mix the portfolio in such
a way as to achieve the 2 billion target on or before 2022. It's that simple.
Q - `Martino de Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita `
Yeah. The messages is -- is very clear, but --
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And the only -- Mr. Ambroggi, the only question you got to ask yourself is whether Alessandro
and I going to get confused with the order of priorities. I guarantee you that we've handled more
complex issues than this one.
Q - `Martino de Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita `
Okay. Looking at the -- this picture in a -- in a another way, you discussed in previous calls, the
target is 35%, 36% EBITDA margin. But if you are not doubling volumes and you signed 2 billion
EBITDA, it seems to me, you will exceed this level.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, I agree.
Q - `Martino de Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita `
Okay. And --
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Well anyway, Mr. Ambroggi, what I tried to say, and by the way I may -- we may -- I will take all the
responsibility for this if we fail. But what -- what I did say initially is that, the objective of Ferrari was
to become standard setter in EBIT and EBITDA margin generation. We're not today, we know this.
Q - `Martino de Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita `
Okay. And the agenda to --
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
We need to get it done.
Q - `Martino de Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita `
Okay. And just to -- more follow-ups, one on Formula 1, I suppose, your assumption is a steady-
state as the rules are today?A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
I'm sorry, I missed the question, Mr. Ambroggi.
Q - `Martino de Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita `
Yeah, the Formula 1, the revenue-sharing agreement I suppose in your 2022 targets are, I assume
that as a steady-state as they are today.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
I'm assuming that our position will not worsen.
Q - `Martino de Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita `
Okay. And for ForEx, when do you believe clients and dealers will get to your point on the sharing
of a ForEx risk?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
I'm willing to -- to suffer a slight cold in 2018, I think in 2019, it becomes everybody else's
pneumonia.
Okay, thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We'll now move to our next question, which comes from `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Great, thanks for taking my question. Just relative to that 2022 type outlook, can you provide
maybe a bit of a framework in terms of what would need to occur to generate that type of a
strong result, so for example, even a big picture subdivision between EBITDA, the volume
contribution, the margin contribution would be helpful. And then in the past, I think you've alluded
to an aspirational margin target of perhaps as much as 36% would be correct to presume that
generating EUR2 billion of EBITDA would require hitting that type of a margin and what are the
biggest areas of opportunity to get to that kind of margin?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. There's no doubt that in order for us to get to 2 billion we have to get to EBITDA margins
at or in excess of 36. The real issue -- and we've been sort of look on this even on previous calls,
we've tried, I think one of the thing is that we've realized in running this business is that, there is a
section of the luxury sports market that we have not addressed and we haven't addressed it,
because our emphasis has been very, very -- very much on pushing the limits of the performance
curve. And so we have played very hard in both the 812 and then a 12s on the space by chasing
performance. There is a big -- portion of the market, which has been unaccessible or where
people would have been unwilling to enter because of the -- of the demands associating with
performance, there were some people feeling uncomfortable driving 800 horsepower machines.
But there's something which is part of our DNA, in which I think we need to be reopen or rekindle
which has to do with the combination of Italian style, not just in terms of design, but in terms of --of interior finish and presentation and detail, which you can live quite easily with a high
performance engines, which are not living an extreme life. There's nothing wrong with a 600
horsepower engine, this certainly gives you enough performance to try to enjoy -- enjoy the
driving experience.
That part of that equation of the customer base has been neglected, it's been neglected
because we had a whole part of growth that go chasing the performance side. We need to
rekindle this. And I think that -- and we're hopefully will see, when you come and see us in
September as that we've been active, not only in maintaining the leading edge performance, but
also developing this other part of the portfolio, which although it uses the existing physical and
architectural infrastructure, Ferrari is capable of -- of declining itself in a way which doesn't --
doesn't scare people.
And so the new Portofino that you've seen is the first indication, a first incarnation of their product
portfolio and first indication that got -- the car is sold out for 2018. In broad terms, the GTC4Lusso
was the first -- was another -- was another attempt that curing what was perhaps not so
successful of the presentation as the FF was. But we're making progress, the next phase needs
to be a lot more intense and I think you need to be a lot more targeted at -- at bringing in
customers that have historically not been ours and certainly not in the last 10, 15 years.
And -- and the ability to present ourselves in that market, which is a lot larger where buyers are
more numerous, where I think the ability to -- to distinguish itself on -- distinguish itself on style,
pricing, confidence and so on is much greater and decent performance, is at the heart of the 2
billion -- at the heart of the 2 billion target.
And I think you will see this -- you will see this please me or you will see it in 2018 as -- as we roll-
out the -- certainly not a full year of the Portofino, but certainly three quarters of a year where the
Portofino will be active, I think you'll see it with a GTC4, which has now got both the Lusso and the
-- and the 4 by 2 versions available for distribution, you will see with a new car hopefully that we'll
launch in September, when you come and see us and you will see this -- this implementation of
the strategy, a piece of the time, because we'll be launching products that match the ambition
and it'll be visible in '19, it'll become here more visible in '20 and '21 as we approach the sort of
the final phase of the plan.
It's been an incredibly well articulated on the inside, because I think the marriage of technology
and -- and market presence needs to be understood than it need to be action, so we have --
started to work -- to work with our dealers, we have to learn how to deal with higher volumes and
they've had not excessively high volumes, but excessive volumes. And with a customer base,
which has historically not been in the mid year in the last 10 years. So I -- I think we need -- we
have done all the sort of preparatory work to get us there, we're now in execution phase.
And you'll start -- seeing these products being peeled off and coming off the -- the factory floor,
you'll see these turn hopefully themselves into --
into EBIT and EBITDA. The progress to -- for where we are today, to where we hope to be at
2022, is a combination of improved pricing and improved utilization of the asset base. And it's a
combination of all the efforts that we're carrying out, both on the sports car side and on this new
and expanding area, that we need to build on. I can't -- I don't want to give any more details,
because I'm actually, it's like decomposing the P&L for which I think we need to see -- we need to
see actualize as we go through 2018 to '22 year-by-year.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan `That's fair. Thank you. And my last question is just on your recent comment that Ferrari could offer
its customers a battery electric vehicle, just like I think you've cleared up some misconceptions
about what a Ferrari utility vehicle might be like, how many doors it might have, et cetera. And
understanding that, it's early days. But, is there anything that you can say now to clarify how
Ferrari might approach in electric vehicle, for example, we know that EVs can generate Ferrari like
acceleration, but how might you approach it from a sound perspective or ride and handling
perspective?
If it's too early or not appropriate to comment, then maybe you could just talk about what
attributes you think make a Ferrari a Ferrari? Thanks.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, you mentioned enough for me not to be -- repetitive. There's no question of sound and fun
to drive, the actual handling of the car are things which are absolutely crucial to a Ferrari. And one
other things that you will notice, I mean, I've read some interesting analyst reports that suggest
that now the Tesla had done a car, it goes 0 to 60 miles an hour in 2.7 seconds, and there is
room for -- there's no room for a super car, so I would challenge anybody who has driven an
electric car to try and drive at the same way we drive a Ferrari and you'd recognize immediately
that the handling characteristics of the car are totally different.
So whenever Ferrari will express itself in a fully -- in a fully electric vehicle, it will -- it will do so by
making sure that both sound and handling are reflective of Ferrari's heritage. The offering that's
available in the marketplace falls -- falls substantially short at that target. And the only think I did
say by the way, so we're clear, I did say that if there is an electric super car, it's going to be Ferrari
that makes it.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Got it.
Operator
Thank you. We'll now move to our next question from Adam Jonas of Morgan Stanley. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Carmen Hundley, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Hi. This is `Carmen Hundley, Analyst, Morgan Stanley on for Adam. Just a follow-up on that. If the decision were made to do
a pure EV, how would that impact your either your 2018 CapEx guidance and/or your 2022
guidance?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Would not.
Q - `Carmen Hundley, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Okay.
Operator
Thank you. We'll now move to our next question from `George Galliers, Analyst, Evercore of Evercore. Please go
ahead.Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Evercore `
Hi, and thank you for taking my question. Just following on from some of the comments you
made about appealing more to the luxury space. The GTC4Lusso T was an interesting launch for
many Ferrari followers last year. Can you give any insight into how the shipments and orders of
that car have performed versus expectations? And are you attracting a new or different customer
to Ferrari with this vehicle?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
The -- the answer is, we are attracting customers that have traditionally not been our customers.
And yes, we're making the numbers that we've built into the case, am I happy with that, stop, the
answer is not. And the reason why we're not is because we knew when we launched the car, that
that is not our area of expertise, our area of strength. So I -- I think we've always -- I mean
although I can make the comment with a straight face then the Portofino is completely sold out. I
think if you order a GTC4Lusso now, and you'll get one in 2018. I guarantee it, I can't tell you which
month, but you'll get it within the year. I'm not sure you're going to get one -- you're going to get
a Portofino, if you order it today.
So I think that we've had varying degrees of success with our cars, we're spoiled by the fact and
in the majority of cases, we tell you -- we tell you that the next 12 months are completely sold out.
We are not completely sold out of all the non-sports cars that we make. And so we need to work
at this really hard but obviously we're not lacking it properly, we need -- we need to get that right,
and I hopefully when you come and see us, the September we'll be able to convince you that
we're on the right -- we're on the right path to get that fixed.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Evercore `
Great. And then, a slightly cheeky one regarding Formula 1, clearly you continued to have the
engine agreement with Sauber who are now wearing the Alfa Livery. As the faster pace Ferrari
and FCA, can you shed any insights into whether there's anything in the supply contract would
suggest the Alfa should help Ferrari out where requested for example, by holding up one of your
competitors? And is there anything in the F1 regulations which would make such an increment, a
legal or not in the spirit of the rules?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
The second question that you asked is a legal question, and although I -- when I was young and
foolish, I was trained in law, I don't think, I'm in a position to answer it. I -- I think it would be morally
offensive whether it's illegal or not. I -- just to go back, what makes it interesting is that there's
absolutely no ownership connection between Ferrari and FCA other than through a common
shareholding that have up on top to exhaust. So I'm not sure that, that's enough to try and
connect the two things. I happened to be involved in both, so I'm going to stop at the end of
2018, will be my last year at FCA, so this probably will vanish, since I will no longer be responsible
for the -- for the FCA side.
It's -- I'll tell you honestly, one of the things, the best thing that I think that could happen in -- in
2018 is the -- for Ferrari to perform up to its true potential and to take on the competition and
especially, Mercedes with whom it's -- it has a love-hate relationship which is not going to back
about four, five years. But, I think it will be great if you could see a proper fight between
Mercedes and Ferrari. And I think -- the important thing for Sauber is -- I mean, they were -- they
ranked last, last year, so I -- nobody has any illusions about the fact that they're going to win thechampionship in 2018 and if they do, it's genial, but I think any significant recovery from the last
position that they have had would be helpful.
I think it's our hope that with the engine that we've provided them for 2018, they'll be in a much
better position to -- to run. I think the drivers are great drivers, I think I'm looking forward to a
great season, but I don't expect any collaboration beyond technical arguments between Ferrari
and Sauber, none will -- none of them will happen. And I will not be involved at all in the
management of the Alfa Romeo Sauber team at all, I have nothing to do with them.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Evercore `
Got it. Very clear. Well, good luck to Ferrari, and thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We'll now move to our next question from `Giulio Pescatore, Analyst, HSBC of HSBC. Please go ahead.
Q - `Giulio Pescatore, Analyst, HSBC `
Thank you for taking my question. First one would be, if you could quantify the negative FX
impact that is currently reflected in your guidance for 2018? And the second one would be, you
have moved to GT, opens up to the -- to the Chinese market, because those products are better
-- are better fit for that market. So I was wondering, what are your ambitions for -- for the growth
in China and in Greater China in particular? Thank you.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Let me deal with the Chinese issue, first. I think that we -- we have been careful about the
Chinese market, which I think you're right that -- the extreme version, the extreme incarnation of
Ferrari may not be the right product to have in China. I think we're -- more hopeful that this
development of the GT side will become -- more relevant in the Chinese market. I've no specific
number in the 2 billion that says that this is purely attributable to China. I think the geographic
distribution of Ferrari on its own will be able to guarantee as that we get 2 billion, if we get the
product right, and that to me is the more important question. On the ForEx side, I don't know
whether Alessandro wants to add anything.
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
It is something between 50 million and 70 million.
Q - `Giulio Pescatore, Analyst, HSBC `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We'll now move to our next question from `Lello Della Ragione, Analyst, Intermonte from Intermonte.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Lello Della Ragione, Analyst, Intermonte `
Hi, thank you for taking my question. Just a bit follow-up on ForEx. I didn't get if you started to
implement the new strategy in terms of pricing with the final customer already or you are
approaching it?A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
We're -- we're beginning and we started the dialog, we've had interesting discussions with our
dealers as the couple of weeks ago. But it's not built into the numbers and I think that -- that 50
million to 70 million is embedded in the number, we're going to try and recover if any shortfall on
ForEx as early as we can in '18, but I think it's a '19 or later phenomenon.
Q - `Lello Della Ragione, Analyst, Intermonte `
Okay. And the other question is that, is really the more to the 2020 ambition that you -- you had. I
was just wondering, since we've seen this with the utility vehicle for us and now with electric
vehicle. If you have some kind of let's say it about that Ferrari cannot meet. So let's say, you open
-- you paved the way for an utility vehicle now we are earning about an electric version, there is
something might be with-- something with six cylinder rather than 8 or 12, there is something that
you will not produce and you can set it right now and not change your mind on it.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
No. We're producing everything we sell. I don't know whether that was your question. Are you
asking me whether we're going to joint venture something with somebody?
Q - `Lello Della Ragione, Analyst, Intermonte `
No, no, no, no I'm just asking you at this point in time, you can exclude for reasons, the production
of a car with a smaller engine or you open --
you stated clearly about the electric one. So I was wondering, if you are willing to -- as long as you
maintain the Ferrari uniqueness to explore even other parts that you have stated in the past that
you will never produce.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
No, I think it's possible that we will downsize engines, it is quite possible.
Q - `Lello Della Ragione, Analyst, Intermonte `
Okay.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Without -- without losing anything that relates to Ferrari.
Q - `Lello Della Ragione, Analyst, Intermonte `
Sure about it. Thank you so much for the answer.
Operator
Thank you. We'll now move to our next question from `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux from Kepler Cheuvreux.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Hi, I have a couple of questions, please. First, I'd like to ask sorry, if it's -- if it's getting -- if it was
always planned to dissociate the 2022 target from the CMD, first. And second, whether it's fair toassume that 2018-2019 should show a slightly slower rate of progress than the rate of progress
you planned over 2022? Or it has been the case for instance in 2013-2014 during the previous
five years plan?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
I'm sorry, I'm -- I'm trying to give you a proper answer to the first part of your question. If it was
always my intention to.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux `
I was a surprised that you dissociated the targets for 2022 from CMD that was initially planned
from Q2, and then postponed to September or if I had missed something that it was always
planned or that's -- that's really a candid question.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
No, I don't know just, let me put your mind to rest. I'm not trying to disassociate anything from
anything. I'm just -- if you are going to show up here in Q2 or Q1 of 2018, and you are going to ask
me, how are you going to get to 2022 and make 2 billion, I can't tell you about the cars, I cannot
tell you about when I going to launch them, I can't tell you about volume and I cannot tell you
about the pricing of those vehicles, because I can't tell you anything about the product that's not
yet here. Even though I know it, I can't tell you.
And so the real issue to me is that, how do I make you -- how do I make you privy to this Ferrari
world, how do I make you understand how does machine runs. And the only way I can do this, is
by putting you through a -- by making the customer experience in connection with the launch of a
new vehicle as visible as I can, because now you've seen it all, right you're seeing what a
customer sees, when he sees the vehicle, when it's first launched, you see how the house
handles their relationship, how we nurture their relationship through the ordering process.
What it looks like to carry a through wide pricing fits. How we price for personalization, all that
stuff that we do it's designed to help you build a business model that allows you to understand
how it is that we're going to end up exceeding a 36% EBITDA number. That's -- we're trying to be
that clear, because otherwise and because of very few tile effort on your side, the Company only
that listens -- for me to show you four slides that tell you what are all the sausage parts of my 2
billion come from and you have no way of determining where there is any substance of those
sausage charts or not. I am just trying to be helpful, if you have a better idea, I'm more than
willing to listen.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux `
No, I'm very happy to come back to Maranello [ph] which I think is a great experience. Can I ask
the second question, please?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux `
I was wondering what is your thinking today on the risk of losing your small car manufacturer
status. If you go beyond the 10,000 limits, which you are likely to do probably in 2020 or 2021?A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
I'm not because of the way in which the portfolio is developing with hybrids.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Great. Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. We'll now move to our next question from `Philippe Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies from Jefferies. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Philippe Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies `
Yes, good afternoon. Thank you. I just have a more kind of general question. You continue to have
a target of net cash, and if I think about the valuation upside in your business, it's very much about
the growth, margin, return on invested capital and cash returns. And as you know from the auto
experience or other industries, the market doesn't take the net cash position. So is that kind of --
why don't you get rid of the net cash target and engage more the market in terms of a more
steady cash return to shareholders, which I think will be more attractive unless I'm missing
something and net cash position means something to you or to the business?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
One, it means nothing to me, and let's -- so let's take that issue off the table. But Philippe, then
the fault is mine, because I think that we've indicated -- I think the note was very clear, I think the
footnote was. They didn't exclude any type of capital -- capital repurchases. So there is no
recarve that I've always had this view by the way that I think we should never ever -- we should
never announce our buyback programs and trade against our market, because we're trading
against ourselves. We have authority in place now to buyback shares. We have a phenomenal
amount of support from the Board to carry out those executions. And effectively buyback capital
and I guarantee you that we will not misuse that right. We will intervene and we will do the right
thing from a capital standpoint, because I wholeheartedly agree with you, that the value of cash
on those balance sheet is 0, I mean it's just -- it's nonsensical, so we'll -- we'll get rid of it
properly, but we'll get rid of it.
Q - `Philippe Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies `
Okay, makes sense.
Operator
Thank you. We'll now move to our next question from `Michael Tyndall, Analyst, Citi from Citi. Please go ahead.
Q - `Michael Tyndall, Analyst, Citi `
Yeah, thanks for taking my questions. Just a couple from me. Mr. Marchionne, in the past you
spoke quite enthusiastically about the non-car business and it would seem that the ambitions on
that front have -- have taken a bit of a backseat in over the last couple of years. Just wondering,
when you look to that 2022 target, has it been resurrected at all or is it still very much, we're
going to focus on cars and leave everything else to one side? And then the second question is,
sorry yeah.A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
No, no, go ahead.
Q - `Michael Tyndall, Analyst, Citi `
The second question is just, I guess it's a follow-on from Philippe's question. The dividend payout
ratio went down in 2017, presumably that because you've got some serious investing to do. But
as we look out to 2022 and that 1.2 billion of free cash flow. Do you have a stated ambition in
terms of dividend payout as we roll through the plan?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
I'm looking on this, and I think that our public policy is 25 to 40, isn't it?
A - `Alessandro Gili, Chief Financial Officer `
25 to 40.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
25 to 40. So there is no wavering in that commitment, we went to the lower end of the spectrum,
because exactly for the reason that you mentioned, because we've got a heavy CapEx here, and
I got cheap, so we set-out on the table and I think we're going to come into the Board, when we
meet, that we should only be paying this level of -- of dividends and hopefully, the shareholders
will approve on accounts.
But the commitment is -- the commitment is to payout 25 to 40, and -- and if we go back to
Philippe's remarks earlier, even on capital, we need -- we need to start using the cash balance.
And having to know that in the house that has got this type of steady cash generation is
nonsense. And from a capital structure standpoint, we're just -- we're -- we're else structured. So
we need -- we need to work on this and buying back shares is a good way of doing dividend, it
helps, but I think we need to -- to sop up some capital from the marketplace that make
everybody feel more comfortable with the capital structure.
But the first question that you asked, I think is -- is interesting, because I did make a big point to
this and I continue -- I continue to make a big point of this, because if it is true that this is a true
luxury -- luxury good then I think you need to be able to find a way to express itself beyond cars.
We have been very, very careful, and we are not -- and on this I mean, John Elkann has helped a
lot, we have spent quite a bit of time interfacing with other people who play in this area,
hopefully, when we get together in September, you'll -- you'll start seeing the beginning -- the
beginning of a business, which in its full articulated form could be as -- it could be relevant and I
think it should be relevant. It is not in the numbers for 2022, which are very much car driven. But
the efforts of not stop and I think that you -- hopefully you'll see the incarnation of -- of Ferrari and
non -- in non-car in a real way when you come and see us at September, so we'll have to wait till
then.
Q - `Michael Tyndall, Analyst, Citi `
Looking -- looking forward to, thanks.
OperatorThank you. As we have no further questions, I'd like to turn the call back to Mr. `Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations for
any additional or closing remarks. Thank you.
A - `Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, everyone for joining us today. The -- the IR team will be soon available for any follow-
up question you may have. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. That will conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation, ladies and
gentlemen. You may now disconnect.