Q4 2018 Earnings Call

Operator
Welcome everyone to Ferrari Full Year 2018 Results Conference Call. I would now like to hand the
conference over to your first speaker today, Ms. `Nicoletta Russo, Head-Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations.
Thank you, and please go ahead, ma'am.
`Nicoletta Russo, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Maria, and welcome to everyone who is joining us. Today's call will be hosted by the
Group CEO, Louis Camilleri; and Group CFO, `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer. All relevant materials are
available in the Investors section of the Ferrari corporate website. And at the end of the
presentation, we will be available to answer your questions.
Before we begin, let me remind you that any forward-looking statements we might make during
today's call are subject to the risks and uncertainties mentioned in the Safe Harbor statement,
included on page 2 of today's presentation, and the call will be governed by this language.
With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Camilleri.
`Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you, Nicoletta. Good afternoon and good morning, everyone. We are obviously pleased
with our 2018 financial performance. We met or exceeded our guidance on each key metric. Of
particular note was our free cash flow performance. The Patent Box benefit we received for prior
years was clearly significant and more than offset our increased investments to deliver the
meticulously constructed pipeline of product launches that we shared with you back in
September. It was a clearly solid year in most respects.We entered 2019 as the strongest brand in the world according to Brand Finance and confident in
our ability to deliver our targets consistent with the strategies that we reviewed with you during
our Capital Markets Day last September. This confidence is despite a backdrop of uncertainty and
potential macro threats, including trade tensions, the China slowdown, Brexit, currency volatility,
and what the IMF recently euphemistically described as palpitations in financial markets.
While we would never claim to be totally immune to what is going on in the world, we are
remarkably resilient. Several factors underscore our resilience. We continue to hold a strong order
book and our order intake is firmly in line with our expectations. Furthermore, we are not
witnessing any unusual cancellations. Residual values remain solid and well within our predictions.
As you focus on our guidance for this year, you should bear in mind several factors that are
assumed therein. Our assumptions with regard to our supply of engines to Maserati reflect the
orders we have received to-date, which imply contraction in volumes of the specific engines we
supplied to them. We anticipate lower revenues and earnings from our brand diversification
activities as we begin the disciplined exit of several products and license agreements that we do
not deem to be in keeping with our brand equity. We need to get the base right before we
expand this side of the business and ensure that everything we do going forward will enhance
our brand image and grow our earnings.
While our Formula 1 performance last year was the best one since we won the World
Constructors' Championship in 2008, we fell short of our ambition to race the Winners' Cup. Our
objective going forward remains the same as it has always been, to win. In 2019, we project an
increase in spending which partially reflects this ambition but also includes the development
expenditures required to address the new technical regulations that will form part of the
envisaged Concorde Agreement that should come into force in 2021.
Given these factors, our principal business is actually performing more strongly than the
aggregate numbers would reveal at first blush. We have previously disclosed that we anticipate
an unfavorable mix impact in the first half of the year. However, I wish to stress that we project
positive mix for the full year, as the new launches hit the market, particularly in the fourth quarter
when the first shipments of the highly profitable Monza SP1 and SP2 reached our customers.
This temporary adverse mix is driven by the higher proportion of Portofino shipments and the
difficult comparison to the prior year period due to the LaFerrari Aperta. I firmly believe that the
success of the Portofino will pay dividends longer term as we view this specific model important
in terms of acquiring new clients and retaining them in the Ferrari family.
Our data reveals that over the last 10 years, the predecessors of the Portofino attracted
approximately 9,000 new clients, with close to 70% of them remaining loyal to the brand, while
30% of those have become multi-buyers. I should also mention that we anticipate at first half
modest geographic mix shift in favor of mainland China to accelerate delivery prior to the much
earlier-than-previously announced implementation of the new emissions regulations.
We have an exciting new product pipeline. Indeed, we plan the veiling of five new models this
year which augurs well for 2020. As we have previously stated, these models do not only allow us
to penetrate new attractive segments, but also provide the opportunity to leverage our pricing
power. We've also planned a number of in-market client activities that will allow us to attract new
customers and retain existing ones. An important development will be the release this year of a
state-of-the-art CRM tool to enhance our ongoing interactions and relationships with our
worldwide dealer network and our customers. This tool will further improve our customers' Ferrari
experience in a personalized manner.Finally, as disclosed at our Capital Markets Day, we have commenced our €1.5 billion share
repurchase program over the 2019 to 2022 period. And subject to board and shareholder
approval, we'll announce an increase in our dividend in April, reflecting an adjusted net earnings
payout ratio of 30%.
On that note, I will now pass the call to Antonio who will provide you with a detailed review of our
full year results for 2018 and our guidance for the current year on our key performance metrics.
Antonio?
`Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Louis, and good afternoon to everyone. Let me begin with page 5. As Louis just said,
our 2018 earnings were in line with or better than our 2018 guidance with industrial free cash flow
generation of €405 million including a €120 million positive cash impact from the Patent Box
benefit for 2015-2017. Our shipment increased by 853 units versus prior year, mainly supported
by the 812 Superfast and the Ferrari Portofino.
Group net revenues for 2018 increased by a few million to €3.42 billion, up 0.1% at current
currency and up 3.2% at constant currency. Our adjusted EBITDA was over €1.1 billion, improving
by 7.5% at current currency and by 16.8% at constant. EBITDA margin was 32.6%, up to 130 basis
points versus prior year. Adjusted diluted EPS, when excluding the €141 million profit and loss
benefit from the Patent Box related to three years 2015-2017 and other minor adjustment, was up
20.6% to a record level of €3.4. Net industrial debt at the end of December after €100 million of
share repurchases reached €340 million versus €473 million at December 31, 2017.
Let's turn to shipments on page 6. Total shipments increased by 10.2% versus prior year
supported by a 19.6% increase in V12 and a 7.3% increase in V8. The performance was led by the
812 Superfast, as well as the ramp up of the Ferrari Portofino and the 488 Pista. On the other end,
the 488 Pista Spider is yet to arrive on the market and LaFerrari Aperta finished its limited series
run. Growth in shipments across all the regions. EMEA grew 13.1%. Americas showed a 6.7%
increase. China, Hong Kong and Taiwan were up 12.6%. Rest of APAC was 7.8%.
Moving to page 7, on group net revenues, we see how they increased by 3.2% at constant
currency from €3,390,000 in 2017 to €3,498,000 in 2018 at 2017 exchange rates, net of hedges.
Car and spare parts revenues, totaling €2.6 billion, were up 6.9% at constant currency, thanks to
higher volumes already commented. Pricing and personalization programs positively contributed
along with deliveries of the Ferrari J50 and the FXX K EVO, partially offset by lower sales of
LaFerrari Aperta. The erosion of the engines revenues was €89 million at constant currency,
reflecting lower shipments to Maserati.
Revenues from sponsorship, commercial and brand were €516 million and grew by 5.3% at
constant currency thanks to the stronger contribution from sponsorships as well as higher
championship ranking, partially offset by lower sales generated by other brand-related activities.
Currency including translation and transactions impact as well as foreign currency hedges has a
negative impact of €105 million, bringing 2018 group net revenues at current currency to
€3,420,000, still a few million up.
On page 8, you can see the year-over-year changes in the main items of the adjusted EBIT. As
mentioned, the latter was up 6.4% to €825 million with adjusted EBIT margin of 24.1% and
adjusted EBITDA margin reaching 32.6%, up 230 basis points. At constant currency, adjusted EBIT
grew by 19% to €890 million, while adjusted EBITDA increased to 16.8% to €1.179 billion. Volume
was up €118 million thanks to the 812 Superfast, the ramp-up of the Ferrari Portofino as well as theMix and price was negative due to the combined impact of lower sales of LaFerrari Aperta and
the strong increase of the Ferrari Portofino. This was partially offset by the solid performance of
the 812 Superfast, pricing, and deliveries of the Ferrari J50 as well as the FXX K EVO. As we move
the contribution from personalization programs from volume to mix and price, the latter would
have been positive. This is a change we will adopt starting from Q1 2019 due to the intrinsic
enrichment nature of personalization.
Industrial costs and R&D slightly decreased mainly due to lower spending in Formula 1 activities.
SG&A costs were mostly in line with prior year. Other increased by €36 million, thanks to stronger
and already commented revenues from sponsorship, higher 2017 championship ranking
compared to 2016 as well as a final favorable ruling on a prior year's legal dispute as announced
in Q1 2018. This was partially offset by a lower contribution from other brand-related activities and
engines supplied to Maserati.
Moving to page 9, industrial free cash flow for the year was €405 million, essentially driven by the
strong EBITDA, just partially offset by CapEx spending of €637 million to support the evolution
and the hybridization of our product range and €88 million of taxes. Just as a reminder, tax paid
includes the already commented positive cash impact from the Patent Box benefit for 2015 to
2017 equal to €120 million out of a total €141 million benefit to the P&L. Net industrial debt at the
end of December 2018 after €100 million share repurchases reached €340 million.
On page 9 (sic) [10] , you can finally read the group targets for 2019. We aim to continue our
trajectory of growth with net revenues above €3.5 billion with a growth rate in excess of 3%. As
Louis just said, growth will be mostly driven by cars and spare parts thanks to the ramp-up of the
newly launched products. GT, sports and special series are expected to account for
approximately one-third of the total volumes each. The Ferrari Monza will only marginally
contribute starting from Q4 2019. Total shipments will approach 10,000 units in 2019.
Adjusted EBITDA growing approximately 10% and reaching between €1.2 billion and €1.25 billion.
The high quality profitability growth is expected to be driven by volume as well as overall positive
mix accruing in the second half. This will be partially offset by SG&A to support business
development. Adjusted EBIT between €0.85 billion and €0.9 billion which means approximately
6% growth versus 2018 as a result of growing G&A. Adjusted diluted EPS between €3.5 and €3.7.
As a reminder, 2019 net result includes the Patent Box benefits for its last year.
Roughly €450 million of industrial free cash flow generation will be supported by a robust
adjusted EBITDA as well as the advances from the Ferrari Monza partially offset by CapEx
increased to approximately €750 million mainly to fuel the evolution and the hybridization of our
product range. Again, as a reminder, the Patent Box will benefit the concentration by lowering tax
cash out. Just as a final remark, please note that the above guidance assumes foreign exchange
scenario broadly in line with the average for 2018.
With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Nicoletta.
`Nicoletta Russo, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Antonio. We are now ready to start the Q&A session.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. Our first question comes from the line of `Michael Binetti, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC from Credit Suisse. PleaseQ - `Michael Binetti, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
Hi. Thanks for taking our question. Good afternoon, everybody. Congrats on a nice year, Louis, to
start off your time at Ferrari. Could you – would you mind helping orient us back to the framework
you gave us at the Capital Markets Day on EPS and free cash flow. So I think the 2019 EPS
guidance you laid out today, €3.50-€3.70, is above the 2020 EPS that you gave of €3.40-€3.50
and then free cash guide this year I think is about €450 million but you originally said I think €400
million for 2020.
So I know there's moving parts and I know you know maybe you're getting a lot of deposits today
on things like Monza but I would assume the pace of launch as you just laid out today you'll still be
collecting deposits next year. So, I don't understand why margins would be flat or free cash flow
conversion would slow next year. Maybe you can help just kind of reorient us between the 2019
guidance we now have clarity on and what you gave for 2020.
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Well, thank you for your question, Michael. I think the easiest way to explain that is that we were
certainly focused on our 2022 targets in the Capital Markets Day and we felt that we should give
you a sort of midpoint in 2020 to guide the speed at which we would reach those targets. I
mean, clearly, given our 2019 guidance and clearly the sense that we have is we're very bullish on
the business, I would say that 2020 is probably on the low side of the range but that is something
we clearly would give you next year when we finalize our 2020 guidance. But as I say, we felt that
it was important to give you a sort of midpoint between 2018, 2020 and 22 but we will firmly – the
slope of growth may obviously accelerate. I hope that's helpful.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
Very helpful. Thank you. And then if I could just follow that quickly, it was really helpful to see that
the presentation of five new cars coming this year. How do we orient back also to the 15 new cars
that you mentioned at the Capital Markets Day? How many of the four cars you laid out in the
slide deck from 2018 count towards that 15, and how many, I guess, of the five new models – they
would all be counting towards that 15 cars that you're going to be launching by 2022?
And then with a little bit of time gone by, any color you might offer on the models – the five new
models which is a very fast pace coming this year between V8, V12, specials, any kind of color you
might want to add at this point as we're getting closer?
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Well, as you know, we like to surprise everyone with our new models. What we said, if you recall,
at the Capital Markets Day was that we would launch at least four a year. So the five for this year
is essentially in line with that. So you can expect going forward, basically for a year, at one year,
there will be three because we're doing five this year. So it really was modeled from 2019 going
forward to 2022.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
Okay. Thank you very much.
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you.Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Jonas from Morgan Stanley. Thank you, and
please go ahead.
Q - `Adam Michael Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Thanks, everybody, and thanks, Louis. Two questions. First, Ferrari is an exclusive, ultra-exclusive
luxury product that does, at some level, contribute to climate change. When do you expect to
launch the first all-electric Ferrari?
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Good question Adam. First of all, I would argue with the premise of your question, in the sense
that, first of all, yes, I agree that we are a hyper luxury product and company. You should see the
emissions per mileage because the mileage of Ferrari usage is actually pretty low and that's
something that one should give consideration to. I think the data I looked was the average
kilometers was only about 4,000 kilometers a year. In terms of moving towards hybridization, as
we said at the Capital Markets Day, we expect that 60% of our portfolio will be hybrid. And I think
we also said that beyond the time period, i.e. beyond 2022, you will see fully electric Ferraris. I
won't give you a date yet but you can expect one in the period following 2022.
Q - `Adam Michael Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Thanks, Louis. And I might imagine I think that some of the costs for that product might have
been accounted for in the 2022 to plan. Correct me if I'm wrong.
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
No, you are correct.
Q - `Adam Michael Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Okay. Okay. And just a follow-up. According to Google Maps, Louis, the drive from Maranello to
Modena is 16.5 kilometers. Is there any logic in a potential combination between Ferrari and
Maserati? Thank you.
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
I don't think so. As you know, historically, they were combined at one point. My own sense is that
Ferrari benefits from total focus and adding another brand would be a distraction. And frankly,
we're very focused on implementing the plan that we divulged to you at the Capital Markets Day.
So focus is something that's critical and our plate is pretty full.
Q - `Adam Michael Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Thanks, Louis.
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you.
OperatorYour next question comes from the line of Max Warburton from Bernstein. Thank you. And please
ask your question.
Q - `Max Eliot Adair Warburton, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. `
Yeah. Hi. It's Max Warburton from Bernstein. Two questions, please, the first on product; the
second, a financial question. On product, at the Capital Markets event last year, Mr. Galliera was
talking about a new mid-engine supercar that I think he was suggesting will be unveiled this year.
My question is does that go into production this year? Should we think about a mix enhancing car
above and beyond the 812 Monza during this calendar year? I'll come back with the final question,
please.
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
You're right. Enrico mentioned a car in the range that had supercar performance. That will be
unveiled this year. The sales – actual sales hitting the market will be in early 2020. So they do not
affect the 2019 numbers, but clearly will have a big impact on the 2020 numbers. We anticipate
that the margin on that model will be considerably superior to the one on 812.
Q - `Max Eliot Adair Warburton, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. `
Got it. And Louis, just to confirm, this is the...
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Does that answer your question?
Q - `Max Eliot Adair Warburton, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. `
It does. Can I be greedy and have a follow-on on the product question? Is it a series production
guide, will have a full normal production lifecycle?
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yes.
Q - `Max Eliot Adair Warburton, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. `
Okay. Thank you. And then just on the financials, really I guess the question for Antonio, could I be
reminded of what this item is in the net industrial debt calculation? I'm looking at slide 17. This
funded self-liquidating financial receivables portfolio, bit of a mouthful, can you just remind us
what it is exactly? And is there any way (27:42) can forecast it?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, it's just the Inter segment if you wish financing to the financial services arm that we own in
United States.
Q - `Max Eliot Adair Warburton, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. `
Okay. And can you just explain how does it square with the net debt walk that you show on page
9? Is it relevant to that? Is there an interaction I need to understand?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `Yeah. In net debt walk, you see it deducted in the other column, in the FX and other.
Q - `Max Eliot Adair Warburton, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. `
Okay. So – okay.
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
The number we show, Max, is a net industrial debt...
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah.
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
...including the financials.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Correct.
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Because most of it is securitized.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
And part of that are financed by the industrial companies as you may imagine.
Q - `Max Eliot Adair Warburton, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Does that clarify the point?
Q - `Max Eliot Adair Warburton, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. `
It does, yes. Thank you.
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you, Max.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch from Bank of America. Please ask your
question.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hi. Good afternoon, guys. Just to stay on the product discussion here and the five new models
going to be launched this year. Triangulating what you just answered to Max and some of the stuff
you said at the Capital Markets Day, it appears we're going to get sort of a lot of informationthink about this, and we all get a little bit twisted between mix and price, but it sounds like we're
going to see mix and price improvements that may be a little bit better than is expected,
particularly given your last answer about that, that product would have a much higher margin than
normal. Are these going to be much more impactful products than we've seen in the past?
And as you think, Louis, about the opportunity on price, is it much more on putting out a better
product and taking price that goes along with that, rewarding the customer with better product
but rewarding yourself with better pricing and margin? And is that how we should more think
about things going forward and there might be a real step up that's coming?
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
That clearly is our ambition and I think we will have the products that enable us to do that. As I
said in my opening remarks, new models allow us to penetrate new segments and also allow us
to really use the pricing leverage that we have. So we have various arrows to use and we intend
to do so. But price mix over time, as we always said that, we would privilege revenue over
volume and we would privilege mix over value. Having said that, we do intend to enter the GT
segment as we said at the Capital Markets Day. So it will be a mixture of the two, but we are very,
very focused on our margins.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. But would it be fair to say that sort of the standard thought process of maybe 3% to 5%
price increases is a little bit too conservative and as products are being replaced with new better
powertrain products and more exciting products that it could be significantly better than that on
product replacements? Is that a fair statement?
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
I think that's a relatively fair statement in the sense that the lifecycle of some of our models is
reaching their end and that they'll be replaced and the replacements, which we're very excited
about, will allow us to increase prices on those specific models.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. That's very helpful. Then just one last question. When we think about the Maserati engine
business, sounding like it's going to underperform a little bit in 2019 and going forward, it's tough
to call that kind of stuff. Is there any way that you could repurpose some of that capacity for some
of your future product? And obviously, it wouldn't be like-for-like. But I'm just thinking about sort
of thrifting and being sort of capital disciplined here. Is there an opportunity to kind of shift some
of that in the other direction to your core products?
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Well, as we anticipate the growth, clearly, the main impact is that should the Maserati engines
continue to decline or actually stay flat longer term, we're able to move people, trained
employees from the Maserati engine business to the car manufacturing business. So, in fact, total
head count can remain essentially flat as we increase our production volume. But, again, it is
somewhat dependent on the orders we will receive going forward from Maserati.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great. Thank you very much.A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from Philippe Houchois from Jefferies. Thank you. Please
ask your question.
Q - `Philippe Jean Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd. `
Thank you. Good afternoon. Question maybe for Antonio. Back in September, you showed us that
CapEx plan guided to €650 million CapEx in 2018. You came in slightly below that. The chart
suggested significant step up in 2019. But if I look at your earnings or your cash flow guidance, it
looks like that's maybe a bit aggressive. So I'm just wondering would you be kind enough to give
us a euro amount for that 2019 CapEx?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, you put that in the – I think in terms of the size of this CapEx, it's substantially in line with
what we had in mind, what we presented you at the Capital Market Day. The cash flow guidance
is based substantially on this following region that is EBITDA less CapEx is more or less in line with
the free cash flow for the year having all the rest offsetting each other, meaning changing
working capital, taxes that, please remind, are benefiting from the Patent Box once more in 2019
and financial charges are offset by the advances we get on the Monza.
Q - `Philippe Jean Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd. `
Yeah. And...
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Philippe, I think you may have missed Antonio in his remarks actually gave you a number, which
was €750 million. Is that what you're looking for?
Q - `Philippe Jean Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd. `
Right. That's what I was looking for to make sense and (34:37).
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
I'm sorry, I didn't get you. I apologize, Philippe.
Q - `Philippe Jean Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd. `
Yeah, that's fine.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
It's €750 million. Correct.
Q - `Philippe Jean Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd. `
Right. If I can squeeze another one, more on the Purosangue, the SUV that may not be an SUV,
we will find out in a few years, but we're six months after the Capital Markets Day, almost. You'veseen bit more activity, the Urus at Lamborghini, the market in general. Do you feel more
confident, less confident towards moving Ferrari into that kind of product direction based on what
we've seen in the market?
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Well, with all due respect to Lamborghini, what we have in mind is something that's clearly rather
superior to what's on the market today. And we're still on track for what we said at the Capital
Markets Day.
Q - `Philippe Jean Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd. `
Thank you very much.
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you, Philippe.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Giulio Pescatore, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG from HSBC. Thank you.
Please ask your question.
Q - `Giulio Pescatore, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
Hi. Thank you for taking my question. So, two if I may. The first one on the Pista and the phase-out
on the 488, how should we think about the impact of the two replacing each other on volumes,
revenue and perhaps also margins? The second one more financial related. I'm still a bit surprised
on the free cash flow guidance. Maybe I expected it to be a little bit higher given the deposits
you're going to get on the Monza. So maybe can you clarify what will be the phasing of the
deposits? What is the proportion that you will get into this year?
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Well, clearly, as I said earlier, the 488 is reaching the end of its life cycle. And the Pista is incredibly
successful and sold out. The Spider will start selling in the second quarter. But orders are
essentially all done. On the cash flow, I'll let Antonio address that.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. Hi, Giulio. And I think the answer I already gave to the previous question is probably the
guideline for our free cash flow in 2019. I think the way we see it is basically that, as I said, the
EBITDA less CapEx provide for the balance of the free cash flow. And we expect the advances on
the Monza to be offset by genuine working capital and the rest. I think the point here that you ask
is, which is the proportion of the advance that we are going to have in 2018. Actually, we won't
give you a specific number on that. We are finalizing the contract. And as I said, as a rule of
thumb, we assume that formula that I just told you.
Q - `Giulio Pescatore, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you.Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA from Equita. Thank you. Please
ask your question.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `
Yeah. Thank you. Good morning, good afternoon, everybody. The first question is on volumes
because in 2018, they were up 10%. For the current year, you gave an indication of an additional
8% growth. This is a significant jump compared to the historical growth trend. So, should we
assume a similar underlying trend going forward?
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Well as Antonio said, we should be approaching 10,000. We may actually cross that line this year.
But going forward, I think as we said earlier, we will very much focus on revenues and margins
rather than volumes. So I wouldn't anticipate that the volume growth would continue ad infinitum
at that sort of pace.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `
Okay, because I was wondering...
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Did I answer your question?
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `
Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. I was wondering if this jump in volume growth could have affected the
waiting list in the medium-term and continuing with such a trend.
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Sorry, I couldn't really hear your question. You're concerned about?
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `
No. I was concerned in case of cost and close to double-digit growth that the waiting lists could
have been eroded instead of being the usual 18, 24 months, but this shouldn't be the case. So
could you remind us what are the implications in terms of penalties and some that you have to
pay for the threshold – the €10,000 threshold when you pass this threshold?
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
It's not significant. It's sort of high-single digit millions. But I mean, the more important point is
volumes relative to the order book and the exclusivity. Rest assured, we are very, very focused on
that and as you'll see the new models coming out and the pricing associated with those models
and the technology and innovation and design features, you'll understand better how focused we
are on brand image and exclusivity.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `
Okay. And very last on the R&D capitalization, if you could provide us what is the balance for 2018
and what is implied in your guidance for 2019 in terms of balance between capitalization andamortization?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. Out of the €637 million capital expenditure for 2018, capitalized R&D is probably 50% of
total, so it's €318 million. In 2019 budget, we expect more or less the same proportion.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `
And the net balance between the amortization and the capitalization?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
(41:07).
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `
Sorry, should be zero?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
No. The net balance – sorry maybe, I didn't get your question. Can you please repeat?
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `
Yeah. Just you mentioned there what is the amount of the capitalized R&D. But taking into
account the amortization of the capitalized R&D of the previous years you in the past a quarter,
you had...
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
The amortization of the R&D is approximately €120 million, slightly less than that.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `
This is for 2018?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
For 2018, yes.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `
And is it growing, I suppose, in 2019?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. With the pace of the capital expenditure.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Welcome.Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA from Kepler Cheuvreux.
Thank you. And please ask your question.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA `
Thank you very much. I have two quick questions on your EBIT bridge, please. Can you say a few
words about the evolution of industrial cost and R&D in the context of about 20% increase in your
volumes between 2018 and 2019? Both SG&A and industrial cost on R&D had been as almost
maintained. Can you actually explain how you do that and what we should expect for 2019? That
is the first question.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
What we expect in terms of the development of SG&A for 2019 is an increase, as I mentioned in
my comments, while we expect R&D expenses to be more or less in line with 2018.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA `
Okay. Can you talk about the FX impact to a way we should anticipate for 2019? It has been more
negative than what I had in mind for 2018. Is it going to be more neutral in 2019 or again a
headwind?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
As I said in my comments, the targets we have discussed, disclosed today are based on the
assumption that delve at all throughout the year, the foreign exchange scenario is more or less in
line with the one we have seen in 2018.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA `
Which would mean the full neutral effect on your bridge?
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Correct.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Neutral.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA `
Thank you. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Raghav Gupta from Citi. Please ask your question.
Q - `Raghav Gupta-Chaudhary, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Thank you. Good afternoon. I just wanted to shift the conversation a bit to non-car revenue side.
You gave the repeat details at the CMD because the strategy was not finalized and you were still
developing a framework, I think, where you were – have you had sufficient time to think about thisand how might you leverage the brand to generate additional profit for Ferrari? That's the first
one. Thank you.
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Well, thank you for that question. Clearly, it's still work in progress. We are finalizing the strategy.
There's been a lot of work done. And the first step is cleaning up what we have, as I mentioned in
my opening remarks. So in fact, we are sort of cleaning up the portfolio, taking out various
products that have our brand on it and also terminating some license agreements. And of that
base, we will then grow. My sense is that by this summer, we will have a very clear strategy and
we will be focused on execution.
Q - `Raghav Gupta-Chaudhary, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Okay. So we can expect perhaps something on that in Q3 in terms of an announcement of the
strategy, is that fair, in terms of timing?
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yes, that's fair.
Q - `Raghav Gupta-Chaudhary, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Okay great and then, Mr. Camilleri, I heard what you said in your opening remarks about residual
values remaining solid and then kind of within your prediction. I was just really hoping to press a
little bit more on this. When I look at classic car pricing, it seems to have come under a bit of
pressure. What impact is this having if it all on your interactions with customers?
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
None. Residuals that we look at across the globe are essentially in line with our expectations. I
don't know what you're looking at in terms of classics, but the results I've seen in auctions of –
recent auctions in terms of classics, the prices have held up pretty well and some prices have
actually, for certain models, hit record levels.
Q - `Raghav Gupta-Chaudhary, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Okay. All right. And then on the patent book can I just have a quick clarification in terms of what
impact you're expecting for 2019, please? It's on the P&L, sorry.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
I think we already – yeah. Yeah. Sure.
Q - `Raghav Gupta-Chaudhary, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
It's on the P&L.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
You may assume in the region of €50 million more or less in line with the impact on 2018, P&L,
okay.
Q - `Raghav Gupta-Chaudhary, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `Perfect. Perfect. Thank you very much.
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (UK) from Société Générale.
Please ask your question.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (UK) `
Yes, thank you. Good afternoon. I have some questions still on accounting. Obviously, we don't
yet have a full account. I think it's going to come out in about three weeks' time so if you can just
take a bit deeper into some of those numbers again, please. Going back to the question about
cash R&D, could you confirm what the figure was for cash R&D? Because I think the fit you gave
was for capital expenditure, the €637 million. So how much was actually the cash R&D spending in
2018? And then if you could then confirm how much was capitalized R&D against that figure? That
will be the first question.
My second question is, is there anything – what are the determinants of the launch of the Monza?
You've mentioned that it is Q4 this year. Is there any technical reason or limitation that might
prevent you from making – bringing that forward into earlier quarters? And finally, could you
confirm now that the Aperta, the last Apertas have now been sold as appears to be indicated by
the presentation? Thank you.
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Sorry, what was your last question?
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (UK) `
About the Aperta. If the last Apertas have now been sold as appears to be indicated by the
presentation?
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yes. So let me start with three, two, and then Antonio will hit one. So yeah, La Aperta is finished,
done, history.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (UK) `
Great.
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
In terms of the Monza SP1 and SP2, it's the fourth quarter essentially because, as you knew, we
said at the Capital Markets Day we're building a new production line for that pillar and Monza SP1
and SP2 are the first ones. I would say that we're focused on Q4 in terms of production and sales
because it's actually a very complex car to manufacture in terms of craftsmanship. So, there's a
lot of new things and a lot of handmade carbon fiber pieces that require a lot of training to get
them precise to meet our specifications. So that's really the main reason why we see that sales
will commence in Q4 rather than earlier.And then Antonio will hit your question on R&D.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Capitalized R&D, as I already said before, is $318 million in 2018. And R&D costs, so hitting
the P&L is $528 million. So total cash R&D is the sum of the two.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (UK) `
Sorry, can you repeat the figure again? You said $528 million?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, $318 million capitalized R&D, $528 million R&D costs.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (UK) `
And the amortization was $120 million?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
And the amortization, the precise number is $115 million.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (UK) `
$115 million. Thank you very much.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Welcome.
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Adam Hull, Analyst, MainFirst Bank AG (UK) from MainFirst. Please ask your
question.
Q - `Adam Hull, Analyst, MainFirst Bank AG (UK) `
Hi. Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my questions. Two. Digging a little bit deeper on the free
cash flow in the mid-term, firstly on Patent Box, what is the cash tax benefit you're assuming in
your 2019 cash flow guidance of $450 million? And if any, is there more coming in 2020? And
could you just repeat that net – that tax benefit for the P&L in 2019? I may have misheard that.
And then question two, really, looking to your free cash flow, if I look at 2018, I look at the $405
million, take out $120 million, Patent Box is $285 million, 8% free cash flow margin, that's very
different from what you're guiding in a sense in 2022 when your €1.1 billion to €1.25 billion free
cash flow. That seems to be out of 22%, 25% free cash flow margins are kind of triple in a sense
what you did in 2018. Is there something odd particularly about 2022 or are you thinking that you
can be doing more than €1 billion free cash flow in to the kind of the early 2020s or so? Just
seems a very big difference between sort of 8% and into sort of 22% to 25%? Thanks.Okay. In terms of the – maybe I'll start from the last one, so you may remind me your previous
ones. I think the difference between 2018 and 2022 is that 2018 start reflecting the impact of the
capital expenditure. If you really remind our – even if we didn't give specific guidance on CapEx, if
you look at the charts we've shown at the time, you'll see the CapEx going down slightly towards
the end of 2022. And on top of that, there is impact of the introduction of some of the Iconas
that we described as becoming a more relevant pillar. So the overall impact is that one.
Then, as far as 2018, if I recall correctly, I said already what the benefits on the Patent Box is, €120
million. We anticipate the cash benefit of the Patent Box in 2019 to be in the region of €100
million. And then this amount to be reduced in 2020. Remind you that, as of now, we are
expecting the Patent Box benefit to be an event terminated in – sorry, not an event, but a benefit
terminated in 2019. Therefore, cash wise should be a positive for 2020. I don't know whether I
missed something among your questions.
Q - `Adam Hull, Analyst, MainFirst Bank AG (UK) `
If I could just follow-up, you gave us those two numbers for cash R&D which we then add up. So,
as we look at cash R&D, how is that looking in terms of 2019 and 2020? And just maybe help us a
little bit on the P&L impact in terms of what the capitalizing rate will be, so what the cash R&D
spending will be, so I guess it was roughly €50 million last year. How does that look in the next
two years in the cash R&D and also what sort of rate of capitalizing of that overall cash R&D
number would be? Thank you.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Maybe I can try and answer this way. I already said that we expect the R&D charge in the P&L to
be more or less in line with 2018. There will be some more spending on, I'd say, on the new cars
coming in for the Formula 1 activities, may be offset by something else, some other on the, let's
say, cars manufacturing activity. In terms of the rate of capitalization, probably is not the way we
describe it. Certainly, there is – going in 2019, there is still an amount of R&D spending within the
CapEx that is significant because we have a lot of the preparation for the hybridization and
introduction of new vehicles, that explains that. The average ratio you may imagine is 80/20 in
terms of product being 80% and most of that is R&D, 20% being infrastructure and anything
related to the manufacturing tools.
Q - `Adam Hull, Analyst, MainFirst Bank AG (UK) `
Okay. Thanks for that. Thank you.
Operator
And your last question comes from the line of `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC from JPMorgan. Please ask your
question.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Hi, thanks for squeezing me in. I'd like to follow-up on your comments regarding the brand
licensing arrangements. It sounds like you want to be more selective in terms of the
arrangements. At the same time, this has been identified as a potential growth area for Ferrari in
the future. So, can you sort of talk little bit about these brand-related activities you're pruning and
then which activities you're maybe looking to increase in coming years? What are the attributes
that make a licensing arrangement attractive to you, profit wise or from the perspective of brandvalue in comparison to some of the ones you're letting it roll off? And how should we think about
the financial impact of your strategy with regard to sponsorship, commercial and brand initiatives?
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Well, as I said earlier, that strategy is being finalized, Ryan. I would say that, walk into a Ferrari
store today and it's obvious that some of the products do not fit our brand image and our luxury
positioning. So, going forward, you can expect things that fit much more in terms of our
customers, in terms of the premium products that they would enjoy. We gave you actually a
couple of examples at the Capital Markets Day. We have a new license agreement with Berluti in
terms of leather shoes, which is doing extremely well and Berluti is very pleased with that. And
we also had the agreement with Loro Piana in terms of the racing suits and the helmet.
So there are things that we want to offer our customers, which appeals to them and this clearly
demands for that kind of product. And essentially, if you look at it from a client perspective, that is
the Tifosi who will would want Ferrari-branded materials and that we will retain, but we will
announce that quality, that is obviously our customers and clients around the cars, and there's a
whole field of entertainment which we feel is something that we can be part of. So really those
are the three essential segments from a customer point of view.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
I see. Thanks. That's helpful. And then just finally another question on the Purosangue, I'm curious
what has been the customer reaction to the announcement. Of course, the vehicle is still in
development, not launched for some time. It's probably quite early, but can you share since the
time of your Investor Day the degree to which your existing customer base has maybe
approached you indicating potential interest in this type of a vehicle?
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
I would say that the reactions have been very positive from both the dealer network and the
clients. Clearly, they want to see the product but they trust us, but it is a segment that clearly is
growing and a lot of clients would love to have a Purosangue to use on a daily basis. So the
reaction has been very positive and, actually, nobody seems to be sort of concerned that it would
somehow dilute the Ferrari brand image. On the contrary, it would complement it.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Much appreciated. Thank you.
A - `Louis C. Camilleri, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you, Ryan.
Operator
Thank you. There are no further question at this time. Please continue, Ms. Nicoletta.
A - `Nicoletta Russo, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, everyone, for joining us today. If you have any further question, the IR team will be
soon available. Thank you.
OperatorThank you. That does conclude our conference for today. Thank you all for participating. You may
all disconnect. Speakers, please stand by.