Q4 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Ferrari 2020 Full Year
Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speaker
presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) For your
information, this conference is being recorded.
Now I would like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, `Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations. Please go
ahead.
`Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Andrea and welcome to everyone who is joining us. There are two topics that we plan
to cover today: first, the group's full year 2020 operating results and then our full year 2021
guidance. In light of this, the duration of the call is expected to be around 60 minutes. Today's call
will be hosted by the group Chairman and Acting CEO, Mr.John Elkann and our group's CFO,
Mr.Antonio Piccon. All relevant materials are available in the Investors section of the Ferrari
corporate website. At the end of the presentation, we will be available to answer your questions.
Before we begin, let me remind you that any forward-looking statements we might make during
today's call are subject to the risks and uncertainties mentioned in the Safe Harbor statement
included on Page 2 of today's presentation and the call will be governed by this language.
With that said, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.John Elkann.
`John Philip Elkann, Executive Chairman of the Board, Interim Chief Executive Officer `
Grazie Nicoletta. Good morning and afternoon to all. I would like to start thanking all of my
colleagues in Ferrari for the remarkable results in 2020, a testament to the strength sof our
business model and resilience of our core business. In fact, we exceeded full-year guidance on allmetrics in 2020. These results have been achieved factoring the impacts of COVID-19 on all of
our activities. This environment gave us the opportunity to learn more about our strengths and
weaknesses, which allowed us to further fortify our company for the future. 2020 has also been
characterized by the successful digital unveiling of the Ferrari Portofino M, SF90 Spider and 488
GT Modificata. Today, we have the most beautiful, most innovative and widest product range in
our history.
I would like to highlight some of our achievements that we are particularly proud of. Back on
Track, which is Ferrari's program to safeguard the health of our employees in a COVID-19
secured environment, which has become a reference in Italy and around the world? Equal salary
certificate, in July, we were the first Italian company awarded in recognition of the same
compensation amongst women and men for equivalent roles and jobs testifying our commitment
to create an inclusive and diverse working environment and social responsibility in helping with
different activities during this pandemic crisis.
I'll just mention a few which we are particularly proud of. We launched with our clients a
fundraising matching all of their donations to support the medical staff and the health system of
our community in Maranello and surroundings. We joined forces with the Italian Institute of
Technology to present the open source project FI5, a revolutionary low cost and lightweight
pulmonary ventilator. And lastly, during the seven weeks closure of the factory, we did not use any
state aid program and continued to pay full salaries of all of our employees.
2020 was also a year of celebration: Our 1,000th Grand Prix, the highest number in Formula 1
ever reached our victories in the GP racing season. And we reached over 2.5 million visitors in our
Esports series. But our 2020 Formula 1 results reminded us that a great past doesn't equate to a
great present or future. This painful reality both for ourselves and our fans is that from which we
must restart with humility focusing on what will make us competitive and ultimately lead to
winning.
As we enter into 2021, which Antonio will give you more details about, we continue to work on our
product plan for this exciting decade ahead, adapting it to a fast evolving environment. Our
journey to carbon neutrality will provide a wider framework for our future. We are working on a
clear plan including Formula 1 to become carbon neutral through actions taken directly and
indirectly within this decade. We are optimistic about the opportunities ahead of us and look
forward sharing and discussing the future of Ferrari for this decade at our Capital Markets Day in
the first half of 2022.
Now let me address the CEO succession. We have established as a board a search committee,
which is responsible for a process to identify the right successor to Louis Camilleri and we want to
take the necessary time to find the best possible CEO for our company. On this note, I would like
to express my most sincere thank you to Louis who is listening on our call today for his personal
commitment as our CEO since 2018 and as a member of our Board since 2015. His passion for
Ferrari is and has been limitless.
Under his leadership, the company has further affirmed its position as one of the world's greatest
companies. Louis built a leadership team that is continuing to propel our company forward as our
results demonstrate and for which I am personally grateful to him and to all of my colleagues at
Ferrari.
I now hand over the call to Antonio who will review our full-year 2020 results and 2021 guidance.
Since our strategy remains unchanged and our execution of it is on track, he will also directly
manage the Q&A session. I would like to thank you all and pass it over to Antonio.`Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Mr.Chairman and good morning or afternoon to everyone who is joining us today, I
start from Page 6 where you can see the highlights of 2020 results, which exceeded our latest
guidance in these difficult times, driven by very strong fourth quarter results. This was achieved
on the back of the strength of our core business, improved Formula 1 revenues, tshe cost
containment actions deployed during the year and a tailwind from foreign exchange compared to
our projections.
Our shipments in 2020 were 9,119 units, approximately 10% less than prior year, in line with our
production planning. Group net revenues were EUR3,460 million, down 8.1% compared to prior
year, driven by lower deliveries as well as lower Formula 1 and brand revenues. EBITDA came in at
EUR 1,143 million, down 10% with a margin of 33%. It is worth noting that the EBITDA margin in our
core business was better in 2019. EBIT was EUR716 million, down 21.9%, embedding higher D&A.
Adjusted net profit was EUR534 million, down 23.5% versus 2019 and resulting in an adjusted
diluted EPS of EUR2.88 versus EUR3.71 of prior year. The adjusted figures reflected the tax benefit
with no cash impact on 2020 as a result of the one-off partial step up of the trademark book
value in accordance with Italian tax regulations. Industrial free cash flow for the year was EUR172
million. What you can see in this chart are the fundamental dynamics underlying our business.
We have recorded strong order intake since summer 2020 fueled by the resumed commercial
activities and the new product unveiling. As a result, on a yearly basis, we ended that with a net
order intake very much in line with 2019 despite a very different environment and the trend
continued in January. The order book is at record level up 22% versus last year and covering the
entire 2021 and beyond. Should we discount the effect of the production loss due to COVID-19, it
would be up to nearly 10%.
Cancellations remained well within our average experience and were actually lower than in 2019.
Residuals are holding up well on the back of the growth of pre-owned transaction volumes. This
happened notwithstanding the challenges and thanks to the effectiveness in reshaping the way
we engage with customers through a mix of in-person and digital events, digital reveals and
more exclusive gathering and test drives. We obviously, owe a lot great lot to our dealers for this
who have been standing by us unabated even during the most difficult outburst of the pandemic
in their respective countries.
Page 7 shows the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic that mostly hit the second quarter of 2020
due to the seven week production suspension and the temporary deals closure. The flexibility
and adaptability that is inherent to our organization and the resilience of the order book
underpinned the V-shaped recovery. Indeed, our Q4 was a record quarter in terms of volumes,
net revenues and EBITDA growing double-digit versus an already robust Q4 2019.
Turning to Page 8, you can see the details of the full-year 2020 shipments down 1,012 units
following the seven-week production suspension in the first half of 2020 and dealers' temporary
closure due to COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by a gradual production recovery of roughly
500 units in the second half of the year. Sales of both V8 cylinder and V12 were down 10.3% and
9%, respectively. During the year, despite the COVID-19 disruptions, we managed to deliver the
Ferrari Monza SP1 and SP2 as originally scheduled. The F8 family continued the ramp up phase
offsetting the special series of the 488 Pista families, which was approaching the end of its life
cycle.
The 812 GTS, with deliveries commenced in the second quarter and reached global distribution,deliveries of the SF90 Stradale started in Q4 following the industrialization delays experienced
and then solved. In the same quarter, also the Ferrari Roma commenced deliveries. The early
shipments were affected by our deliberate geographical location based on the different stages
of the life cycles of our model by region. As a result, EMEA and rest of APAC were almost in line
with prior year. Americas was down 19.8%, but showed a 14% upturn in Q4, thanks to the ramp up
of the 2019 models.
Mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan posted a decrease of 45.5% in the year, while grew
triple-digit in Q4, thanks the ramp up of 2019 models and easy comparison versus prior year, as a
reminder, with privileged deliveries in this region in the first nine months of 2019. Notwithstanding
the challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic, we unveiled three new models in 2020. The Ferrari
Portofino M, SF90 Spider and the limited edition truck car 488 GT Modificata, which will lead the
market in 2021. And I'm happy to announce that our portfolio will be further enriched by three
new models unveiling this year.
Turning to Page 9, you can see here displayed the walk of our group net revenues for the full year
that was down 8.9% at constant currency. Revenues from cars and spare parts were down 4.1% at
constant currency. Such performance reflects the volume decline and their personalization,
partially offset by the positive mix price, mainly thanks to the Ferrari Monza SP1 and SP2.
Personalization rate on cars and spare part revenues was around 18%, while down in absolute
terms given the volume contraction. Engines revenues were down 24%, mainly reflecting lower
shipments to Maserati and revenues from the rental of engines to other Formula 1 racing teams.
Revenues from sponsorship, commercial and brand were down EUR150 million, significantly
impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, resulting in a shorter number of Formula 1 races, as well as
lower in-store traffic and museum visitors. Other revenues were down 19.3% at constant currency.
We are mainly impacted by reduced sports related activities and the cancellation and the MotoGP
at the Mugello racetrack only partially offset by the first ever Formula 1 Grand Prix as our circuit.
Currency including translation and transaction impact as well as foreign currency hedges, which
played a significant role, had a positive contribution of EUR32 million, mainly the U.S. dollar.
Moving to Page 10, let me review the change in our EBIT, which was EUR716 million, down 21.9% or
25.3% at constant currency with EBIT margin at 20.7%. The negative variance at constant currency
remains mostly the COVID-19 impact on Formula 1, brand related activities and engine sales,
partially offset by the resilience of our core business. More precisely, volume drove a negative
variance of EUR126 million due to previously mentioned reduced deliveries. Mix price variance was
positive for EUR130 million, thanks to the Ferrari Monza SP1 and SP2 and the richer product mix
and country mix in Q4 despite fewer FXX-K EVO. This was partially offset by the lower
contribution from personalization's programs due to the decrease of shipments and the gradual
phase out of the 488 Pista families.
Industrial costs, research and development costs increased EUR38 million mainly due to higher
D&A, net of the benefit of technology-related incentives recognized in the year. This also
included the full cost of employees paid days of absence during the COVID-19 production
suspension. SG&A decreased EUR6 million, reflecting significant cost containment actions, partly
offset by Formula 1 racing activities. Other decreased EUR211 million, due to the pandemic impact
on the Formula 1 racing calendar, lower traffic from brand-related activities, as well as engine
sales to Maserati. The total net positive impact of currency was EUR38 million year-on-year.
Turning to Page 11, industrial free cash flow generation for the year was EUR172 million. The
positive generation was driven by EBITDA, partially offset by investment of EUR709 million to fuel
our long-term product development, including over EUR60 million from the purchase of tract ofland contributes to our facilities in Maranello. Net of the impact of IFRS-16, our capital expenditure
for 2020 were slightly lower than our guidance due to slower spending cadence in the last
quarter that we will make up in 2021. The capitalization ratio was approximately 38% for the year
basically in line with 2019.
The adverse working capital impact due primarily to the reversal of the Ferrari Monza SP1 and SP2
advances received in 2019 and higher product and raw material inventories to protect the supply
chain in these complex months. Tax payments, higher than last year mainly as a result of the
Patent Box mechanics. Net industrial debt as of the end of the year was EUR543 million
compared to EUR337 million last year. During the year, a total worth of EUR130 million of share
were repurchased before the decision to temporarily suspend the program and EUR212 million
were distributed in dividends.
With respect to the share repurchase program, it's important for you to know that we remain
focused on rewarding our shareholders and the Board of Directors will decide the best course of
action as the year unfolds. At the end of 2020, total available liquidity including undrawn credit
lines for EUR700 million committed, was EUR2,062 million, which compares with approximately
EUR1,880 million as of September 30. As a reminder, an amount of EUR500 million was just used
to reimburse the bond maturing in January.
Moving to Page 12, you can see the 2021 guidance, which targets a strong rebound versus 2020
with net revenues around EUR4.3 billion, and such target is predicated upon having trading
conditions unaffected by further restrictions or impact from the pandemic on our core business.
Revenues from Formula 1 still discounting the known uncertainties on the calendar and reflecting a
lower 2020 ranking. And brand activities still dealing with the COVID-19 challenges throughout
2021. Adjusted EBITDA between EUR1,450 million and EUR1,500 million with approximate
percentage margins between 33.7% and 34.9%. Adjusted EBIT between EUR970 million and
EUR1,020 million, targeting an EBIT margin between 22.6% and 23.7%. This reflects the higher
D&A following the CapEx increase of most recent years, beside the mentioned challenges due to
COVID-19.
In addition, we expect operational and marketing expenses to gradually resume, adjusted diluted
EPS between EUR4 and EUR4.20 per share assuming approximately 20% tax rate. Industrial free
cash flow in the region of EUR350 million, our free cash flow will reflect higher CapEx, which we
expect to amount to around EUR800 million with a slight catch up compared to 2020 as already
commented. Finally, it is worth noting that the guidance for 2021, rest on the assumption that the
exchange rate will remain in line with the last part of 2020 for our most relevant currencies.
The extraordinary conditions of 2020 affected all of us in many ways. What has not changed is
the commitment and passion that we live and breathe every day in Ferrari. 2021 guidance growth
is an evidence of our unchanged ambitions. We clearly know that there is a lot of focus on 2022.
On the one hand, the pandemic has clearly affected our plans. As disclosed, we have postponed
some initiatives. In addition, the pace of introduction of new emissions regulations all over the
world has been accelerating.
To have better clarity on our future, we also need to handle the uncertainties caused by COVID-
19 impacting the development of our core business, our Formula 1 racing and brand-related
activities possibly lasting longer than originally expected. On the other hand, the inherent
strength of our business model and resilience of our core business as through their work in this
recent period, which gives us confidence in our ability to tackle challenges and possibly transform
them into opportunities. As our Chairman just said, we have an exciting decade ahead, which we
look forward sharing and discussing when we meet for our Capital Market Day in 2022.With that said, I'll turn the call over to Nicoletta.
`Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Antonio. We are now ready to start the Q&A session. As a reminder, you will be
managed by Antonio. Thank you, Andrea, to you.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. (Operator Instruction) Our first question comes from the line of `Michael Binetti, Credit Suisse from
Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Credit Suisse `
Hey, good morning guys. Thanks for all the detail. I want to ask about the guidance first, I
suppose, if we look at the 2022 EBITDA that we talked about at the Capital Markets Day. It had
implied incremental margins of well over 50% relative to the 2019 numbers, and then your 2021
guidance implies less than 40% incremental margins versus 2019. I'm wondering what you
consider are the components that will leave incremental margins in '21 below the trajectory that
we knew about.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Michael. It's, we do look that much at 2021 for the trajectory to 2022. This pretty much
depends on the mix we assume that the capital product mix, as we assumed at the Capital
Market Day. As I said, we'll review. There was an expected -- a significant growth between the 2
years. 2021, as of now is back on the trajectory we had at the time we prepared the plan of
September '18.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Credit Suisse `
Let me ask you about that, I guess. If you -- if I just look at what the bridges you just gave us, if I
just back out the business losses that you showed us hard numbers for -- in 2020, EUR 126 million
of volume and EUR 211 million of loss revenues from Formula 1 calendar activities and brand
activities. That would have put you at EUR 1.48 billion of EBITDA in 2020, which is the midpoint for
-- that you guided us to for 2021. Obviously, you'll get some car business back and I know the
general theme of the Capital Markets Day long-term plan was to keep growing the business and
evolving the profitability. So I'm just -- I'm wondering how much -- I guess, the nexus of the
question is how much conservatism you feel like you need to bake into the 2021 margin guidance
today?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
I think there is some, because 2021 is still affected by significant uncertainty. I mentioned some
elements in the slides that you see, cannot be more specific in terms of amounts. But clearly all of
our business including F1 has to some extent to deal with the uncertainty related to the
development of the pandemic.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Credit Suisse `And then I know, John -- just one last one. I know John mentioned regarding a path to carbon
neutrality and developing a wide framework. I thought that was a very interesting comment.
Would you mind elaborating because it's a subject of much discussion among shareholders?
Could you elaborate on what you think are the key high-level underpinnings to get there that we
should think about as far as how Ferrari thinks about it?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, I think, I can speak on a qualitative basis. Despite we, the fact that we are focused on the
core business, we also have other activities. Our core business is basically made of the carbon
footprint of our products. F1 is very specific per se and brand related activities also have their own
features. So first of all, we need to put all of that together and be able to compute the carbon
footprint for the company-wide basically. And then given the size of this footprint, we can put
together a mix initially, at least, as actions to tackle the issue both with direct actions and with
compensation. As I said, the plan is first to achieve carbon neutrality -- sorry, a carbon footprint
certification. And then at that point we'll be probably ready to be more specific as to the actions
that we'll put in place, to achieve what our Chairman just mentioned, is the goal to become
carbon neutral within the decade.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Credit Suisse `
Okay. Thank you very much guys.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of John Murphy from Bank of America. Please go ahead.
Q - `John Joseph Murphy, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Good afternoon. And because you mentioned, Louis was listening, Louis, we hope you're doing
well and miss you on many levels. Just a first question and I think Michael's question on the 2021
guidance, I think is very important in turning up because I think we're all trying to figure out what
the basis is to work off for our 2022 and beyond numbers. Because it still seems like there is
some noise and pressure on 2021. Is that kind of a fair statement to say, "Hey 2021 is still a year
that's got COVID noise, some incremental costs and some other things that might not be the
best way to think about building off, if it was a basis year for the trajectory in 2022 and beyond." Is
that a fair statement?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
I'm not sure I got all the details of your question because the line is not very good. I understand
you're asking about how 2021 may be informative as to the development of the results for 2022.
Only partly I would say 2021 is mostly execution assuming that COVID-19 allowed us to do so to
execute well in alignment with our plans. 2022 already encompasses the expectation of the
introduction of the new model and that is where we need to be more specific later on.
Q - `John Joseph Murphy, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. And then just a second question. You mentioned personalization was lower in 2020. I'm just
curious as you think about 2021 and a recovery and then beyond, do you think that
personalization will be significantly additive to results going forward? And it was a little bit
depressed in 2020 because of COVID?Okay. Thank you for this question, John. I think we discussed a number of times in previous calls
too. We will do to project personalization because it usually, while the average does not move
much throughout time, it is actually depending on the mix of our products. We mentioned I think
already in a couple of calls the fact that personalization rate has been influenced by special
period. Clearly the price of the car is important because it affects the denominator in the total
revenues. So I will not be particularly mindful about the fluctuation of this personalization rate.
What actually matters in absolute terms are the margins that are attached to that. So you may
imagine that the personalization rate for a Monza in terms of the share of revenues is lower
compared to that of a Portofino or maybe or the Pista, it depends (cid:0) it's a balance of that, but the
contribution may be very different.
Q - `John Joseph Murphy, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. And just lastly on the Concorde Agreement, I was just wondering if you could give us any
basics on the positive or negative side for economics going forward? And just how we should
think about that in a very basic way on the positive and negative swing factors.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, I prefer to comment saying that the net impact of the introduction of the new Concorde
Agreement and the budget cap is kind of neutral for us. That is the expectation, the way we
monitor it throughout time.
Q - `John Joseph Murphy, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. Great. Thank you very much.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, John.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Giulio Pescatore from Exane. Please go ahead.
Q - `Giulio Arualdo Pescatore, Exane BNP Paribas `
Hi everyone. First of all, I also wanted to take this opportunity to wish Louis all the best. Now
coming to the questions, I wanted to come back to the 2021 guidance, and in particular, to the
free cash flow one. I really struggle to understand how to reconcile this EUR 350 million guidance
also because you've given us an EUR 800 million CapEx number. So what are the other
assumptions behind this number in terms of working capital? And then how do we think about
bridging this result with the 2022 target given that it will imply a growth of 3x in cash flow
generation?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Giulio. As you know our free cash flow is basically the result of how much we take out
from the EBITDA due to capital expenditures. Working capital in a wider sense mean, we take into
account also the impact of the advances that we receive on the Monza. And we have a drag --
significant drag on it still in 2021. They -- basically we catch some part -- significant part of the
price of the Monza already in 2019. And we won't have them in 2021. And besides the usual
dynamics of the rest of working capital that does not count much usually. We have the tax and
financial charges payment. As far as tax is concerned, you should take into account the fact thatnew Patent Box scheme, basically, provides for the cash benefit to be split in 3 years. So there will
be a slight reduction in 2021 compared to what we witnessed in 2019 and 2020. (Multiple
Speakers)
Q - `Giulio Arualdo Pescatore, Exane BNP Paribas `
Okay, yes, yes. A lot. Thank you very much. And if we look at the 2022 number again, does it
include any impact from new deposits for a potential new limited edition car? Or it's a -- or should
we say, it's a clean number?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. That's a fair assumption.
Q - `Giulio Arualdo Pescatore, Exane BNP Paribas `
Okay. Thank you very much. Then I also wanted to come back on the decision to postpone the
CMD. Is that only driven by the fact that there isn't a permanent CEO at the moment or if there is
anything else behind the decision?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
I don't think we ever communicated a date for the CMD, Giulio. (Multiple Speakers) we'll speak
about that.
Q - `Giulio Arualdo Pescatore, Exane BNP Paribas `
Okay. And then also looking at your shipments for Q4,I mean, you were indicating shipments
down around 9% for the full year in 2020. You closed the year down 10%. Is there any maybe
conservativeness in deliveries in the last few weeks of the year? Have you taken maybe -- how to
deliver is to kind of protect?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
No, it's really, it's just rounding Giulio, just rounding.
Q - `Giulio Arualdo Pescatore, Exane BNP Paribas `
Okay. Thank you very much.
Operator
Our next question comes from line of the `Susy Tibaldi, UBS from UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Susy Tibaldi, UBS `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. First of all, I would like to talk a little bit about the mix evolution
to expect in 2021. Clearly, your mix is becoming stronger and stronger. At the same time we do
have the annualization of the Monza and also the Pista's being phased out. So net-net, what
should we expect in terms of contribution trend to mix in 2021?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
We expect mix to be positive and this is due to the fact that we will keep on delivering the Monza
as per our plan. And we should have a significant growth in terms of the deliveries of year, since'19. So that is the main driver of what we expect.
Q - `Susy Tibaldi, UBS `
Okay. And then -- and when it comes to the percentage of volumes that you expect to be hybrid
because you had a target at the CMD to have 60% by next year, which, I mean, at the moment
you have two models. So how should we think about the step-up? And do you have -- can you
give us an indication of what percentage of 2021 volumes could be hybrid?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
No. As you know we prefer not to go into that. We prefer to look just at revenues. Those are
much more relevant than volumes per se.
Q - `Susy Tibaldi, UBS `
Okay. And on the CEO search. I mean, I can imagine that you cannot give details in terms of
names that you might be considering. But can you perhaps discuss a little bit what are the key
criteria and qualities that you are looking for in the next CEO?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
I'm sorry, the question is about what? I didn't catch you.
Q - `Susy Tibaldi, UBS `
Yes, the search for the new CEO, if you can describe the key criteria and the characteristics that
you're looking at?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I'm sure the Board is considering all of the criteria that are necessary to run a company like
ours. You're right, yes.
Q - `Susy Tibaldi, UBS `
Okay. And maybe just one last one as a clarification, can you just remind us what plans have been
affected and what initiatives have been postponed as a result of COVID?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
No. Once again, I think we mentioned a couple of times this year. The basics and the main drivers
of our growth plan remain unchanged. It's just a question of timing for most of that. But as we are
not specific in advance of the models we launched, we cannot be -- even more I would say on the
initiatives that will come in a couple of years or longer.
Q - `Susy Tibaldi, UBS `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks.
OperatorOur next question comes from the line of `Monica Bosio, Banca Akros from Intesa Sanpaolo. Please go ahead.
Q - `Monica Bosio, Banca Akros `
Good afternoon everyone, and thanks for taking my questions. The first one is on China. Can you
give us a flavor on what are you going to expect in terms of shipments from Mainland China,
Hong Kong and Taiwan in 2021 and if you see some major flow of shipments in the coming year
from these regions?
And the second is on the timing for the new models. Can you give us a rough timing for the
announcement of the 3 new models in 2021? And the very last is on the quarterly trend. I know
it's difficult, but the outlook is still uncertain. So do you see some differences with quarter-by-
quarter, if you can just give us a flavor about the first quarter and going forward? Thank you very
much.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Monica. I'll start from the launchs. That's a nice try. But as you know we do not go into
that sort of details. With respect to the quarterly development of the year, we have some
seasonality; something has changed in 2020 due to the impacts of the pandemic. So the
comparison will not be an easy one. It's not just the development of volumes, but it's also the mix
that changes and also in terms of revenue recognition for the F1 activity. So it's a bit difficult
without entering into the detail of modeling as we prefer not to do.
The last one is on China. What we currently witness is a nice comeback of orders from there. I
mean, we should not ever look at our deliveries in 2019 and 2020 because you know these were
affected by our decision to anticipate the introduction of a new emission regulation that wasn't
expected in 2019. As a result, 2020 suffered in the comparison. In 2021, what we currently see is a
significant growth of order particularly and nicely that maybe an interesting one on the Monza --
sorry on the Roma and with a significant share of orders for -- from women there. So that means
something in terms of the car may have even if with a permits engine.
Q - `Monica Bosio, Banca Akros `
Okay. Thank you very much, Antonio. Thank you.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Monica.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of George Galliers from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Q - `George Anthony Galliers-Pratt, Goldman Sachs
Good afternoon and thank you to taking my questions. The first question I had and apologies if
you did allude to this in the comments. But just for this year, what are your assumptions around
raw materials and FX? And have you already taken actions to price through the appreciation in
the Euro against the U.S. dollar which we saw last year?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `Thank you, George. In terms of our policy on FX, as you know we have a policy that provides for a
hedging on a rolling basis with some target percentages. So a significant chunk of 2021 is already
been hedged throughout 2020. Still we do not go 100%, and there is a room for changes and
impact from changes in FX on our results, which is minimized, but may go once in size or another.
As far as raw material, for those who really matter, we have the similar policy.
Q - `George Anthony Galliers-Pratt, Goldman Sachs
Understood. Thank you. And then the second question I had was just with respect to the order
book. You're obviously extremely clear that the order book is very strong and extends well into
next year. Can I just ask you, is there much variation by model line or more importantly, by market
in terms of what you see with respect to the order book? Or is it pretty robust across the board
at this point in time?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
I will describe it as a pretty robust across the board, across geographies, across the Board
meaning across product and geography, nicely enough.
Q - `George Anthony Galliers-Pratt, Goldman Sachs
Great. And then the final question just to clarify and I think both Michael and John have already
touched on this, but I just wanted to clarify. At this point in time, you still are aiming to deliver the
2022 targets that were presented? Is that a fair statement?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
I think that will come with -- at the Capital Market Day. At that point, we may describe the strategy
we are pursuing. And if -- and by how much any results expected -- any target expected for 2020
is to be changed.
Q - `George Anthony Galliers-Pratt, Goldman Sachs
Thank you.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Sorry, 2022.
Q - `George Anthony Galliers-Pratt, Goldman Sachs
Thank you.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, George.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Thomas Besson, Kepler Cheuvreux from Kepler Cheuvreux.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Thank you very much. I'll have a couple of questions left, please. Firstly, you had because of --A - `Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations `
Sorry Thomas, can you maybe speak a bit louder and closer to the microphone? We have
problem hearing you. Thank you.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Sure. Sorry for that Nicoletta, is that better now?
A - `Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations `
Way better. Thank you very much.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Okay. Great. Sorry for that. So there a couple of questions left, please. First, on the EBIT bridge in
2020 because of COVID, you had an enormous others line, that was very negative. Should we
expect part of that to reverse positively in 2021? Or is it just something that's gone?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Not sure. I got -- which is the part of the EBIT Bridge that you were talking about?
Q - `Thomas Besson, Kepler Cheuvreux `
The one called other.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Sorry. Well, you know that the other includes the impact of F1, which in principle may come back to
the extent -- the calendar, the F1 calendar is not affected the same way it was in 2020. That
obviously include the revenues from the commercial rights holder and the revenues from the
sponsorship, but also includes the impact on EBIT from the delays -- on our -- delays and closure
of our brand related activities. Once again, there we are very much dependent on the evolution
of the pandemic. And finally, we are also partly dependent on Maserati, I mean in terms of
volumes and margins attached to that.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Okay. Thank you. Actually give me a connection to the next question. Can you just clarify the
potential financial consequences of stopping the delivery of Maserati engines? We are not fully
aware obviously of the contract you had with them. Is there a need to write-off any asset or...
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. The agreement with Maserati is expected to end in 2023. That business is dilutive for us in
terms of margin. And furthermore I think we outlined since the time of the Capital Markets Day
that we expect to have some capacity to be freed up from the top of their activity their maybe
used for the development of our models and of our powertrain going forward.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Okay, thank you. I have a last question that may be beyond the scope, but I try it. Could you give
us any hint about the 2022 CapEx plan and the timeline for the Purosangue launch, whether it's
still within the frame of the initial plan or whether it's now pushed into '23?A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
No, I would ever prefer not to go into that. Once again, we said there are some developments
ongoing. It's better to talk when everything is clear.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Understood. Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Massimiliano Vecchio, Unione di Banche Italiane S.p.A., from UBI Banca.
Q - `Massimiliano Vecchio, Unione di Banche Italiane S.p.A.,
Yes, good afternoon to everybody. I have a follow-up question on the CapEx indication. EUR 800
million is really a big number. It's probably the highest in the history. I was wondering if you can
give us some details on what are the number ones of two projects that you are investing in or, at
least by categories if it's R&D for new propulsions. Or it's -- any color would be helpful.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure, Massimno. By the way, this was the same target we gave -- better expectation that we gave
beginning of last year when we started 2020 and before being informed about the impact of
COVID and there is some catch up in that number from the slower pace of our investment in the
last part of 2020. Mostly -- this is mostly product, so product development, which always is
attached to that. In terms of the consideration that we are not anymore on the thermic engines.
We also have, as you all know, hybrid, and we are working on other infrastructure is a small part of
that, but we cannot disregard the development in our factor year as we did by the way, by
purchasing some tracts of land contiguous to our headquarter here. So as I said, it's mostly
product. And this is by the way fully in line with what we said at the Capital Market Day back in
2018. So we're adjusting our execution over there.
Q - `Massimiliano Vecchio, Unione di Banche Italiane S.p.A.,
Okay. Thank you very much.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Jonas from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `Adam Michael Jonas, Morgan Stanley `
Thanks, everybody. And I have a question for John Elkann, but I just wanted to say at the outset
that, I mean, all the talk around 2022 guidance, I totally understand it, but just think about how
much the world has changed in terms of CO2 and climate change and EV economics since the
2018 CMD, it almost renders toward the 2022 guide. Irrelevant, in my opinion, but just my opinion,
but John, question for you, Ferrari vehicles, I know management in the past on tailpipe emissions
had the comment that because Ferrari vehicles are such a miniscule part of the park that it's really
tiny and that you could kind of talk to regulators and somehow convince them, we're not a big
deal, and you could kind of purchase credits and very easily at current carbon prices or even
more than that kind of make it neutralize it. But what's happening of course, as you know John
and the team, now cities are getting involved: London, Los Angeles, Hong Kong, big Ferrari cities
are kind of saying, "No, we're not going to allow the operation of ICE vehicles in the comingyears." And so it just means you run the risk of having the regulatory environment move outside
of your control. So with that in mind, I'd love to hear, maybe a direct question, John, can you see a
day within the next decade where the majority of Ferrari's products are 100% electric, not just
hybrid, because that's still considered tailpipe climate changing cars in the eyes of these mayors
and cities that we're talking to and you're talking to. Could you see -- and I'm not asking to say it's
going to happen, but is that a -- is that too radical for Ferrari while protecting the sanctity of the
brand? Thanks, John.
A - `John Philip Elkann, Executive Chairman of the Board, Interim Chief Executive Officer `
Hi Adam, good to hear your voice, I think that the best way to answer is really an open invitation
for next year in Maranello to talk to you and all your colleagues who are going to join us on the
exciting journey that we have over this decade. And 2030 will still be a year where we will have
hybrid cars. So within this decade, we will be seeing a Ferrari fully electric. What we will see within
this decade is an electric Ferrari. And I hope you will buy one, Adam.
Q - `Adam Michael Jonas, Morgan Stanley `
I love you, John. Let's talk about it.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of the `Stephen Reitman, Societe Generale from Societe
Generale. Please go ahead.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Societe Generale `
Yes, good afternoon. Thank you. A question on -- you mentioned very impressively that your
cancellation level in 2020 was lower than in 2019. Could you comment a little bit about where
were the cancellations either by geography or by product, ready to get an idea about that? And
secondly you alluded on the new customers that you have had very strong interest from women
in China for the Roma. Can you talk more generally about the level of interest globally further on
the Roma and also the level of interest for the SF90 Stradale, the other extreme and particularly
the amount of the proportion of people who are specifying Assetto Fiorano additional uptake?
Thank you.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Stephen. In terms of the cancellations, we were public in the second quarter as to the
fact that we had some cancellations in North America and in Australia. They were pretty much
concentrated there. From then on, we haven't seen anything specific, so the ones that we had
were usually evenly distributed through other various geographies, nothing special to report, with
respect to the color on order intake for the various models. I think it is confirmed that the Roma
attracts more than any other Ferrari before new to Ferrari's customers, which is interesting and
nice. It happens also that the SF90 attracts younger customers more probably than we would
have expected. And the order book for that car is very, very long. And significant pre-orders have
been put already some months ago. And that are probably the two mostly interesting elements
that you should take into account.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Societe Generale `
And on the -- and in terms of sort of the model cancellations, were they concentrated at the
lower end or the higher end of the model lineup?A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
I don't think there is any specific concentration on neither the low nor the high end of our range.
There work across the board.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Societe Generale `
Thank you very much.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Stephen.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Societe Generale `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. There are no further questions on the line. Please go ahead.
A - `Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, all. Bye-bye.
Operator
That concludes the call for today. Thank you for participating. You may all disconnect.