Q4 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to Ferrari 2021 Full Year Results Conference
Call. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. After the speakers' presentation, there
will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions)
I would now like to hand the conference over to your first speaker today, `Nicoletta Russo, Investor Relations. Please
go ahead.
`Nicoletta Russo, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Nadia, and welcome to everyone who's joining us. Today, we plan to cover the
group's full year 2021 operating results and 2022 guidance. In light of this, the duration of the call
is expected to be around 60 minutes.
Today's call will be hosted by the group's CEO, Mr. `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer; and group CFO, Mr. Antonio
Picca Piccon. All relevant materials are available in the Investors section of the Ferrari corporate
website. And at the end of the presentation, we will be available to answer your questions.
Before we begin, let me remind you that any forward-looking statements we might make during
today's call are subject to the risks and uncertainties mentioned in the safe harbor statement
included on page 2 of today's presentation, and the call will be governed by this language.
With that said, I'd like to turn the call over to Benedetto.
`Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Nicoletta. Thank you everyone for joining us today. Three months have passed since
the last time we met digitally altogether and many things have happened in our company. Today, I
will be delighted to take you through the 2021 results and that would provide a little taste aboutwhat's happening in our company. Our performance in 2021 was very robust from both a
quantitative and qualitative point of view.
Numbers first. We close the year setting a new record in terms of results across all metrics
posting double-digit growth and above pre-pandemic level. The results were higher than the
target we had already upgraded when we shared our third quarter results. Five excellent results
to remember.
First, EUR4.3 billion revenues materially exceeding for the first time in our history, the threshold
level of EUR4 billion. Over 11,000 cars shipped, we have a significant growth in all region. In China,
our deliveries doubled year-over-year. 35.9% exceptionally strong EBITDA margin reached at a
record level, impressive EUR640 million industrial free cash flow generation, mainly thanks to the
advances collected on the special series and thanks to the discipline and timing of CapEx spend.
And all this, we have no impact on our product plan.
The last point is we have the strongest ever order book in our history, up double-digit versus the
prior year and covering well into 2023, with all region showing significant growth. How did we
achieve these excellent -- these five excellent results?
Firstly, we have to thank our incredible customers, both existing and new, and all the women and
all the men of Ferrari for their outstanding work. Secondly, it was possible, thanks to the strong
margin contribution of the Monza SP1 and SP2. Thirdly, this was further boosted by our decision to
seize commercial opportunities on certain models in line with our order intake evolution. We also
benefited from deliveries of the SF90 Stradale being moved to '21 from previous year 2020.
And last but not the least, we have capitalized on a strong economic climate as evidenced also
by the solid performance of our pre-owned business, and on the enthusiasm of our customers,
whose delight in sharing their Ferrari passion with us has been so evident at our event. After
these five excellent result, the five key priorities we focused on, on all the year 2021, product
excellence, customer experience, motor racing, brand diversification and carbon neutrality.
Let's start with product. Last year, we unveiled four new models, demonstrating our leadership in
technology, in design, and driving experience. They all received an enthusiastic response from
the market and worldwide acclaim. In May, we unveiled the 812 Competizione and 812
Competizione Aperta, our latest special series with its revolutionary aerodynamics. And they
were all sold out prior to the official launch as a testament to the vigorous demand for our V12
models.
Just a month later, in June, we launched the accelerating 296 GTB, featuring our latest hybrid
powertrain, combining a V6 turbo and electric motor. It exceeded previous models' order intake
over the same priority period, and now a solid pipeline of experiences for our customer is already
planned for the current year, further fueling our ambition for this model. I drove this car several
times and the go-kart feeling and the fun-to-drive experience, you can have are really unique,
believe me.
A few weeks ago, in November, the new icona, the most powerful V12 ever made, who's
unveiling I had the pleasure of attending in Florence surprised our most loyal Ferraristi. I'm talking
about the Ferrari Daytona SP3, a masterpiece of craftsmanship, performance and design already
awarded internationally and limited to 599 units, which have all been allocated in advance of its
premiere and with untapped the demand way exceeding the limited series run.
So we entered this year '22 with considerable momentum. Thanks to two factors. One, the
strongest ever order book; and two, a broad portfolio of models. The order book first. It hasnever been so strong. The positive trend characterized the whole year and continued in Q4,
when we experienced impressive order intake, despite our decision to close the order collection
on certain models.
Second, the new product portfolio, not only do we have the broadest, most innovative and most
beautiful range of cars ever offered to our customers, but we also plan to further enrich these
with two further launches this year, completing the 15 launches promised at the Capital Market
Day in 2018.
In this year, in '22, we will unveil the much-anticipated Purosangue, which I'm confident will exceed
our customer expectations. I drove it several times in the hills around Maranello, the day and
night, for the test and I can testify that the driving experience is really astonishing, but I do not
want to say more to avoid, to spoil such a surprise.
Now, after product, customer experience. In the course of 2021, it has been really liberating to be
able to start arranging events with them again. To mention a few of them, we market the
Cavalcade's 10th anniversary with very special event in Sicily for Classiche in modern drivers, and
we had started our Tribute and Corse Clienti activities, culminating in the Finali Mondiali at
Mugello, where I met so many of our customers and fans all passionate about Ferrari.
Now our motor racing activities. 2021 was our best ever season in GT racing. With Ferrari winning,
the drivers and manufacturers World Titles in FIA, World Endurance Championship and with victory
at the 24 Hours of Le Mans with our 488 GTE Evo.
The Formula One 2021 season also showed encouraging sign towards its end with third place in
the Constructors' Championship. 2022 is the first year with a completely new set of technical
rules and our new car will be presented in a few days on February 17th. We are also redefining our
strategic partner along three directions. One, we welcome back Banco Santander; two, we
tapped current segments with new partner such as Ceva Logistics in the transportation space;
three, we strengthen our relationship with leading-edge technological partners such as Amazon
Web Services and Velas to be at the forefront of digital technologies and Web 3.0.
Such stronger partner portfolio confirms once again, the continued (inaudible) of the most
successful team in F1 history, Scuderia Ferrari. And what about the brand diversification? Well, last
year, we made excellent progress in extending our brand into exciting new territories. In June, we
launched the first ever Ferrari fashion collection. In July, we reopened the iconic Cavallino
Restaurant in the heart of Maranello. And in the second half of last year, we renovated our stores
in Italy and USA. In 2022, we planned to move forward and the first important milestone will be
the upcoming fashion show in Milan later this month.
Last but not least, carbon neutrality by 2030. In a further step towards our goal, in Q4, we
received ISO 14064 certification for our calculation of the Group's carbon footprint. This
certification has been really an important step forward. In addition to our electrification journey,
we are also committed to addressing both direct, indirect emissions with a focus on energy and
material across all our entire value chain.
As always, our focus was not only on external stakeholders. We continued to invest in our
employees through to our founder's believe that Ferrari is made above all by people. We
invested in training for our employees, caring for their well being and nurturing the diversity of
talent in our company. Our efforts were rewarded in 2021 by equal salary certification for the
second consecutive year in Italy, and for the first time in the United States.The year has been really outstanding. Thanks to the passion, the dedication of Ferrari people.
And to reward their achievement in line with the company's strong performance indicators, I'm
really pleased to announce the company, the yearly competitive award up to slightly over
EUR12,000 for our employees.
And now after the 2021 highlight, let's have a look at the future -- at our future. A small taste
before providing the full picture on June 16 when we meet here. We are targeting 2022 to be a
solid year on the trajectory to reach the 2023 EBITDA target of EUR1.82 billion as announced in
2018. How do we want to do this, how we want to achieve this goal? Well, there are three clear
directions we'd identified.
Number one, we will carefully manage a vibrant order intake in line with our strategy to pursue
controlled growth to preserve our brand exclusivity. Two, we will manage the Monza's phase-out,
whilst the Daytona's deliveries will start in 2023. Three, as I already explained in the last call,
innovation requires partners, and it is what we start to do. LoveFrom, Amazon, and Velas just to
mention a few of them, and some other -- some other important technology partnership will
follow up in the near future.
2022 is a very important year for us. It's not only the 75th anniversary of our company. It also sets
the foundation for a new business plan which will be presented in our Capital Market Day on June
16 here in Maranello. This will also be location to meet in person some members of our new
organization recently announced and achieved through both the promotion of home-grown
talents and the number of key strategic externalize.
The new organization is signed to further foster innovation, optimize processes, enhance the
GDP and increase collaboration. People are the soul of our company, and I'm confident, we will
seize the opportunities ahead of us in this fast evolving environment.
I will now hand over to Antonio, who will review the 2021 result and 2022 guidance.
`Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Benedetto, and good morning or afternoon to everyone who is joining us today. Let
me start on Page 7. Where you can see the highlights of the 2021 earnings, a very strong year,
which shows high double-digit growth on all metrics compared to 2020, and more meaningfully a
remarkable increase versus pre-pandemic levels. Our shipments reached 11,155 unit, up 22%
versus the prior year and 10% versus 2019.
Group net revenues were EUR4.271 billion increased 23% versus prior year and 13% versus 2019,
driven mainly by volume and stronger product mix. EBITDA came in at EUR1.531 billion, up 34%
versus 2020 and close to 21% versus 2019. The EBITDA margin reached a record level of 35.9%
boosted by the contribution from the Ferrari Monza and otherwise, very rich product mix. EBIT
was EUR1.75 billion, up 50% versus 2020 and 17% versus 2019. The improvement of both
operating margins compared to our latest guidance mainly reflects the upward revision of the
commercial revenues from the F1 commercial right holder recorded in Q4.
Adjusted net profit was EUR833 million, up 56% versus 2020 and 19% versus 2019, resulting in an
adjusted diluted EPS of EUR4.5 improved by 56% versus prior year. Industrial free cash flow for
the year was exceptionally strong at EUR642 million supported mainly by the collection of the
advances for 812 Competizione.
Turning to Page 8. You can see the details of the shipments of the full year 2021, up 22% versus
2020. Sales of eight cylinder were up about 35%, while 12 cylinders were down 16% mainly due tothe reduced volume of the 812 Superfast, which was phased out in the year.
Our deliveries were driven by the range models, the F8 family, the Ferrari Roma and the SF90
Stradale which reach global distribution. The Portofino M and SF90 Spider in ramp up phase.
Shipments of the Ferrari Monza SP1 and SP2 were higher compared to the prior year, in line with
planning and reaching the end of production. All geographic regions posted double-digit growth.
Moving to Page 9, you can see the walk of our group net revenues up 26% at constant currency.
The increase in revenues from cars and spare parts up almost 29% at constant currency was
supported by higher volumes and strong enrichment of the product mix, along with
personalizations. Revenues from personalization were higher than the prior year in absolute
terms sustained by volumes. They were in line with historical average at around 18% in proportion
to revenues from cars and spare parts. Engines revenues were up about 26%. The improvement
is related to higher shipments to Maserati and to a lesser extent to the rental of engines to other
Formula 1 racing teams.
The increase in sponsorship commercial and brand up close to 13% at constant currency was
attributable to the more favorable Formula 1 calendar and brand-related activities, partially offset
by lower prior year ranking. This increase reflects also the upward revisions of the commercial
revenues from Formula 1 that I mentioned before. Currency including translation and transaction
impact as well as foreign currency hedges at the negative contribution of EUR80 million mostly
related to the US dollar and the Japanese yen this quarter.
Moving to Page 10. Let me review the change in our EBIT bridge explained by the following
variances. First, volume was positive for EUR220 million, reflecting the shipments increase.
Second, mix price variance was also positive for EUR212 million boosted by a richer product mix.
Thanks to the SF90 family and the Ferrari Monza SP1 and SP2 along with personalization, partially
offset by the ramp up of the Ferrari Roma and the Portofino M and the reduced contribution of
the 812 Superfast.
As already mentioned by Benedetto, the product mix in 2021 was further boosted by our decision
to seize commercial opportunities on certain models in line with order intake evolution and also
benefited from deliveries of the SF90 Stradale being moved to 2021 from 2020.
Third, industrial and R&D expenses increased EUR65 million mainly due to higher DNA product
innovation activities and Formula 1 expenses net of technology related government incentives as
well as start-up costs.
Fourth, SG&A were negative by EUR14 million mainly reflecting communication and marking
activities of model unveilings and lifestyle events, as well as the Company's organizational
development.
Lastly, other increased EUR83 million reflecting the more favorable Formula 1 calendar and higher
contribution from brand related and other supporting activities, partially offset by the impact of
the lower Formula 1 ranking of 2020. The total net impact of currencies was negative for EUR77
million. As a result of what I just mentioned, EBIT reached EUR1.075 billion, up 50.2% versus the
prior year with an EBIT margin of 25.2%.
Turning to Page 11. Industrial free cash flow generation for the year was remarkable and equal to
EUR642 million sustained by the strong growth in EBITDA and the collection of advances on the
812 Competizione. The working capital dynamic, including the above mentioned advances,
provisions and other receivables and payable was almost neutral also due to the cadence of our
capital expenditure, which stood at EUR737 million. The capitalization ratio was approximately39% for the year and in line with the prior-year. Net industrial debt as of the end of December 21
was EUR297 million compared to EUR543 million at the end of 2020. It's worth mentioning that
excluding the dividend distribution of EUR152 million and EUR231 million of share repurchase, we
would have been cash positive at year-end.
Let's move on Page 12. Here we explained the main drivers of our guidance for 2022, which
targets a solid growth and continues to demonstrate the EBITDA progress on the trajectory to
reach our 2023 EBITDA target of EUR1.8 billion to EUR2 billion as announced back in 2018. While in
2022, our profitability will continue to expand in absolute terms, carefully leveraging our record
order book. Percentage-wise, the marginality will be flattened by a product mix, which will be
richer but not enough to offset the negative impact of the Monza phasing out, and of Daytona
deliveries starting in 2023.
More diversified by -- but the lower revenues from sponsorship and as step-up in DNA in line with
the start of production of new models, which will start their deliveries in 2023 or which contribute
marginally in 2022.
On the industrial free cash flow side, the generation will be robust supported by the strong
operating results and the collection of advances on the Daytona SP3. This will be partially offset
by capital expenditures of approximately EUR800 million as we expect the lower CapEx seen in
2021 to rephase partly in 2022 but also by much higher taxes commensurate to the very strong
results posted in 2021.
Page 10 -- 12, we show the progress that we aim to achieve based on our guidance since our
starting point of 2018 and till the end of 2022. In essence as of the end of this current year, we
want to be very close to what we promised at the 2018 Capital Markets Day for the accumulated
EBITDA and fully on target in terms of cumulated industrial free cash flow generation over the
plan period, albeit with the different time profile. And we want to achieve such results despite the
impacts of this pandemic.
Subject to meeting our ambitions, I believe this will prove once again the resilience and strength
of our business model based on brand exclusivity, product excellence, leading-edge technology
and innovation. Such awareness allows us to look at the future with great confidence.
With that said, I turn the call over to Nicoletta. Thank you.
`Nicoletta Russo, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Antonio. Nadia, please. We are now ready to start our Q&A session.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) The first question comes from the line of `Michael Binetti, Analyst, Credit Suisse from Credit
Suisse. Please go ahead.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Hey, good morning guys. Thanks for all the detail today and for taking our questions. I guess, I'm
trying to think about this structure of the guidance you laid out for '22 relative to where we were
at. I know you guys have been focusing us on the 2018 Analyst Day and helping explain the
differences and similarities as you pushed out the EUR1.8 billion to EUR2.0 billion into next year.
But this year you've got revenues in line at 4.8 with the low end of that original plans, but EBITbelow, but maybe EUR100 million at the low end of the plan. Maybe you could just help us
understand what's different on the same revenue base that drives EBIT a little bit lower this year.
And if it's -- I think you were originally said maybe a few units for (inaudible) would start to ship in
2022 today you clarify that it will be in 2023. So, maybe it's the timing mismatch.
But I wonder how much it might be attributable to the profitability of gross relative to the overall
fleet if that's -- is that a car that you view is accretive to corporate margins or to the rest of the
fleet?
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Antonio, can you help me with it?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Michael. If I got your question right. I think the difference compared to the guidance
we gave back in 2018 is largely due to the different timing of introduction of the cars compared
to what we modeled at that time. Obviously, we are seizing the commercial opportunity that we
are having. So the significantly strong order books on V8 entity models is helping in that respect.
While as we mentioned I think, the gap that we have between the phased out of the Monza and
introduction of the Daytona is impacting the level of the margins, both EBIT and EBITDA. In
addition to that, as far as EBITDA is concerned, we have this DNA impact, which is due to the fact
that we start producing new cars that are coming in the next one. I don't know whether this is
enough or I think in terms of color, and this would help.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Let me follow that for one second. You have, that Daytona and Purosangue confirmed to start
shipping next year after what you described is a headwind from mix this year largely Monza. But if
the guide is now EUR1.8 billion to EUR2 billion for next year, the low end of that guide assumes
EBITDA growth will slow to about 6% in 2023 from 11% in 2022. How should we think about the
top-end versus the bottom end of the guidance in that range? What scenario do you see that
would explain a slowdown to EBITDA growth next year? Maybe there is some phasing of
investments as you guys look at the big and big initiatives like electric of those kinds of things. I'm
just curious if you could help us think about that.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I think volumes will keep on growing anyway with better margins with mix, which will be
stronger was supported by the new ICONA coming in. And this is in the -- as far as the
contribution of our core business, and then we added the other businesses that we expect also
to grow. I mean, brand is still very low in 2022 we expect it to be better.
In terms of a one, there are some elements of this including the budget cap introduction. But
that's, of course, in terms of the cost side.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Okay, thanks. And congrats on a great year, guys. Appreciate it.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from the line of `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Please
ask your question.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thanks very much. And I can't wait until June 16, that's going to be really -- that's going to be so
special. So I look forward to meeting you all in person. Benedetto, when you guys recently struck
a deal with the Swiss blockchain company, Velas Network. How should investors think about the
potential for the Ferrari brand in the Metaverse or in NFT or digital space?
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you for the question, Jonas. And also looking forward to meet you in person at the 16th of
June. I think that as we said, it's important to look and we see how the new technologies can help
our brand. For sure, the digital technologies, the Web 3.0 technologies that they're using, the
blockchain and the NFT is an area that is, it can be interesting for us either deserve some
attention. There are many as you know. There are many. There is a lot of movement on the
market about this. Some companies even change their name. And I think this is an area that,
where we have to put our attention and that's the reason also why, I put the -- we have in place. If
you have seen in the organization, a department, it is called a digital in the data because I mean
is an important dimension that we as Ferrari, we have to evaluate to consider for the future.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Okay. Look forward to learning more about that, Benedetto. My follow-up is, do you believe
electric vehicles expand the addressable market for the Ferrari brand, and if so, how?
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
So do you think that the electric vehicles will expand the brand?
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Do you think that as Ferrari brings forth all electric vehicles that grows the addressable market
and revenue potential for the brand? And if so, how do you see that happening or why?
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. I think the point is the following. I mean electrification is one technology like the
digitalization that we will harness always in our unique Ferrari way. As you know, we already
started to hybridize our model a few years ago. We have already three model on the road that
pretty much successful, SF90 Stradale is by there in 296 GTB. And I believe that electrification is a
way, is a technology that way that can help our brand to keep the pace with the time. That's what
I believe, Adam.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Okay. Thanks, Benedetto.
OperatorThank you. The next question comes from the line of `Susy Tibaldi, Analyst, UBS from UBS. Please ask your
question.
Q - `Susy Tibaldi, Analyst, UBS `
Hi. Thank you for taking my question. And sir my first one would be just to go back on Michael's
question on the '22 guide. So your revenue guide for 2022 is quite high. And so given that the mix
is going to be not that strong. It kind of implies a good step up in volume. And so I was wondering
if this is a correct assumption or if there is something else that will contribute meaningfully to the
top line because you mentioned that also in terms of some sponsorship is a little bit lower. So it
seems like this good increase in revenues should come mostly from the volume growth. So I just
wanted to check if that's the right way to think about it.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Hi, Susy. Antonio speaking. Your assumption is correct. The volume will be higher. So, we'll grow
there. And this is because of the order book is significantly higher than we are used to
discovering well into 2023 is not through that the mix is weak. I mean, actually, the product range
mix is high. It's simply not enough improving compared to the loss of the Monza and the
introduction some months later of the Daytona.
Q - `Susy Tibaldi, Analyst, UBS `
Okay.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
But basically, year-over-year volumes will be positive and mix we expect to be slightly negative
overall.
Q - `Susy Tibaldi, Analyst, UBS `
Okay, got it. And on pricing. So in '21, it was the first time that you pushed through a like-for-like
price increase about 2%. If I remember correctly, it was mostly due to the inflation, and given that
inflation for the moment is not really going away. Should we expect something similar for '22 like
are you planning to potentially push through some price increase if to offset the inflation or was it
a one-off in '21?
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. This is a good and important point. I mean, there is some pressure on the energy, on the
aluminum cost and we will apply this price increase to consider for that. But we will also leverage
other important levers when it comes to the pricing of the new model and selected, I mean a
price increase of selected model and also the personalization. So this is an important factor we
have factoring in, Susy.
Q - `Susy Tibaldi, Analyst, UBS `
Okay, very clear. And very quick, just a follow-up on your free cash flow that you -- so in the slide
that you showed basically, you're in line you achieve the EUR2.4 million to EUR2.8 million
cumulated a cash flow as promised. So basically the fact that you were guiding previously to
EUR1.1 billion to EUR1.25 billion in industrial -- free cash flow is just a matter of phasing, right.
Because it feels like that has been just phased differently due to the phasing of the models orwas there some kind of advances for our future maybe hypercar, which now been change in
timing.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
You got it right, Susy. Phasing is an exact answer.
Q - `Susy Tibaldi, Analyst, UBS `
Okay, perfect. Thanks a lot.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Welcome.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from the line of `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America from Bank of America. Please
ask your question.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
Hi. Good afternoon, everybody and thanks for the time. Just wanted to follow up on that pricing
discussion. I mean, obviously, there is cost inflation that's going on. But you're talking about your
order book being longer than it ever has been before. So is there a greater opportunity to take
price, explain it to your customers, is this cost inflation to you? They're relatively sophisticated to
offset that, but then also to maybe help balance out the supply and demand in the business. It's a
very high-class problem, but it seems like there might be a greater pricing opportunity than
you've ever been had before.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. I think this is what you say it's important, and we are considering. I mean, we are
applying the price increase and we are monitoring carefully what's happening on these two
dimension of energy and aluminum. And again as I said, we will introduce also new model and the
-- we will apply in the right way the pricing. So this is an important dimension that we are careful
about also because we all know what is the pressure that there is in the supply chain all over the
world.
On the other side, they have to say that we have also -- on the supply chain. I mean we have
some good partners, reliable partners we can leverage on.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
Okay. And then just a second question on the transition to EVs. It's very interesting that Daytona is
a V12, naturally aspirated engine. That sounds great to me personally. But obviously, there is a
push towards EVs. Given your close relationship with your customers and you kind of build design
engineer and build what they want. What are you hearing from your customers at this point on
this transition? I mean many other companies are slaves to guessing at where EV penetration will
go and what they should do with their powertrain investment?
But you have direct access and good discussion in relationship with your customers. So what are
they telling you? It is on the Daytona. It seems like they're saying, hey, we probably don't want
this right now. But the reality is, some people might. So, I mean what do your customers tell youA - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
I think we have different kinds of Ferrari's be. Each one with its own prefer the -- let's say model in
the propulsion. So we have Ferrari said that, I have seen them in Florence when we launched the
Daytona. And they were extremely, extremely happy and delighted to see such a beautiful car.
I have seen also customer trying the 296 GTB, that is a kind of different car with a different
feeling. So I think that, if you want to get my feedback from the customer is that we have
customer with different, feeling different needs, different perception and even the same
customer for different moment can have, can prefer the V12, the spirited one or the V6 hybrid. So
there is a mix of different customer with different feeling and different, need different emotion.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
But it's fair to say that you're not guessing at this. You're having discussions with your customers.
So what you're introducing and you're building is what they want. You're never going to -- you
misestimate to EV penetration on -- beyond the models right. I mean it is something that's well
known by you through that order book and your discussions with your customers. Is that a fair
statement?
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
I'm saying that today, there is a clear trend and we will work on for sure. And it's a vehicle and you
will see the strategy lineup here in June 16. What I want to say is that, there are customers,
different customers that prefer a different kind of propulsion scheme. So we are aware of,
obviously, what's happening. We have planned for that. But we are also aware of the different
feelings and different emotions the customers want to get with different propulsion scheme.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
Okay, great. Thank you very much.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from the line of `Giulio Pescatore, Analyst, BNP Paribas Exane from BNP Paribas Exane.
Please ask your question.
Q - `Giulio Pescatore, Analyst, BNP Paribas Exane `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. I just want to follow up on the previous point. In your answer,
did you mean that as long as customers will want combustion engines, you would be willing to
provide them even if you think about 10 or 20 years on the line?
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
I think that the technology is useful as far as it addresses the customer needs. We have to delight
the customer. We have to -- I mean this is important for us. So if we are moving piston or we are
moving other things, that's what we want to do.
Q - `Giulio Pescatore, Analyst, BNP Paribas Exane `Okay, thank you. And then the second question on the order book for the client (inaudible) to be,
which you said build faster than the previous processor of that vehicle. Does that mean that that
car could potentially do the same type of volumes that attribute I say, if they did in the past? And
maybe talk about the difference in demographics between that vehicle and 488?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Maybe...
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, you can go on, Antonio. (Multiple Speakers)
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
One provided to the forecast on volumes lifecycle. However, as Benedetto said before. They
received has been very strong in terms of order compared to our previous internal benchmarks.
The other element, yes. I think you addressing the fact that the -- our customer base for this car is
slightly younger and this is true.
Q - `Giulio Pescatore, Analyst, BNP Paribas Exane `
I mean, really, you need to drive it to experience it. It's -- Well after you to provide driving
experience that you see the. I'll be more than happy.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. We will, we will. The car is here.
Q - `Giulio Pescatore, Analyst, BNP Paribas Exane `
Fantastic. Great to hear. I'll be there. Maybe just one last one before I pass on to the next
speaker. On the free cash flow for 2022, I really started to bridge your guidance which is very,
very conservative at the lower end at least. I understand the step up in CapEx, I understand that
there are going to be higher taxes. But can you maybe help us with the amount of deposits that
we should expect from the Daytona and how many deposits did you receive last year for the
company channel because it's very difficult to bridge these numbers.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, I will not comment on the degree on conservatives of estimate, but basically our cash flow is
relatively simple. I mean we have the EBITDA and you know what the guidance is, you know, what
we said about CapEx. I think the other question is about the working capital where we include in
the wider definition also the impact of the advances on the limited series cars.
So the Daytona, we are talking about more than EUR200 million more or less in terms of current
estimate. The other element we should not underestimate is the impact of taxes because we are
obviously paying taxes, both in terms of the balance and the advance on the basis of the results
of 2021. And it makes a big difference compared to what we paid in 2021 based on the results of
2022 that were impacted by the pandemic. Hope this provides you a better understanding of the
details.
Q - `Giulio Pescatore, Analyst, BNP Paribas Exane `A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Patent Box is helping, but not in terms of cash, nor at the level it did at the very beginning,
because now the low provide for the benefit cash wise in three year instalments. So this has been
already visible in 2021 and it will be obviously in 2022.
Q - `Giulio Pescatore, Analyst, BNP Paribas Exane `
Okay, thank you.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Welcome.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from the line of Martino de Ambroggi from Equita. Please
ask your question.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM `
Thank you. Good morning, good afternoon everybody. My focus is on CapEx, which is a portion of
the lower free cash flow for the current year. So, the EUR800 million maybe considered a sort of
peak for CapEx or should we expect they will go beyond EUR1 billion annually going forward? And
when you talk about partnerships, I remember you also mentioned partnership in order to reduce
CapEx. I clearly understand you cannot talk about something that was not announced, but just to
elaborate a bit on this in order to understand what could be the magnitude of the reduction in
CapEx, if any?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you. Thank you, Marco, you remember well the partnership are important way forward for
us. And as I said also before there would be some partnership that -- some important partnership
for us, we will announce in the near future. I think that -- I mean, it's important that is always also
what I said in my previous life to keep a strong discipline about CapEx and to keep the
momentum to make sure to do some innovative. It's important we decide what we do internally
and we decided and what we want to do with partners outside. So the two word are partnership
and discipline.
And as I said, in the near future, you will hear about an important partnership on something that is
important for our car, but for which, let's say, we believe the best way forward is partnership.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM `
And on the amount of CapEx EUR800 million could be consider as a peak?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
You can consider this more or less a good number to think about, because we will use, as I said,
the partnership to optimize and to be disciplined.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM `
Okay, thank you. And talking about volumes based on what you commented before, I wouldyears.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. This is a bit of a result of the significant net order intake increase that we have seen this
year. So we need to serve this one. Obviously, we'll be very careful because the concept of cars
remains crucial to our business model. And this is an element of significant attention. We will play
all leverages to manage this one.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
And for sure the broadest portfolio -- the broad portfolio we have is helping to protect also the
brand exclusivity because in this year we have a lot of model that are in production.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from the line of `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale from Societe Generale.
Please ask your question.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Yes. Good afternoon and thank you for this. I understand what you're saying about the mix in
2022. So just if you could dig a little more detail in that. First of all, it's my understanding that you'll
still be selling some Monzas in the first quarter of 2022. So if you could see maybe some impact
there? And the second question is for the cadence of deliveries of the 812 Competizione. How
many would you expect to be delivered in 2022?
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
We are having -- there is a lot of the noise on the background. We are having problem to
understand your question. I don't know, it seems there is someone unmute, I don't know.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale `
I'll try again, sorry. I can try again maybe.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Sorry about that.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale `
I'm sorry. I just want to ask, so first of all, I understand that you will be selling still some Monzas in
the first quarter of this year, this final model. Will that have an impact, expected in the first quarter
of this year still? And secondly, could you talk about the cadence of deliveries of the 812
Competizione, obviously a very high margin part for you in the course of 2022? Thank you.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Hi, Stephen. I think in terms of the Monza, we'll complete the deliveries of the Monza in Q1. And
however, then the absolute number will not be as high as it has been during the last quarter ofthis year. And the 812 Competizione and Competizione Aperta will be spread quite evenly across
the four quarters.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Thank you.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Welcome.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from the line of `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs.
Please ask your question.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you for taking my questions. Yeah, the first question I had was just on the volumes.
Obviously, you are now above 11,000 units. I think in the past, previous management mentioned
that max capacity was about 15,000 units on the existing industrial footprint. Is that still roughly
the right number to think about? And in order to get that presumably, you'd have to add shifts.
What's the kind of lead time from a trading perspective to add incremental shifts?
The second question I had was with respect to the carbon neutrality by 2030. Do you still expect
(inaudible) to play a prominent role in reaching that target?
And then finally, obviously we had significant management changes and some exciting
promotions and external hires during the quarter. Perhaps you could give some insights into the
skill sets you were looking to promote as part of those management changes? Thank you.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. I'll start from the last one, the management change and the carbon neutrality, and the
first one Antonio will take it. So let's start from the management change. Yes, we did a big
change at the beginning -- end of last year, beginning of this change, beginning of this year. And
we did along two direction. If you have seen, on one side, we promoted our internal talents that I
had the pleasure to see because I talked with a lot of people in the company and those external
hires.
I think what the common threat that we wanted and I wanted to push these new organization are
the four following ones. Number one, strong willingness to cooperate; number two, is about
attention to innovation; and number three is the focus to bring these things, especially in a
transition area to make the right -- the right choice, the right decision with right timing and to
move forward; and number four is very important, especially nowadays, this is becoming very
important for all the companies, this continuous learning approach because we have to be
opened to listen the other point of view, other people point of view and also the supplier point of
view, the partner point of view.
So these are the features they want to boost with the new organization again organized with the
homegrown talents and also external hires. This gives or grant let me say competencies that are
all these people are bringing in the game.Coming to the second question, the carbon neutrality. As we said, the carbon neutrality, we will
show you a clear plan in when we meet here in Maranello, the target is to become carbon-neutral
by 2030. We want to do it looking at all the carbon emission we generate directly, as well as the
carbon emission that get generated along the value chain, and we want to do in a scientific way
and so this reason why we are also proud. If you want all this, ISO certification, we got in Q4
because it testifies that we are substantiating these numbers we've scientific approach.
I think, that if you want to tackle this properly, we needed to be to lead scientifically and that's
what we will do and that's what we will show you in June.
Now the first question, Antonio, you can take.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, George. On the first one, yes. 15,000 units is the level of capacity that we have. There has
been no change in that respect.
And the second one, we are working on to shift and we predict to be there and even for 2022.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you. Yeah, very helpful. Thank you very much, and looking forward to the CMD.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Likewise.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from the line of `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Intesa SanPaolo-IMI from Intesa SanPaolo. Please
ask your question.
Q - `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Intesa SanPaolo-IMI `
Good afternoon, everyone. I hope you can hear me. My first question is on the volume growth in
2022. On the back of the strong order book, the ramp up of the new engine models in 2022. The
volume impact would be significant over the current year. I was wondering if this could bring to
some phased out of some models such as the F8. And as for the price mix, I was wondering if
you can elaborate on what do you expect in term of personalization for 2022?
And my second question is up, are housekeeping questions. As for the advances from Daytona,
should we assume any impact mostly in the first part of the year. Is it correct? And in term of that
taxes, you mentioned that the taxes will be higher than cash impact level in 2022. Can you give us
some highlights of the P&L level? Thank you very much.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
I think, the part of the -- the phase-out of the model as I said, in Q4, we stop at the -- we need
not take care or there anymore on some model. And this is done for the sake of brand exclusivity.
The personalization gives a good contribution to our top-line. And for the -- Daytona and taxes.
Maybe, Antonio, you can take it.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `Sure. (inaudible) significantly contributing in terms of cash flow with the advances in Q1, maybe
you remember what happened back in 2019 with the Monza. And in terms of tax. Yes, we are
currently projecting something like approximate EUR200 million additional cash out for taxes
during the course of 2022.
Q - `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Intesa SanPaolo-IMI `
EUR200 million. Thank you very much.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Welcome.
Q - `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Intesa SanPaolo-IMI `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you very much. Dear participants, thank you very much for all your questions. And now I
would like to hand the conference over to our main speaker today, Mr. `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer for
closing remarks. Please go ahead.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Thank you so much and thanks all for your time this afternoon and also for all your
questions. Let me close by underscoring three things. One, our excellent 2021 financial result. We
have an exceptional EBITDA margin. Two, our record order book covering well into 2023. And
three, our broad innovative and beautiful product range with two new launches to come in this
year in 2022.
Today I realize that, I mean, we provided a little taste of what's happening in our company. I
realize that you want to hear more. And we are as eager as ever to seize these opportunities,
survive ahead of us and to share with all of you the full picture on June 16 in Maranello at Capital
Market Day.
So good afternoon, everyone. Thanks again for your attention and talk to you in the next quarter.
Thank you.
Operator
That does conclude our conference for today. Thank you for participating. You may all disconnect.
Have a nice day.