Q4 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Ferrari 2022 Full Year Results
Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers'
presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) Please be
advised that today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, `Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations, Head of IR.
Please go ahead.
`Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Sharon, and welcome to everyone who is joining us. Today, we plan to cover the
Group's full year 2022 operating results and 2023 guidance, and the duration of the call is
expected to be around 60 minutes. Today's call will be hosted by the Group CEO, Mr.Benedetto
Vigna; and Group CFO, Mr.`Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer. All relevant materials are available in the
Investors section of the Ferrari corporate website. And at the end-of-the presentation, we will be
available to answer your questions.
Before we begin, let me remind you that any forward-looking statements we might make during
today's call are subject to the risks and uncertainties mentioned in the safe harbor statement
included on Page 2 of today's presentation, and the call will be governed by this language.
With that said, I'd like to turn the call over to Benedetto.
`Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Nicoletta, and thank you, everyone, for joining us today. In this call, we will discuss in
detail two things: the result of the full year '22, and priorities to guidance of year '23.It has been a year of celebration, progress, and innovation for Ferrari. And for this, I would like to
thank all the women and men of Ferrari for their outstanding work, all our partners who have
helped us considerably during the past challenging years during which we had the opportunity to
strengthen our relation with many of our suppliers. And last but not least, all our clients for their
continuous trust in our brand.
During our 75th Anniversary year, among the many different moments, a milestone that signaled
our company's evolution, I would like to highlight the following three. Firstly, we unveiled the two
exciting models, the 296 GTS in April and the Ferrari Purosangue in September. These models
strengthened an already astonishing product range that both meet and exceeds our customer
demand for design, performance, and driving thrills.
Secondly, we presented our strategic plan, it was June, for '22, '26, setting transparent, concrete,
and measurable goal. Thirdly, we outlined our journey towards carbon neutrality within 2030
through a scientific and holistic approach. We are clear on our overall carbon footprint and we
have a defined roadmap moving forward.
From a financial perspective, we ended 2022 with a remarkable set of results, setting a new
record across all metrics with EUR5.1 billion revenues, strong net profit at EUR939 million, and
more than EUR750 million of industrial free-cash flow generation. I will address first racing, where
our origins lie; then sports car, where we have evolved, and at the end lifestyle, our new ventures
which continue to elevate our brand.
Let's start with the racing world. 2022 was an important year for Ferrari in the racing activities. We
celebrated the memorable victories in the Endurance Championship; and we unveiled two new
racing cars, the 296 GT3, the successor of the most winning Ferrari in history, the 488 GT3; and
the 499P, our new Le Mans hypercar, signaling our return to the top-tier of the FIA WEC in 2023
after 50 years.
In Formula 1, we proved that our competitive edge improved during the last season, and it was
encouraging for us and the million of fans to see our drivers taking more places on the podium.
Clearly, our goal is to achieve the ultimate price and the entire team, together with Fred, who
recently joined us, are working relentlessly in that direction.
In Esport, we are engaging in three championship, F1, Endurance and SRO. We continue to lead
the way in terms of bridging the real world with the visual world. How we do it? Well, by having
our own Esport headquarter in Maranello, where our Esport drivers share programs and activities
with our Scuderia Ferrari Driver Academy. And this is one important way to engage the younger
generations.
Now, after all the racing activities, let's talk about our beautiful high-performance and unique
sports car, and let's focus on our future, our order book. We continue to enjoy strong demand
across all regions with an overall order portfolio continuing to be at an all-time high and covering
well into 2024. Our sports car product portfolio continues to have a strong traction on all fronts,
with the 296 family and Purosangue driving the net order intake.
The Purosangue, order intake has been extraordinarily high, well beyond our expectations. But
the enthusiasm of our clients is expressed also by their attendance level at all our events. In fact,
in 2022 we had an unprecedented number on arrival client engagement experiences. On the
brand event side, we extended our CASA Ferrari hospitality in several global venues and in
Australia, we had, for the first time, our Universal Ferrari concept.On the dynamic events, we ranged from our cover capes to our engaging track activities. One for
all, the Finali Mondiali we held in Imola in the last quarter which was definitely a great success and
brought more than 40,000 fans altogether. All of this client experiences are designed to
continue to fuel the passion and a sense of belonging within the Ferrari family.
Among the innovation of 2022, it's worth-mentioning two. The first edition of the Cavalcade Icona
with the participation 80 Ferrari Monza, both SP1 and SP2, coming from more than 20 nations. In
the first Ferrari GT tour women's addition with 26 Ferrarista coming together to take part in an
exclusive road trip in Ibiza.
And now after the sports cars, let's talk about the lifestyle activities. Here, we are determinant to
keep on working to extend our heritage and values in the wider luxury industry. Four highlights
worth-mentioning for 2022. One, we continued our journey in brand elevation through two
fashion shows with strong and positive reviews from press and clients.
Two, we grew our assortment on high image items such as the jumpsuit and tight[ph] traffic
builders, such as Gallo Modena collection launched at the Monza Grand Prix to celebrate the 75th
anniversary. Three, we further consolidated our licensing agreements in-line with our luxury
positioning. And last but not least, we reached the record level of visitor at our museum,
welcoming more than 600,000 guests in 2022.
As you can see, last year, we made many steps forward in racing, sport cars and lifestyle. And in
2022, we also detailed our commitment to reaching carbon neutrality by end of this decade. And
we are also proud to have committed to set science-based targets. The focus is not only on the
impact of driving our sports cars, but also in our entire supply chain and production facilities. In
years, we are working very closely with all our suppliers.
In 2022, we also completed several project in terms of carbon neutrality. From the new fuel cell
plant and photovoltaic system at Maranello to the main innovation identified by our colleague,
such as the adoption of new filters in our foundry, saving more than 250 tons of aluminum per
year and the heat dispersion recovery in our engine testing process. All these initiatives
implemented in 2022 led to a reduction of approximately 5% of energy consumption per car. This
is a remarkable result, and I'm really proud to underline that no CapEx was required, only brain
power of all the colleagues.
All of these developments as well as the record result of the years have been possible thanks to
the passion, to dedication of all the Ferrari people and to reward their achievement in line with
the company's strong performance indicators, I'm pleased to announce the yearly competitive
award of up to nearly EUR13,500 for our employees. I'm also proud to share that for the fourth
year in a row, Ferrari confirmed itself as one of the best place to work, thanks to career
opportunities and welfare services we offer to our employees.
We live behind a year characterized by global tensions, geopolitical conflict, supply chain issues
and cost inflation. With our people, clients and partners, we've been able to weather through
these times, thanks to the collaboration, will to progress, continuous learning, focus and
confidence that sets us apart. And now we are ready for 2023. It will represent another significant
step of our journey, during which we will continue to execute our strategy with the highest
determination. Four, four are the priorities for 2023. We will compete at the top in the different
racing championship. We will continue to enhance our client experiences both on track and on
road and reaching them with four new model launches.
We will broaden the lifestyle client base with a coherent and integrated offering of personalfocus on electrification and HMI as proved by the 4x higher number of patents that we filed in
2022 compared to 2021. We look ahead at 2023 with enthusiast, energy, agility and confident
humility required in these challenging times.
Now I hand over to Antonio to review the 2022 results and 2023 guidance.
`Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Benedetto, and good morning or afternoon to everyone joining us today. Let's start
on Page 5 with the full year 2022 highlights, showing a very strong year with double-digit growth
compared to 2021 and representing a solid foundation of the new business plan. These record
earnings exceeded our latest guidance, thanks to a better business performance, personalization
and a tailwind from foreign exchange rates also in the last part of the year.
Having said that, I would like to highlight our most remarkable achievements. EBITDA of EUR1.773
billion, and EBIT of EUR1.227 billion with margins aligned to guidance reflecting product mix and
the evolution of our D&A. Net profit of EUR939 million resulting in a diluted EPS of EUR5.09 and
an industrial free cash flow generation of EUR758 million.
Turning to Page 6, you can see the details of the 2022 shipments. The product portfolio over the
year included nine internal combustion engine models and three hybrid models representing 78%
and 22% of shipments, respectively. The deliveries increase was mainly driven by the Ferrari
Portofino M and the SF90 family as well as the 296 GTB and 812 Competizione, which were in the
ramp-up phase. The deliveries of the Icona pillar were lower compared to the prior year as the
Ferrari Monza phase out in Q1 and first few units of the Daytona SP3 commenced in Q4.
All geographic regions grew compared to 2021 as we continue to serve an impressive order
book across all models. As customary for Ferrari, the geographical allocation was deliberate and
followed the pace of introduction of new models, particularly Mainland China, Hong Kong and
Taiwan continued to post high double-digit growth versus the prior year. I just remind you that the
greater weight of the region is supportive in absolute value, while dilutive in terms of percentage
margins. And this is more visible in the gross profit of Q4 when Mainland China, Hong Kong and
Taiwan reached 14% of total shipments.
On Page 7, you can see the walk of our group net revenues growing 16% at constant currency. As
explained throughout the year, change in cars and spare parts was driven by higher volumes and
personalization. Personalizations were at around 18% in proportion to revenues from cars and
spare parts. Engines was negative, in line with the reduction of supplies to Maserati, which will
stop in 2023. Sponsorship, commercial and brand reflected the better prior year Formula 1
ranking and the contribution from lifestyle activities, led by retail sales and museums visitors
despite lower sponsorship. Currency had a positive impact mostly related to the U.S. dollar and
the Chinese yuan.
Let's move on to Page 8 and review the change in our EBIT year-over-year, explained by the
following variances. Volume positive for EUR261 million reflecting the shipment increase of
approximately 2,000 units versus the prior year. Mix and price variance, negative for EUR16 million
mainly impacted by lower deliveries of the Ferrari Monza SP1 and SP2, partially offset by the
increased contribution from personalizations, country and range model mix. Industrial and R&D
expenses grew EUR116 million during the year due to higher depreciation and amortization as well
as direct and indirect cost inflation mainly from energy and aluminum. The latter became
particularly visible in Q4 as we supported our supply chain.SG&A were negative by EUR47 million, reflecting communication and marketing activities, lifestyle
and corporate events as well as our organizational development. Finally, other was negative
EUR49 million, mainly explained by the variance in contribution from racing activities and non-
recurring items as well as the reduced engine shipments to Maserati. This was partially offset by
better contribution from lifestyle activities. The total net impact of currency was positive for
EUR119 million [ph].
Turning to Page 19 -- 9 apologies. Our industrial free cash flow generation for the year reflects
the strong profitability and a positive contribution from working capital and other, mainly related
to the collection of Daytona SP3 and 812 Competizione on advances. This was partially offset by
EUR806 million of capital expenditure in line with guidance. In the year, the capitalization ratio of
our development expenses was 45% increase versus the prior year as we enter the
development phase on a number of future models and per effect of the budget cap in Formula 1.
Net industrial debt as of the end of December 22 was EUR207 million, decreased by EUR90
million compared to December '21, reflecting the solid industrial free cash flow generation, net of
the share repurchase program and dividend payment.
To conclude on Page 10, we outlined the guidance for 2023, which targets solid growth and
consistent progress in profitability. The main drivers are as following, mix will be extremely strong,
thanks to a very rich product portfolio, full year contribution of Ferrari Daytona SP3 and continuous
positive effect from personalization. Price will positively contribute throughout the year, in line with
the mid-single-digit price increase communicated in Q3 to counterbalance the impact of the
current cost inflation.
D&A will increase in line with the start of production of new models. Revenues from racing and
lifestyle activities will show a limited improvement. And industrial free cash flow generation will be
sustained by our profitability, partially offset by capital expenditures, slightly higher than EUR800
million, and negative working capital in its broader meaning, mainly due to lower deposits on
limited series models along with the reversal of those already collected in the previous 18
months.
The tax rate for the year is expected to be around 22%, that is higher than in 2022, mainly
because of the introduction of new rules on the patent box regime. The underlying assumption
on the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar to euro is that it will fluctuate around $1.10 [ph], implying an
overall neutral foreign exchange effect compared to 2022. This foreign exemption, together with
the net impact of price actions taken to offset energy and raw material cost increases, explains
most of the improvement in absolute terms between the 2023 guidance versus the previous
EBITDA target of EUR1.8 billion to EUR2 billion.
Percentage profitability will be growing over the course of the year, with Q1 currently expected to
be the softest quarter driven by the planned development of our product and country mix. This is
also linked to the allocation of deliveries to Mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan designed to
be front-loaded.
Lastly, cost inflation remains largely unknown. In this context, we are relentlessly executing the
strategy we outlined at the Capital Market Day as committed and focused as ever. The 2023
guidance represents another solid step on the trajectory to 2026.
With that said, I turn the call over to Nicoletta.
`Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Antonio. Sharon, we are now ready to take questions.Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) And your first question comes from the line of Stephen
Reitman from Societe Generale. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Societe Generale `
Yes. Thank you. Good afternoon. I apologize for the background noise. Two questions, please.
You commented that the order intake has been much higher than you had anticipated on the
Purosangue. Could you comment on if there are any regional differences and particularly
interested in the reaction in China to that product?
And secondly, also on China itself, we saw that China took up a larger share of total sales, quite a
strong acceleration there. Accord of the numbers I'm looking at, it seems that the growth was
driven particularly by the V8, the -- by the F8 Tributo and I guess, 296 GTB. Do you think this
already indicates an increasing desire of Chinese customers also to accept the sort of the two-
seater sports car concepts as well that -- which has obviously been maybe an issue in the past.
Thank you.
A - `Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations `
Hi. Stephen, apologies, we had some problem with the audio. Can you kindly repeat your second
question? We got the one on Purosangue. Thank you.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Societe Generale `
Yes. After Purosangue, yes. On the -- sorry, on China, again, looking at the growth of your sales in
China in 2022, according to the data I'm seeing, it looks like it was driven primarily by the F8 and
296 GTB rather than the Roma. I was just wondering, do you think this indicates a growing
acceptance of Chinese customers for the two-door -- two-seater sports car concept, which has
obviously been something that's held Ferrari back in the past, maybe in China. Thank you.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
The first one was the acceptance of the traction of Purosangue all over the region. And I have to
say two things. It has been the acceptance, it has been higher than what we were thinking, and
this is true across all the region, okay? This is one important message. The second one, coming
to the China let's say, the preference of Chinese clients toward our cars forecast. I have to say
that we don't see a special pattern because we see clients interested in our ICE as well as in our
hybrid. Consider also that we manage deliberately, the delivery of the cars for that region. But we
don't see a clear pattern of selection of car.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Societe Generale `
Thank you.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Stephen.Operator
Thank you. We will now go to our next question. One moment, please. And your next question
comes from the line of `Susy Tibaldi, UBS from UBS. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Susy Tibaldi, UBS `
Hi, good afternoon and thank you for taking my question. I have three, please. So on 2023, on the
guidance, I was wondering, should we see it as sort of a one-off super strong year, a bit like 2022
was a weaker transition year? And basically, because I look at the 2026 guidance, and I'm trying
to understand, if we should expect the growth forward -- going forward to be somewhat linear?
Or we could find a subsequent scenario where, again, we could have another transition year,
where we could see some pressure on the margin. So are you going to be able to comp this year
super strong price mix? I personally would say yes, but I will be keen to hear your view.
Secondly, on pricing, can you talk us through the philosophy on how you decide price models? I'm
asking because in the past, I remember there was this rule of thumb that each car was a bit more
expensive than the predecessor and with a higher margin contribution. And these increases were
usually a mid-single-digit. But when we look at -- if we think about the laws of supply and demand,
given this extremely strong demand that you're seeing, it feels that maybe a new approach is
needed. So I was interested to hear how you think about of setting prices for a new product?
And lastly, a shorter one on the Daytona, sort of staging that we should expect over the next few
years. Is it going to be quite evenly distributed over its life cycle? Or is it -- 2023 going to be like a
heavier year for Daytona? Thank you.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Susy. I'll take the third one and then the first and the second one will be with Antonio.
So the third one, the Daytona, we are starting as planned. And you can, yes, assume that it's
more or less evenly distributed. The first and the second, Antonio will comment more.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Hi, Susy. 2023 guidance compared to 2026. I think there are two elements that should be
taken into consideration. The first one is that we already mentioned at the Capital Market Day
that the plan is front loaded, which means basically, you cannot assume a linear development, but
it's rather a jump at the beginning and then a smoother growth.
Secondly, some of the assumptions that were outlined at the Capital Market Day, obviously need
to be updated once we get closer and closer. And one of the first is obviously the impact of
pricing compared to where we were at the Capital Market Day, we had an adjustment in Q3 that
we, I think, were public about. Another one is the impact of foreign exchange rates. I think we said
at the Capital Market Day, we had assumed $1.15 [ph] as the average U.S. dollar to euro exchange
rate. And this one is based on $1.10 [ph]. So this set of assumptions, of course, will be revised
from time to time depending on how and where we go.
The second question is on pricing strategy. I think on this we have been quite careful in defining it,
depending on the model and its distribution over time. And obviously, we are -- we take care
about the demand and the order book that we have for the various models. So the price
increases that have been applied in Q3, have been applying differently to selected markets and
models.A - `Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations `
If I may, to the next questions, I kindly ask to state clearly your questions since we are having
some audio problems. Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. I will go to the next question. One moment, please. And your next question comes
line of `Giulio Pescatore, Exane BNP Paribas from be BNPP Exane. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Giulio Pescatore, Exane BNP Paribas `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. The first one is a bit broad in general. I mean with Ferrari we
don't often think about the macro issues, because you create your own demand in a way. But if
you think about the creation of -- and concentration of wealth in the last few years, that clearly
has been a driver of demand for you. I think you're uniquely placed to have a view on this topic.
So I was wondering if you could share your thoughts on what we should expect in terms of what --
well, concentration as well in demand for the next years? And what are you assuming in your
target?
The second one, I would like to go back on pricing. You mentioned that the 2026 targets have
some assumption on pricing and you have taken pricing to offset cost, but am I right in assuming
that even if costs have to go down, I mean, you're not going to be lowering your prices, right? So
pricing should be sticky for you. Just a comment on that, please. And then last one for Antonio,
please, on the R&D expenses. What happened in Q4 because the number was very, very low.
And how should we think about this cost for 2023, please? I hope I was clear. Thank you.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Maybe, Giulio, I'll start with the second and the third one, from the last one, R&D expenses.
You're right. There are two reasons. One is that as we go more and more -- we enter more and
more into the development phase of new models, we switch from pure innovation expenses to
development expenses is obviously a different accounting treatment. So this may explain
changes in the allocation of the hours and time by our engineers. And obviously, the fact that we
are capped in terms of development costs on the chassis in 2022 has also an impact because
obviously, you spend more at the very beginning of the year and rather less at the end.
The second before last, I think, was on pricing. You are perfectly right, and thanks for adding to
my answer before because I spoke about pricing without obviously mentioning that pricing also
has to take into account where costs are going. I simply said inflation is unknown and known.
Meaning, obviously, we make assumptions in that respect. And on that basis whether right or
wrong, obviously, we try and be careful, but we cannot predict where it will go. And this is another
element to be taken into account. And that's why we do not add anything more in respect of
2026.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Coming to the first question, Giulio. As you said, our view on the concentration of wealth in the
world. Well, this is a trend that everyone can read on any newspapers. What I can tell you is that
for us, what is important is that we keep always unique and we keep always the exclusivity for our
cash. I think that what our founder said, we want to sell always one car less than the market
demand was true, is true and will be true. So concentration is happening. Yes, it's up to us what
we are doing to manage properly the demand to keep it always exclusive.Q - `Giulio Pescatore, Exane BNP Paribas `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We will now go to the next question. And your next question comes from the line of
`Michael Binetti, Credit Suisse from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Credit Suisse `
Hey guys, thanks for taking our question. Wonderful end of the year, love the guidance for '23,
obviously. Just a couple of quick ones on the model. How should we think about personalization
versus 18% in 2022 as we look out this year and you think about the mix of cars? And I'm
wondering, does this guidance include getting the Keystone sponsor back in Formula 1 that exited
last year?
And then I guess a bigger picture question as we think through the numbers. So the guidance is
for EBITDA margins around 38% this year. I think the long-term plan is 38% to 40%, obviously, this
is the kind of year that has many, many tailwinds for profitability. Most importantly, the supercar
mix is always helpful. Can you speak to what would be the upside case that would take margins
from the level you just guided us to this year at 38% to the high end of that range at 40%. What
are some of the things that are incremental to the P&L this year that would support that higher
margin range from here?
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
So Michael, Antonio will take this question. And --
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. On personalization, the way we model it is basically we assume that as a rather constant
proportion to revenues. You have seen over the last few years, we have been flat between 17%
and 19%, depending on the models. So the assumption we are making -- and I think, I mentioned
the same at the Capital Market Day. And this is obviously mostly related to the development of
the mix. The higher the price point, the lower the proportion of personalization to the overall
revenues. So it depends on the mix, basically, but that is the assumption.
With respect to the development of margins, the big jump was already there in the original
guidance and then development over time, once again, absent any consideration, any further
consideration on additional price changes and cost changes is that this will drive our trajectory to
what we mentioned and gave the guidance to 2026. So the mix is really the driver there.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Credit Suisse `
So no surprise. Okay. The marketing sponsor for Formula 1?
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
The market --
Q - `Michael Binetti, Credit Suisse `Is that includes -- is there -- is that getting the Keystone's sponsor back in Formula 1 that was
missing last year, is that included in this guidance at this time?
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
We include Michael, sorry, because we had some troubles to hear actually, the electronic is always
a problem. Sorry.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Credit Suisse `
You got to fix that by 2025.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Unfortunately, sometimes electronics, you cannot rely on it. No. The sponsorship, we keep
enlarging our sponsor base. We keep diversifying our sponsor base. And you have seen that in
the last week, so we announced new sponsors. And all the plan and the guidance that Antonio
showed you is all coherent with also what we see on the evolution of sponsorship. So all the
picture, the picture is considering all the elements, including the sponsorship evolution.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Credit Suisse `
Thank you very much guys.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Michael.
Operator
Thank you. We will now go to the next question. And your next question comes from the line of
Thomas Besson from Kepler. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Tom Besson, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Thank you very much. It's `Tom Besson, Kepler Cheuvreux, Kepler Cheuvreux. I have two simple questions, please.
Could you help us understand the pace of ramp-up for SP3 and Purosangue. You've highlighted
that mix would be the -- by far, the biggest driver for '23, it's totally clear. But I mean can you give
us some direction on the number of units planned per quarter? Is your indication that Q1 is a
softer quarter largely linked with the fact that you'll have a lower share of SP3 and Purosangue,
for instance?
And the second question, you've mentioned ForEx as neutral in '23 versus a fairly disinvesting '22.
Is it too early already to make an assumption for '24 ForEx impact? Or can we already assume
that it should be a small negative? Thank you very much. That's it for me.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
I'll take the first one and -- so the Purosangue, this is the year we are ramping up the production.
We had an important milestone end of last year that we met successfully. So we are ramping up
as -- clearly, this is the ramp-up year, so we will be lower than 20% of the total volume production,
but we will -- and we will ramp up along the four quarters so that to reach the right production
volume by end of this year. So everything is on track, and we are moving according to the plan.
Antonio, you take the second.A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. On your second question, Thomas, I think it's too early to say, honestly. Visibility is already a
complex element when looking at one year for the foreign exchange rate. Obviously, if you
compare to the average assumption that we made on 20 -- on the plan to 2026, in principle,
mathematically, yes, but reality will be a different thing, and it's too early to say now.
Q - `Tom Besson, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Okay. Thank you very much both of you.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We will now go to the next question. And your next question comes from the line of
`George Galliers, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `George Galliers, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you for taking my questions. The first two questions, I just wanted to clarify a couple of
points from earlier on the call. So earlier, you did mention that the Daytona would be relatively
evenly distributed. Can you just confirm, is that over 2023 and 2024? Or does that also include
2025?
The second question was just on the specials, at 3% of 2022 volumes that equates to around
400 units. Is that the right kind of level to think about for this year as well? Or as you ramp the
Competizione Aperta, should we expect that number to be higher?
And then the last question I had was just with respect to the other line in 2022 Obviously, it was a
negative, and you did mention some non-recurring items. Could you perhaps just quantify how
large the non-recurring items were there, and any detail on what they relate to would be much
appreciated? Thank you.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
George, I will leave the last one, the non-recurring items to Antonio. I will manage the other two
related to the product. Well, just is important clarification. When we are talking about any new
model going production, clearly, there is a ramp-up phase. And then there is a stabilization. This is
true for all the products we do. So in these years, we will ramp up these new cars, and we will
have an increase and then a stabilization over the course of year.
When I talk about every distribution, I talk about every distribution in quarters when the
production is stabilized. This is the year where we run the Daytona and also the same applies to
Purosangue as your colleague asked before. For the non-recurring items, Antonio, you can take it.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Hi, George. The nature of that -- first, do not forget this is a variance. So it means the difference
between the non-recurring of this year and the non-recurring of the previous one. Last year, we
had some positive non-recurring mainly related, if I remember all of them correctly to the release
on some provisions in respect of previous recall campaigns, so excess provisions on that. Releaseof provisions in respect of bad debt that were previously accrued. And this year, particularly in the
last quarter, has been our non-recurring costs in respect of the organization of the company. So
that is it. All in all, throughout the year, I think it amounts to -- in terms of the difference is a
negative of EUR30 million year-over-year.
Q - `George Galliers, Goldman Sachs `
Understood. Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. We will now go to the next question. And your next question comes from the line of
Adam Jonas from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - Analyst
Hi guys. This is Matthias on for Adam. But within your industrial free cash flow outlook, you
highlighted some negative working capital and rising CapEx impact. Can you dimension out each
of these for us? So in terms of like how much CapEx and what's the order of magnitude on the
working capital outflow?
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Antonio?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, sure. I mentioned earlier on that capital expenditure for 2023 is targeted to be above
EUR800 million, slightly above that number, so slightly higher compared to 2022. Working capital
is expected in its broader meaning, that is including the out -- I mean the lower cash-in coming
from the fact that we had collected deposit in advance in 2022 is in the region of EUR100 million
or so.
Q - Analyst
Great. Thank you for that. And then as a follow-up, for the Purosangue, you lost some cost
inefficiencies in the prior year, but there will also be some ramp-related costs this year, I presume.
So it's not really clear whether the year-over-year impact on adjusted operating margins is going
to be positive, negative or neutral. So how should we think about the Purosangue impact on
margins for this year? Thanks.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
I take this question about the Purosangue. What I would like to underline is that here in Ferrari, the
product development process is very robust. So thanks to our -- the way we qualify, we validate
the cars, any new car we have. I mean when we go in production, the product is very well tested
and is mature. So we do not expect any surprise in this direction. I think this is one of the key
asset of our company, is the maturity and the stability of the product development process.
Q - Analyst
Great. Thank you so much.
OperatorThank you. We will now go to our next question. And your next question comes from the line of
`Martino de Ambroggi, Equita from Equita. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Martino de Ambroggi, Equita `
Thank you, and good morning. Good afternoon, everybody. On the guidance, I know very well,
you do not provide any volume guidance. But am I right in assuming volumes ex Purosangue
roughly similar to last year in '23 or slightly up, plus the Purosangue, considering Daytona will
offset Monza. And on the free cash flow, you already answered, Antonio, on the net working
capital. Could you split the impact of down payments that you have underlining your guidance?
And if this kind of down payments will become mainly recurring going forward? Or should we see
a decline at a certain point?
And if I may, very last on the single-digit price increase, offsetting inflation. So roughly EUR200
million inflation, but you also mentioned during the call, that the cost inflation is unknown. So I was
wondering if you were referring to next years or also the current year, and specifically, I ask you if
you have any comment on the cost of labor because we know -- the negotiation is ongoing in
Italy. So it takes probably time and you cannot talk about, but just to understand what you can
comment about it? Thank you.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Martino, I leave the second one is the most difficult one to Antonio. Now the first one, I
understand your curiosity to understand what we will do exactly. And I would do the same thing in
your shoes. Also, you cannot -- we cannot disclose exactly what we want to do by each specific
model. So we have to wait still 12 months to see what we will do in 2023 in this direction. The free
cash flow and the other question, I will leave to Antonio.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
I'll be disappointing, Martino, for a number of reasons. Now, first, in terms of your question on
working capital, I can't give you the exact size of the negative outlook on the deposits. And going
forward, our assumption obviously depends on the mix that we are assuming year after year
because as you know, we collect deposits on strictly limited series. So it very much depends on
how many we will have for sale in each single year and we'll start collecting in advance.
I said at the Capital Market Day that I remember very clearly that I mentioned the fact that over
the planned period, this is going to be a wash. So there are years when we collect more and
others where we have relative outflows, meaning less collections than it could have been
otherwise.
The second question, I think, was in respect of inflation. I said, it's a known-unknown. Obviously,
when we make price adjustment, we look at the future -- we try and look at the future and make
our best guess based on the data points that we obviously have, I mean, so we have
assumptions. Then reality will be different by definition.
In respect of labor cost, obviously, even there, we made an assumption, but the negotiation
around the new labor agreement is still ongoing. So we'll see what the final outcome is, we made
assumptions around the number, which is what we currently think is more probable. But I cannot
be more specific on this.
Q - `Martino de Ambroggi, Equita `Operator
Thank you. We will now go to the next question. One moment please. And your next question
comes from the line of `Tom Narayan, RBC from RBC. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Tom Narayan, RBC `
Hi, yes. `Tom Narayan, RBC, RBC. Thanks for taking the questions. My first one has to do with
electrification. I was curious if there was any updates post the June Capital Markets Day especially
related to the new e-building development. And with electrification, we get this question a lot,
but just wondering how you would respond to what is Ferrari's kind of method of distinguishing
itself with electrification. And obviously, you can enhance the product, but just love some color on
that.
We've heard that it's ultimately has to do with exclusivity, too, as a luxury retailer. If Hermes was
forced to not sell leather bags and then other substrate people would still buy Hermes bags
regardless. But I'd just love to hear more on how Ferrari can use electrification to enhance its
product offering? And then the second question is just a quick one. Capital return. How do you
think about capital return specifically as it relates to share buybacks? Thanks.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Thank you, Tom. I'll take the first two and the last one, Antonio will comment. So the
electrification, you may remember that in June last year, we said that we will unveil our electric --
Ferrari electric cars in 2025. And what I can tell you that we are fully on track with our -- with the
project. The team did a lot of progress in the second half of the year. And we work a lot here on
many dimensions when it comes to efficiency and the supportiveness of the car that are going to
use this, let's say, engine and axle.
We also said that we will do internally, manufacturing internally, strategic component. What does it
mean? We will do internally in our e-building. By the way, if you come here, you will see it growing
pretty fast. I was there this morning with the responsible of the infrastructure, and it's growing like
a mushroom. This you can see, in this building, we will do the axle, will do the inverter. And we will
also assembly the cell to make our own battery. So the building as the product is proceeding as
planned. And I have to say that this is, let's say, the result, as I said also in my part of all the work
of all the team that is fully dedicated to this important project.
Now, when you talk about any technology, what is important is not the technology, but the way
you use the technology. And here, in Ferrari, when we've developed the cars, we always make
them unique, distinctive looking at three dimension, the design, the performance and the driving
trails. What we are doing constantly, when we develop these electric cars, we keep in mind that
we have to start from the client, the client is the center, and we have to start from the driving
trails. So when it comes to acceleration, braking, gearbox, sound, all these are dimensions that
we are developing. And keep in mind during the -- for electric car.
So the product strategy as well as the use of technology as well as all the infrastructure that we
need to produce. Well, this is according to the plan, and there is no surprise. And we are, to say,
satisfied where we are and we keep pushing. Antonio?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
With respect to the strategy and capital return. For that, we should get back to what I explained at
the Capital Market Day, meaning over the planned period, we thought our cash generation hasbeen largely deployed for return to shareholders, 50% in the form of larger dividends and 50%
approximately in terms of share buyback. We also mentioned that depending on the evolution of
the plan, we could have adjusted or confirmed the plan, but this is what we outlined in terms of
target for the next four years.
Q - `Tom Narayan, RBC `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We will now get to our next question. And your next question comes from the line of
`Anthony Dick, Oddo Securities - ODDO BHF from Oddo BHF. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Anthony Dick, Oddo Securities - ODDO BHF `
Hi. Thanks for taking my questions.
A - `Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations `
Apologies, Anthony. Your line is very quiet. Can you please speak up?
Q - `Anthony Dick, Oddo Securities - ODDO BHF `
Yes. Can you hear me?
A - `Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations `
Your line is still very quiet.
Q - `Anthony Dick, Oddo Securities - ODDO BHF `
Is it better now?
A - `Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations `
Perfect. Thank you.
Q - `Anthony Dick, Oddo Securities - ODDO BHF `
Okay, sorry about that. Yeah, my first question was a clarification on the Daytona SP3. And at the
time of the release, your commercial team was quoted in the press --
A - `Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations `
Apology Anthony. Apologies to stop you, we really have some problem. Can you talk a bit slower
and make sure that you split all the words? Thank you.
Q - `Anthony Dick, Oddo Securities - ODDO BHF `
Yes. Just a second. I guess on the Daytona SP3, at the time of the release, your commercial team
was quoted in the press saying that you targeted in 2024 for the deliveries of the Daytona SP3. I
was just wondering if that was a timeline that you still had in mind? And the second question was
on the Formula 1 business. I was just wondering if you could provide more color on the outlook,
both on the top line and the bottom line for that business? Because, well, the sponsorshiprevenue is obviously a bit hard to predict, but I don't know if you were expecting to sign or
sponsorships in 2023?
And then with the increased revenues coming from the commercial rights owner and also
reduced costs from the engine freeze. I'm just wondering what kind of incremental EBIT
contribution we can expect over the coming years from that line of business? Thank you.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Antonio will start from the second.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Maybe I'll start from the second. If I get all the -- all your question right. With respect to the
evolution of the revenues, we said, we expect 2023 to be very much in line with 2022. So no
major changes there. With respect to the development of the cost base on the chassis in the
budget cap on the chassis, there have been some adjustment for the inflation. So you may
expect that it is going to lead to higher expenses there. While what is frozen in terms of
development of the power unit is just the development cost, not the running cost, okay? So I
wouldn't mention more than that, but I think I'll give you the -- some data points.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Question, if I understand well, Anthony, was about the life cycle of Daytona. Well, we do not
disclose this kind of detail. But I mean, you can try to make a model based on the previous Icona,
but as you can understand, these are very important information that we like to keep here a little
bit protected.
Q - `Anthony Dick, Oddo Securities - ODDO BHF `
Okay. Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. We will now go to our last question. And your last question comes from the line of
`Daniel Roska, Bernstein from Bernstein. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Daniel Roska, Bernstein
Thanks for squeezing in my question at the end. I've got a strategic one more on the brand
extension. Could you comment on how you think that the target groups for the luxury sports cars
on one end and then for the extension of luxury lifestyle products and events on the other hand,
how do they kind of overlap? Or how do they not overlap and kind of enhance each other?
Thanks.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you for this question, Daniel. I think that I mean during the Capital Market Day, we said that
we are operating with our luxury car. We are operating in a small part. There is a much bigger part
in the luxury space that is untapped by us. We are talking about a part that is remarkable. The
estimation we exchange, we view at the time was around the $300 billion, and we see also
according to the latest result that is growing.
So it's important for us that since we believe Ferrari is a way of living that goes beyond the sportwe are addressing. This is very, very important. And that's the reason why, let's say, we are very
determined and committed for this year to a larger customer base and also to enhance and to
offer new experience and also a new product. So this is very, very important, and this is one of
the important priority of 2023.
Q - `Daniel Roska, Bernstein
In that context, maybe, what are you expecting from your dealers? Do you envision kind of format
changes? Do they need to move more to city centers kind of what's the relationship of that
lifestyle extension and kind of your traditional retail outlet, how do you bring that together?
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
I think, look, the dealer and let's say, we put together the sports car and the lifestyle when it
makes sense to put them together in event and experience that are going across all the brand.
This does not imply that we have always to put together the two dimension in every space where
we operate, okay? So clearly, we aim to make the experience of our client in our dealership more
and more luxury. This is one fact. This does not mean that we will sell hats in the dealership, okay?
Q - `Daniel Roska, Bernstein
Brilliant. Thanks very much.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. I will now hand back the conference to `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer for final remarks.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Thanks to all of you for your time today and for your questions. 2022 has been a year
rich of events and achievements and sets a robust foundation for this year, for 2023. And we look
at it with even greater enthusiasts, energy and confident humility. I wish you all a good afternoon,
and thanks a lot for your attention. Thank you so much.
Operator
Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now
disconnect.