Q4 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Ferrari 2023 Full Year Results
Conference Call and Webcast. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. After the
speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions)
Please note that today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your speaker, `Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations, Head of Investor
Relations. Please go ahead.
`Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, and welcome to everyone who is joining us. Today, we plan to cover the Group's Full
Year 2023 operating results and 2024 guidance and the duration of the call is expected to be
around 60 minutes. Today's call will be hosted by the Group CEO, Mr. `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer; and
Group CFO, Mr. `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer. All relevant materials are available in the Investors section
of the Ferrari corporate website, and at the end of the presentation, we will be available to
answer your questions.
Before we begin, let me remind you that any forward-looking statements we might make during
today's call are subject to the risks and uncertainties mentioned in the Safe Harbor statement
included on Page 2 of today's presentation, and the call will be governed by this language.
With that said, I'd like to turn the call over to Benedetto.
`Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Gracias, Nicoletta, and thank you everyone for joining us today. 2023 will be remembered. There
is a year in which we accomplished many achievements and we strengthened our brand across
each of its three souls, racing, sports cars, and lifestyle. For this, I would like to thank all the
women and men of Ferrari for their outstanding work, all our clients for their continuous trust inour brand, and all our partners, suppliers, dealers and sponsors with whom we have continued to
strengthen our relations.
Among the many achievements realized in 2023, I'd like to mention three. The first, historic
victory Le Mans. The second is the five new model launches further enriching our beautiful
product offering together with a variety of new client engagement experiences. And last but not
least, the new iconic bag, a Maranello Clutch that stems out to the cooperation between
colleagues in Maranello belongs to sports car team and those in Milan of our lifestyle department.
These achievements are reflected in our record full year financial results across all metrics.
So let's start reviewing together a few key numbers of year 2023. Revenues were at
approximately EUR6 billion, EBITDA at EUR2.28 billion with record yearly EBITDA margin of 38.2%,
net profit, first in our history, well over EUR1 billion threshold, with a remarkable net profit margin
of 21%, and industrial free cash flow generation of approximately EUR930 million, of which about
EUR800 million distributed to shareholders between dividends and share buyback.
And now, after the numbers, let's deep dive into our racing activities. Winning the 24 Hours of Le
Mans was an unforgettable day for our history. I was there and I will never forget June 11
afternoon because it saw our victorious return to the top class of the World Endurance
Championship on the centenary of this legendary 24 Hours race. The Ferrari 499P win was a true
team effort. Every area, every area of our company worked together to contribute to our
hypercar success. And I'm really proud of everyone. As we say, we are and we act as one Ferrari.
In Formula 1, we fought till the very last race. Even though the last season has been a difficult one,
often short on satisfaction, we know we must continue to work tirelessly to return to the level that
our tifosi rightly expects of us and we look forward to it.
The continuous will to progress and strive for excellence in racing and everything we do testify
our effort and our willingness to always push the boundaries of technology and innovation
audaciously. And this leads me to the achievements we reached in our sports car. In 2023, we
unveiled five new models out of the 15 models announced at 2022 Capital Market Day. Three
models for the road, the Roma Spider, the SF90 XX Stradale and SF90 XX Spider. They all raised
the bar of technology and design still further to meet and exceed the desires of our clients. And
two models for the truck. During the Finali Mondiali at the Mugello circuit last quarter, we unveiled
the 296 Challenge in the 499P Modificata, both of which will set new benchmarks in trucks driving
trails of our most passionate racing clients.
Consistently and coherently, we follow our strategy of Different Ferrari for Different Moments,
Different Ferrari for Different Speed. This year, we continued to engage with our clients with many
experiences on the road and on the track. I refer to unique and truly engaging locations such as
the Finali Mondiali, our Cavalcades, the Legacy Tour, our Legacy Tours, to mention just a few of
them. These are all experiences which continue to bond our community even further and evoke a
true sense of belonging. These exclusive events enable our clients, our tifosi, and enthusiasts to
interact with the brand and live experiences together.
2023 has been a year of learning for our lifestyle activities which have shown positive indicators
among which improved retail performances, successful activation in conjunction, and this is reality,
in conjunction with racing and brand events and record museum visitors. In fact, 740,000 brand
lovers visited our museums in Maranello and Modena in the years, almost 20% more people than
one year ago, confirming the strength of the brand and the passion of our community.
Throughout all the years -- throughout 2023, we have also done relevant progresses in ourand by 16% versus 2021. We built our first prototype engine from recycled aluminum. We also
installed solar panels, providing an extra 2.4 megawatt peak power compared to last year. An
additional 1 megawatt peak power will become available in the coming months from the
renewable energy community. The first ever energy community in Italy to be backed by an
industrial company for the benefit of its local area. And this is only one demonstration of the
moral obligation we feel to give back to local community.
All of these developments, as well as the record result, have been possible thanks to the passion
and dedication of all my colleagues here. And to reward their achievement, in line with the
company's strong performance indicator, I am pleased to announce the yearly competitive award
of up to nearly EUR13,500 for all our employees.
We are also proud to mention the additional four welfare initiatives that we have announced last
November 13, a broad-based share ownership plan for our 5,000 plus employees, the extension
of health checkups, the parenting support, as well as the 250 new hires. On top, we have also
received the EQUAL-SALARY certification on a global level for the first time, a result we can all be
proud of.
2023 was characterized by global tensions, geopolitical conflicts, supply chain disruption and cost
inflation. All challenges, we have learned a lot from. Our flexibility, our agility, together with the
constant support of our clients and partners allow us to look at 2024 with confidence. Such
confidence also derives from the positive momentum that we continue to experience.
Notwithstanding the current challenging macroeconomic environment, the vitality of our business
is once again confirmed by the order book on current models, which remain strong across all
geographies and covers the entire 2025. During last month, I've been visiting several dealerships
in Europe, USA and different countries in Asia. And I can tell you that the traction of our brand is
really strong. You can really breathe it. When you meet our clients into the dealership and you see
how they interact with our dealers, you can easily understand their strong attachment to our
brand.
Our dealerships are a great point of aggregation for our clients and events organized by our
dealers help to give a boost to the spontaneous aggregation of our loyal clients. The residual
values remain sound with different dynamics in the region and normalizing from the peaks
registered in the post-pandemic period when a lack of new product boosted them. The visibility
granted by the order book gives us the confidence to look at the future but at the same time, we
need to keep always four wheels on the ground.
Confident humility and will to progress have been our and will be our North Star during the
execution of our business plan. Following an initial phase of our business plan characterized by
revenues and profitability expansion, in 2024 we continue to grow our top line while consolidating
percentage margins which we expect to further expand towards the end of the current business
plan. The record result of 2023, the exceptional visibility on our order book and the extraordinary
performance of our business allow us to look at the high end of the 2026 target with stronger
confidence.
But beyond the record numbers, what to expect in 2024 from us? In Racing, our DNA, we will
compete at the top in Formula 1 and Endurance. We have recently confirmed the World
Endurance Championship team and in Formula 1, we have reinforced the technical team and
expanded the manufacturing area which is already up and running. And during the last weekend,
we won the 24 Hours of Daytona in GTD Pro cars with our 296 GT3 cars. Definitely, a great startto the 296 careers. On top, we have just announced that we are expanding our presence in the
racing world with the intention of setting records also by racing on the seas of the entire world.
In Sports Cars, we will inaugurate the e-building in June, exactly two years later than the last
Capital Market Day. We will further enrich the product offering with three new model launches and
we will continue to enhance our client experiences both on track and on road, not only on brand
new cars, but also taking care of Ferrari's owning preowned models with tailored events. In our
history, we crafted about 250 different models of Ferrari and for us, they are all equally important.
They are all our kids.
In Lifestyle, in 2024 will be the year of progress with an array of activities designed to build the
scale while elevating and expanding visibility. Among our priorities, we continue to focus on our
carbon neutrality journey which is further boosted by the ultimate goal to shut down the three
generators within the next 18 months. We look ahead at 2024 with energy, agility, and confident
humility, but above all with enthusiasm for the new, exciting challenges in front of us.
And now, I hand over to Antonio to review the 2023 result and 2024 guidance.
`Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Benedetto, and good morning or afternoon to everyone joining us today. Starting on
Page 7, we present the highlights of the results for the entire 2023. As Benedetto just mentioned,
2023 was another record year for our company, with all financial metrics once again growing
double-digit and with a significant margin expansion of 3 percentage points at the EBIT level and
even more at the EBITDA level.
Even if our four-year plan from the last Capital Market Day is rather front-loaded by design, such
results went beyond (Technical Difficulty) expectations considering the modest shipments
increase and inflation headwind affecting our input costs. A visible real-life application of the
obsession to privilege value upon volume and to control allocations to promote exclusivity.
Let's dive into the details to try and shed some light on our path forward. Our strong business
performance in 2023 was sustained by three main factors, a rich product mix per se, further
emphasized by a surprisingly strong personalization uptick coupled with a favorable country mix.
These led to revenues up 17%, adjusted EBITDA growing roughly 28.5%, that is EUR500 million
with a very solid margin standing at 38.2%, adjusted EBIT up approximately 32% with a yearly
record 27.1% margin, net profit of EUR1,260 billion, leading to an adjusted diluted earnings per
share of EUR6.9 from less than EUR5.1 last year. Of a particular note was the industrial free cash
flow generation, which reached EUR932 million.
Moving to Page 8, you can see the details of the full year shipment. In the year, deliveries
increased less than 450 units after two post-pandemic years of strong double-digit increase. As
usual, geographies reflect our choices of volume and product allocation in the different markets.
EMEA and the Americas were up versus prior year, representing more than 70% of our total
shipments. Rest of APAC was almost flat at 17% and Mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan
reduced their share by EUR0.02 of units to 11%, in line with our long-term targets for this area,
considering its relative use and evident dilution impact on our percentage margins.
Shifting to the product, the most significant change in the year was the doubling of the hybrid
share to 44% of the total volumes, underpinned by the growth of the SF90 and 296 families. The
highly anticipated Purosangue ramped up during the second half of the year to finally reach its
cruising altitude in 2024. The Roma Spider, which was unveiled in the first quarter, already
commenced delivery in the last quarter of 2023. Special series represented by the 812Competizione family increased compared to one year ago, thanks to the deliveries of the Aperta
version, while the Daytona SP3 shipments continued according to our plans between 30 and 40
units per quarter. Lastly, in the year, the F8 family concluded its lifecycle with the Portofino M, who
was also approaching its end.
On Page 9, you can see the net revenues bridge posting a robust 17% growth versus prior year
also at constant currency. The increase in cars and spare parts was evidently the main contributor,
driven by the richer mix, personalizations, pricing and slightly higher volumes. Price increases
during the year were differentiated by product and geography in accordance with the decisions
taken in the second half of 2022 to protect our margins from the surge of inflation.
Personalizations continued to strengthen and in the last quarter, we witnessed a consolidations of
the trend registered in the first nine months. In 2023, personalization stood at approximately 19%
in proportion to revenues from cars and spare parts mainly driven by paint, liveries and the use of
carbon.
Sponsorship, commercial and brand reflected higher sponsorships including Formula 1 and World
Endurance Championship racing activities, higher Formula 1 commercial revenues and the better
ranking achieved in 2022 compared to 2021, as well as the growing contribution from Lifestyle
activities. Engine's revenues declined in line with the reduction of supplies to Maserati whose
contract expired at the end of 2023. Therefore, from the first quarter 2024 onward, any residual
contribution from the sales of engines and spare parts, whether for sports cars or racing will be
reported in the bar named Other. Currency had a small negative net impact, mainly reflecting the
opposite dynamics of the US dollar, Japanese yen and Chinese yuan.
Moving to Page 10, the change in adjusted EBIT is explained by the following variances: volume
positive and reflecting the limited increase in shipment; mix and price, also positive and very
strong for EUR461 million, thanks to very favorable product mix sustained by the Daytona SP3, 812
Competizione and the SF90 families; country mix driven by the Americas and Mainland China,
Hong Kong and Taiwan despite the small decrease in deliveries in the year and to the increased
contribution from personalizations and pricing.
Industrial and R&D expenses grew EUR166 million, mainly due to higher depreciation and
amortization, cost inflation and higher Formula 1 expenses. SG&A were negative for EUR43
million, mainly reflecting the continuous development of the company's digital infrastructure and
organization. In addition, we kept on adding resources to enhance our brand investment, which
encompassed all our marketing, lifestyle and other initiatives designed to enhance the brand
recognition among clients.
Other was positive for EUR81 million, combining higher Formula 1 commercial revenues as well as
better ranking in 2022 versus 2021, new sponsorships, higher contribution from lifestyle activities
and certain releases of provisions already discussed during the year. The total net impact of
currency was positive for EUR15 million. With the positive net support of these variances, we
reached the yearly records of EBITDA and EBIT margins that we commend.
Turning to Page 11, our industrial free cash flow generation was remarkable in the year reaching
EUR932 million, reflecting the increased profitability, partially offset by financial charges and taxes
and most of all, capital expenditure for EUR869 million increased in line with the pace of
development of our products and infrastructure. We already flagged significant increase in the
working capital, which reflects both the inventory expansion built to protect our delivery plans and
the enriched product mix.Net industrial debt at the end of December improved below the EUR100 million mark, reflecting
the robust industrial free cash flow generation, partially offset by our initiatives to reward
shareholders. Dividends and buyback were worth approximately EUR800 million altogether,
implying a distribution of roughly 85% of the industrial free cash flow generation.
Finally, let's move to Page 12. Building upon the visibility we enjoy, we outlined the guidance for
2024 as a further solid step towards our target for the years to come. Let me explain the drivers
sustaining 2024 along the growth trajectory that we have designed. On sports car, product and
country mix will be positive and much more (Technical Difficulty) and volume once again with an
increased contribution from the Daytona SP3 and a constant personalization rate. Commercial
revenues from racing in Formula 1 will be affected by the lower ranking achieved in 2023
compared to 2022 despite a higher number of races in the 2024 calendar.
Lifestyle activities will continue to increase their support to the top line while investing a larger
share of resources to speed up the pace of development. Cost inflation is expected to persist
through the supply chain and SG&A will increase in line with revenues due to continuing brand
investment and digital development. The above will contribute to the further profitability
expansion while we expect inflation, brand and infrastructural expense as well as increased
Formula 1 spending due to the higher budget caps to flatten our percentage margin in line with
2023.
The industrial free cash flow generation will be sustained by our profitability, partially offset by
capital expenditure of approximately EUR950 million as many projects will enter in their advanced
stage of development, a still negative change in working capital in its broader meaning, mainly
due to lower net advances collected from clients and increased tax payments proportional to the
growth of our income in 2023. The underlying assumption on the US dollar exchange rate is that it
will fluctuate around 1.1, implying a negative FX impact compared to 2023, including hedges.
That said, we are obviously conscious of the stronger business performance recorded so far
despite the higher cost inflation. Such performance has been driven by the product mix, which will
remain rich over the business plan, and has been further enhanced by both the actions on pricing
and the exceptional demand for personalization. For sure, we continue to stay focused on pricing
and product enrichment. And reassured by the visibility granted by our order book, we affirm the
confidence into the high end of our 2026 target, as Benedetto just said.
I thank you for your attention, and I now turn the call over to Nicoletta.
`Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Antonio. We're now ready to open the Q&A session.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We are now going to proceed with our first question. And the
questions come from the line of John Murphy from Bank of America Securities. Please ask your
question. Your line is opened.
Q - `John Babcock, Analyst, Bank of America Securities `
Hey, good morning. This is `John Babcock, Analyst, Bank of America Securities actually on the line for John Murphy. Just quickly, you
talked about doubling the hybrid share from 2022 to 2023, from 22% of shipments to 44%. Outof curiosity, do hybrids tend to be favorable for mix? And then also, can you talk about what the
customer reception has been to hybrid engines and if this is something they're asking for?
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. I will comment about this. Yes, it's true. We doubled our share of hybrid. This testifies that
we are able, in Ferrari, to use the technology in a way that is unique. Coming back to the specific
question, I would say that -- two points. Number one, the profile of the customer using this
technology is not so much different from the one using the thermal traditional cars. And number
two, profit-wise, they are in the same ballpark as all the other cars. For us, each car is a business
initiative and all of them have to deliver according to our standards.
Q - `John Babcock, Analyst, Bank of America Securities `
Okay. Appreciate that. And then also, just given what's going on in the Red Sea, could you just
quickly discuss if this is creating any challenges for Ferrari?
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
The challenge, the Red Sea is basically, we don't see it at all. We double-check with our suppliers.
There is nothing that is impacting us. So no impact on our production or delivery of cash.
Q - `John Babcock, Analyst, Bank of America Securities `
Okay. That's great to hear. All right. That's all I have for now. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We are now going to proceed with our next question. And the questions come from
the line of `Michael Binetti, Analyst, Evercore ISI from Evercore ISI. Please ask your question. Your line is opened.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Hey guys, congrats on finishing up a terrific year. Thanks for taking our questions here. I guess first
off, could you -- Antonio, could you give a little context around the guidance for free cash flow
lower this year? Is there -- I'm wondering if there's an acceleration in some of the development
spend and maybe any delta in the deposits for supercars included in the free cash flow outlook
or excluded.
And then on personalization, maybe just a little bit on the strategy there going forward. After a
really good year on personalization last year, is there an opportunity to take some pricing to help
offset some of the cost increases that you're seeing across the business there?
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Hi, Michael. I think the second one, the FCF-related question, Antonio will elaborate. So yes, the
personalization -- I mean we are a luxury company (Technical Difficulty). We have two vectors.
Personalization is an important vector of growth for us and it offers also an opportunity for pricing
up. And we started this year to review the price up in the mid-digit area. So personalization
important? Yes. Two, we are going to catch the price for this important dimension.
The free cash flow, Antonio?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `I try and explain three reasons. The first is clerical, we're just paying more taxes. The second one
is we are spending more on CapEx EUR950 million is what we have in mind for the year. And this
is just because we have products that are now very close to their launch and number of products.
And the third is the deposit cycle. This is just timing basically. There are -- I mean, we collected
quite a bit in 2022 and 2023. We have kind of net reversal and in addition, some new advances
collecting in 2024. But the impact overall is negative, modestly negative.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Okay. I guess if I could squeeze one more in, what's -- I guess with the e-building still on track for
mid-year, Benedetto, can you tell us what we'll see early on as far as -- as you guys start to
commercialize that? What are some of the first things we'll see from outside the company as you
guys start to look to commercialize that?
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
This morning, me and Antonio, were in the e-building. So we are on track. It will be up and running
starting this June. And this will be a place where we will assemble not only electric car. Electric car,
as you know, will be ready if we are on track for Q4 2025. So also in the electrification journey, we
are fully on track with our plan.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Thank you. Thanks again, guys.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Michael.
Operator
Thank you. We are now going to proceed with our next question. And the questions come from
the line of `Susy Tibaldi, Analyst, UBS from UBS. Please ask your question.
Q - `Susy Tibaldi, Analyst, UBS `
Hello. Good afternoon. I have three. I'll ask one at a time. So first one on the demand. Within the
luxury sector, we are seeing some softening of demand but it appears that the higher end
exposed to the wealthier cohort is still doing extremely well. And it seems also from your opening
remarks that based on residual values on feedback from dealers, you're not really seeing
anything. But just to double check, is the economic picture at the moment having any impact at all
on the Ferrari customer? Is there any comment, any additional color you can provide?
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Look, as we said in the call myself and also Antonio, the demand (Technical Difficulty) is pretty
strong. It goes well into 2025, till the end of 2025, in some cases even more. We do not see any
negative signal, particular negative signal on this topic. We keep, let's say, doing as planned.
Clearly, there is not -- in our client base, there is not an impact in any kind of -- in any respect, so.
Q - `Susy Tibaldi, Analyst, UBS `
Thanks.A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
(Multiple Speakers) If you want also a little bit more color, we had the Dealer Annual Meeting end
of November. We have been visiting several dealerships in USA, in Asia and different countries in
Europe, and there is really a strong traction toward our brand.
Q - `Susy Tibaldi, Analyst, UBS `
Thanks. On the margin guidance for 2024, which basically implies flattish margin. I wanted to
understand if your core cars and spare parts business is also seeing flattish margins or perhaps
that core business is seeing some underlying improvement but then is offset by the dilution of
some of the other segments where you are choosing to invest a little bit more. So it'll be quite
interesting to understand the dynamics in your various segments.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
That is for Antonio.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
That is, in fact, the explanation, Susy. I'll try and explain it. So, our product mix and personalization
are obviously (Technical Difficulty) but we expect the cost base below that to impact us and to
flatten the margins. If we wish, within the cost of goods sold, it's just the budget cap which is
growing on the F1 racing activities that is growing year after year and that's biting in the upper
side of the P&L.
Q - `Susy Tibaldi, Analyst, UBS `
Okay. And last question. For 2024, when we think about the phasing, is it fair to assume that the
year is going to be a little bit more front-end loaded given the mix evolution or is it going to be
quite similar quarter-on-quarter?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
I don't see a significant difference yet. And there might be nuances, but not significant change.
No significant changes. Usually, Q4 remains slightly softer, particularly in terms of volume
allocations. But as of now, nothing to flag.
Q - `Susy Tibaldi, Analyst, UBS `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
I said the fourth floor in the quarter first. Sorry.
Operator
Thank you. We are now going to proceed with our next question. And the questions come from
the line of `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale from Societe Generale. Please ask your question.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Yes. Good afternoon. Again, congratulations for the very strong result. Also congratulate you also
the quality of the result. We certainly noticed that the positive impact from R&D capitalization wasconsiderably lower in 2023 than in 2022 or '21. So points of a higher quality there is what I think.
Question, you mentioned about the Purosangue has now gotten to a cruising speed in terms of
production. Does that suggest that we are on track to see that reach the 20% of the sort of
annual sales? Because it looks like in 2023, it was only in the hundreds, so that would be a
considerable ramp up. And if you could comment on what the personalization levels are looking
like, I imagine that people are paying a lot of money in terms of personalization in order to secure
build slots as well for these, in terms of to make their orders attractive.
And secondly, if you could comment on China, you did mention that you are strategically looking
at that market in terms of also managing, in terms of the margin implication on sales in China. But
I think there was an expectation that sales were going to maybe increase a little bit in the fourth
quarter because they'd be deferred from the third quarter in 2023. But we actually saw quite a
big drop in the fourth quarter. So I'm just wondering if you could say, are there any issues about
the sort of, like, the demand in that market as well? Thank you.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Steve. And thank you also for the congratulations that we will pass to all the team that
made it possible. Coming back to the story of the Purosangue. In 2023, we shipped a few
hundreds Purosangue. In 2024, we will be at a cruising speed that is 20% of the total. So,
basically, your assumption, your calculation, are pretty in line with our plan.
The personalization.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
But if I may, Benedetto, just to complete on that, I wouldn't focus on 20% of each single year. We
said 20% of the yearly sales on average when we communicated around the Capital Market Day.
So don't take that as -- I mean, mathematically, even if Benedetto is a mathematician.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, we are. (Multiple Speakers).
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Thanks so much.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
This is (Multiple Speakers).
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale `
(Multiple Speakers).
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
No, look, the story of Purosangue personalization, Stephen, clearly the Purosangue offers a lot of
degree of the personalization. We see clients that are looking at the rims, the liveries, the
painting, the roof. So there are some opportunities over there. And last year, we have been
working a lot to strengthen our supply chain for all the personalization that the car is offering to all
the clients.The second question was about China. Well, China for us, I would like to say that there are three
words about China. The number one for us is a young market. Young market, it means that the
client, let's say the number of cars that we shipped to this market is not so many. It means the
market is very young. We have to let it grow with the right speed to avoid, let me say, indigestion.
Indigestion, okay.
The second, it's a niche market still, because if you make the math, you're talking about 1,200
cars. It is written in a chart. We had a slightly decrease this year, but we are talking about a
decrease in the range of few tens of units. That since the market is small, it may look a few
percent over there.
And then the number three, we said since the beginning that we will keep China, let's say around
10%, because we believe -- because it is not margin accretive. But again, it's important that in
each country, as our history testifies, we let grow the attachment to the brand with the right
speed. Because if you grow too fast, the clients don't get used to what is Ferrari. This is what we
have done in all other countries. And this is what we intend to do also in China.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Thank you.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We are now going to proceed with our next question. And the questions come from
the line of `Tom Narayan, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets from RBC Capital Markets. Please ask your question.
Q - `Tom Narayan, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Yeah. Thanks for taking the question. Question on the strong plug-in hybrid performance. Just
curious if you could extrapolate that for the eventual BEVs full electrics that you plan to sell. Is
there really a translation there to say that consumer demand for the plugged hybrids could
potentially mean that this cohort would be interested in full electrics? Or are those buying the
plug-in hybrids just across the board, similar to your existing portfolio of customers?
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Look, we posed ourselves many times this question. We've been talking to our client directly,
indirectly through the dealers. I don't think there is any extrapolation possible in this respect. I
believe that we will have clients that will only take the red car, the ICE. We'll have clients that will
take ICE and hybrid, as today, we will have clients that will get in our family only because we have
the electric car. So I believe that we see very often the answer is that I need an electric also
because I need to go in places that will not be allowed by regulation. So I think any combination of
these three colors, red, the blue and the green, is going to be possible. And I don't think that the
hybrid car is an extrapolation.
The only thing we take as a lesson is that, I mean, looking at what happened in 2023, that if --
there is always a way to use the technology in a unique way, in the Ferrari way, that also client
skeptical at the beginning of hybrid turn to the hybrid. This is the point. I remember once I had a
breakfast with a client that was skeptical about the hybrid and then he went to try it and hebought the hybrid. And this is pretty common. So this is a confirmation that our strategy to keep
alive the three colors, the red, the blue and the green is the right one.
Q - `Tom Narayan, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Okay. Thank you. And my follow-up with obviously everyone really interested in your guys
electrification journey that will happen. Just curious if we can expect capital markets events for
investors and for ourselves as well coming up this year potentially or next year.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
This year for sure not. We are working for next year, but not for sure for this year. Only one point,
the electrification journey not will happening, is already started to happen since a while. So this is
important. This is a key message we passed on the Capital Market Day two years ago. We are
already on the electrification journey since a few years.
Q - `Tom Narayan, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Understood. Thank you.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We are now going to proceed with our next question. And the questions come from
the line of Thomas Besson from Kepler Cheuvreux. Please ask your question. Hello, Thomas, your
line is open, please ask your question. Hello, Mr. Besson, your line is open. If you can hear us, your
line is opened.
We are now going to proceed with our next question. And the questions come from the line of
`Henning Cosman, Analyst, Barclays from Barclays. Please ask your question.
Q - `Henning Cosman, Analyst, Barclays `
Yeah. Hi, good afternoon. Thank you very much for taking the question. Interesting that you're
emphasizing price and personalization so much. I'm not sure I understood you correctly,
Benedetto. Did you say you would raise price in the mid-single-digit percentage range on
personalization specifically? If you could just confirm that. And if you would also...
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Confirmed.
Q - `Henning Cosman, Analyst, Barclays `
Yeah, right. And on pricing in general, are you willing to make some comments there? I think we
recently talked a bit about the commercial opportunities on pricing in general, not just on the
personalization. I know there's always the balance, of course, not upsetting your loyal customers
who've been waiting for so long, but then again, you have opportunities because the order book
is so long already and you're virtually sold out. If you could update us on the commercial pricing
opportunities there?And then second question on personalization. If I understood Antonio correctly, the exit rate of
2023 was 19%. If I'm not mistaken, you're guiding 18% for 2024. You typically have three months
of visibility. So I was just wondering how it's trending into Q1, where I believe you have some
degree of visibility already. Is it in line with the 18% or is it still on the level of the exit rate? If that's
not too precise.
And then finally, third question on the Daytona. Antonio, confirmed again in the opening remarks,
30 to 40 per quarter. I believe you've sold around 150 so far out of the 600. So that would imply
you still have 12 more quarters to sell worth of Daytonas. That seems pretty long. So I'm
wondering if you would accelerate the Daytona volumes at some point so that it doesn't become
such a long lifecycle. Thank you very much.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Personalization and Daytona for Antonio. I take the ASPs. So, as I told you the answer
to the first question, yes, it's confirmed. We increased the price of the personalization exactly like
you understood. When it comes to the price of the cars, don't forget that last year, through all the
year we've been increasing the price. And it's also important that we consider that on the other
side, there is a client that has been, let me say, looking at Ferrari. And we have to behave
properly when it comes to the pricing increase. You already executed and we have to be
respectful of our clients.
While for personalization and Daytona, Antonio, you can.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
On personalization, you got me right. Meaning in 2023 we are almost at 19%. And 2024 is based
on an assumption that we'll maintain more or less at that rate. Visibility as of now is in that
direction. And the last question on Daytona. Yes, you're right. We expect to grow there to move
from 30, 40 to approximately 60 per quarter next year.
Q - `Henning Cosman, Analyst, Barclays `
Very good. Thank you so much.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
You're welcome.
Operator
Thank you. We are now going to proceed with our next question. And the questions come from
the line of `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Intesa SanPaolo from Intesa SanPaolo. Please ask your question.
Q - `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Intesa SanPaolo `
Good afternoon. I hope you can hear me and thanks for taking my questions. The first one is on
the EBITDA margin that you guided flattish for 2024. I understood that this is due to a cost base
related to the production of more complex product. I can imagine that there is also a weight of
the cost of labor. So I'm just wondering if you can give us some indication what is the weight of
the cost of labor on this flattish guidance. Any hint could be useful for us.
The second question is on the Lifestyle. In the preliminary remarks, Benedetto anticipated that
you are expecting an increase in the Lifestyle revenues. Can you please help us to figure outgrowth rate for 2024?
And third question is on the advances from SF90 XX [ph] and the Spider. I remember that in the
last call you said that you are going to collect advances on the car. I'm wondering if you can give
us any indication on the amount and on the timeframe across the year. Thank you very much.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Monica. Antonio will take one and three and then I will reply to your number two.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I apologize. I apologize you switched that. Anyway. On EBITDA margin, it's not due to the
higher cost base actually, or related to better. It's not related to the additional complexity of the
production. I mentioned basically three elements. One, cost inflation. Cost inflation is still there. It
includes cost of labor. We have an agreement in place with trade unions for an increase year-
over-year of 4%, which is embedded in these assumptions. But even component, and generally
speaking is the supply chain that is still embedded in current pricing, the impact of the inflation
that has been going through the economy in the last 12 months. So that is an element, it's not the
complexity.
The second one, expenses for brand development, including Lifestyle. Of course, we are
investing to grow the business (Technical Difficulty) and also our digital infrastructure. We are
growing and we need to grow even in that respect, including a significant rejuvenation of what we
currently use. And the last element, which is biting both cost of goods sold and R&D expense to
the P&L clearly are the expenses for the Formal 1, since the budget cap, which was originally
meant to decrease over time, is actually growing since it has been agreed among the various
teams to index spending to inflation. So year-over-year is going to have a negative impact. Okay?
Q - `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Intesa SanPaolo `
Okay.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
In terms of your last question on the advances on the SF90, yes, we are collecting. We do not
disclose yet which are the target. I just said year-over-year take into consideration that the
difference will be negative. So 2024 smaller than 2023.
Q - `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Intesa SanPaolo `
Okay.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
So Monica, for the Lifestyle, let's say 2023, three important things. Number one, we improved the
retail performances because there is more traction toward our collection. Two, we saw there is a
strong successful activation when you have event in conjunction with our racing and brand event.
And three, we had a record museum of visitors. Around 750,000 is a lot.
In 2024, if I have to define it, I define it as a year of progress because we have a list of activities
that are aiming to build the scale and also to expand the network. And let me say our network,
while if you want, we elevate the visibility of our brand. So it's a year where we are aiming to growas well. And also in this respect, we are in line with what we declared in June 2022, with our
target to double this activity, the revenues of this activity by 2026.
Q - `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Intesa SanPaolo `
Okay. Thank you, Benedetto. That's (Multiple Speakers).
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Q - `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Intesa SanPaolo `
Very helpful. If I can add just a follow-up on the country mix. You say that the country mix will keep
positive in 2024. I'm just wondering if it will be similar to the one seen in full year 2023.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. As of now, I wouldn't consider country mix being an additional positive in '24.
Q - `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Intesa SanPaolo `
Okay. Thank you very much.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
More or less (inaudible).
Q - `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Intesa SanPaolo `
Thank you.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Gracias.
Operator
Thank you. We are now going to proceed with our next question. And the questions come from
the line of `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs. Please ask your question.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Yeah. Good afternoon, and thank you for taking my questions. Obviously, one of the standouts of
2023 was the very strong price mix. And if we look at your five-year plan, you were targeting
around a EUR700 million improvement in EBIT from price mix by 2026. We're only two years into
the plan, and you've delivered close to 65% of that target. Obviously, on this call, you've been
mentioning new initiatives around personalization and pricing, and there are clearly still several
important new launches to come. So is it fair to say there is a decent amount of upside to that
original EUR700 million that you flagged back at the CMD?
Second question was also relating to something you talked about at the CMD, which was how you
were going to leverage partnerships to co-develop best-in-class solutions with respect to
electrification. I was wondering if you could give us some insight into how those partnerships have
evolved. Have there been any unanticipated challenges, and conversely, have there been anyareas where your partners have really surprised you positively? And if yes, would you be able to
give us any small examples or snippets? Thank you.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, George. I take the second one, the first one, I will ask Antonio to reply. So, you
remember very well, during Capital Market Day, we clearly said we leverage the partnership for
electrification, but also for other technologies. Because don't forget that we are making luxury
cars and there is much more than simple electrification. We are doing lots of innovation also on
hybrid cars, on thermal cars.
So, having said that, we are having a positive surprise on the willingness of the partners to work
with us. We have partners in different places going from new generation materials to new
generation, let me say, advanced electronic to advanced display. And we are having -- as I said,
we are very positively surprised by all our partners, and we are working with partners in Asia, in
USA and also in Europe.
I can mention the one that (inaudible) the one that we publicly released 11 of April was with
Samsung for the next generation cars. But there is another one I cannot mention. I can tell you
that we are working also on the way material, for the import of cars are realized because as we
said multiple times carbon, the sustainability for us is important. We want to be carbon neutral by
end of this decade. And we realize that to achieve our goal, to go, to proceed along our way, we
need to work with partners that are also involved in the material preparation. So very positive
surprise across the globe. Very happy, both because I have regular meeting with them. We are
happy on our side. They are also happy on their side. So, Antonio, you for the (inaudible).
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. Just on strong price mix, I mean, if we compare with our assumption in the Capital Market
Day, you are right, we've been doing better. And I think we flagged a number of times this year
that personalization particularly surprised us in terms of their strength. However, it's fair to say
that even the cost base has been much higher than we would have expected. The positive, of
course, is the fact that the improvement from personalization pricing has been such that allowed
us to more than offset the impact of inflation.
Now, if we look forward, is there an opportunity for an upside on personalization? If the trend
continued the way we have seen, potentially, yes. In terms of revenues, whether this will flow
through the P&L, it will very much depend on what happens to the cost base. Exactly parallels with
what happened in 2023.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Welcome.
Operator
Thank you. Due to time constraint and to keep the conference within the hour, we now end the
question-and-answer session. I will now hand back to Mr. `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer, CEO, for closing
remarks. Thank you.A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Thanks all of you for your time today and also for your question. The strong 2023
result basically are the result of our strong brand desirability and also the confidence that we are
having on this year and forward is thanks to the traction that our product have with all our clients. I
wish you a good afternoon and I thank you together with all the Ferrari team here, for your
attention and for your interest in our brand. Thank you so much.
Operator
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for
participating. You may now disconnect your lines. Thank you, and have a good day.