Q4 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Ferrari 2024 Full-Year Results
Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers'
presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) Please be
advised that today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, `Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations, Head of
Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
`Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Sandra and welcome to everyone who is joining us. Today, we plan to cover the
Group's full-year 2024 operating results and 2025 guidance and the duration of the call is
expected to be around 60 minutes. Today's call will be hosted by the Group CEO, Mr.Benedetto
Vigna; and Group's CFO, Mr.`Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer. All relevant materials are available in the
Investors section of the Ferrari corporate website. And at the end of the presentation, we will be
available to answer your questions. Before we begin, let me remind you that any forward-looking
statements we might make during today's call are subject to the risks and uncertainties
mentioned in the Safe Harbor statement, included on Page 2 of today's presentation and the call
will be governed by this language.
With that said, I'd like to turn the call over to Benedetto.
`Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Nicoletta and good morning and afternoon, everyone. '24 has been another
remarkable year for Ferrari, full of milestones, unforgettable memories and the continued growth
of our brand across each of its three souls, racing, sports cars and lifestyle. Over the last years,
we've successfully continued to execute our business plan. We did significant progress in boththe development of our infrastructure and our product offering. On the infrastructure, the e-
building, inaugurated last June is up and running and we also accelerated the construction of the
new paint shop for additional personalizations. On product offering, we are fully in line with our
business plan. We launched the three models in 2024, our supercar F80 and the two 12Cilindri
Coupe and Spider.
Our new supercar perfectly embodies our relentless will to progress and it showcases the
significant technology transfer from our racing experience to our sports cars. Indeed, the F80 is
equipped with our most powerful engine, a V6 hybrid powertrain directly derived from the 499P
that won in Le Mans for two consecutive years. The F80 will be produced in a limited series of
799 examples, already fully allocated to our collectors and it represents the eighth model
launched out of the 15 we promised to all of you at the 2022 Capital Markets Day. But the F80 is
not only the pinnacle of our innovation, it also represents a major advancement in our
electrification journey. Now, we can claim that our battery models, our electric axles, our investors
and electric engines are developed and handcrafted in Maranello, as we told you a couple of
years ago. The internalization of this know-how represents a big step forward.
All of this is done in our new e-building, a state-of-the-art infrastructure that grants us further
production flexibility. And flexibility is more crucial than ever in today's current context and this
may be even more achievable, thanks to the strong relations we have with our suppliers. 2024
has seen excellent financial results with record full-year figures across all metrics. Revenues,
revenues at approximately EUR6.7 billion, with double-digit growth versus the previous year.
Double-digit growth also in profitability, supported by an extraordinary demand for
personalization and favorable product mix, with a net profit reaching EUR1.5 billion. And then
industrial free cash flow. Industrial free cash flow generation surpassing the EUR1 billion threshold
for the first time. Everything I've mentioned so far, including the record financial results has been
made possible, thanks to the passion, the dedication of all my colleagues, the loyalty of our
clients and the steadfast support from our partners. Grazie to all.
The strength of our business is also confirmed by the order book on current models, which has
evolved as expected and covers the entire '26 with the 12Cilindri Coupe and Spider guiding the
order intake. Residual values remain sound, with different dynamics throughout the region and
models. Clearly, we are closely monitoring their trends, and in this respect, on one side, we
continue with a wise allocation strategy, and on the other side, we continue to devise even more
exclusive Ferrari experiences to further engage our clients. These experiences span from racing
days to test drives, from regional premieres to exclusive driving events. This year, we also
brought together our three souls, racing, sport car and lifestyle in a series of unforgettable
events in Miami during the Grand Prix. Why all of this? Because owning a Ferrari is much more than
just owning a car. It's about being part of an exclusive community united by shared passion.
The loyalty of our clients is testified once again by a few interesting data. In 2024, we sold
approximately 81% of our new cars to existing Ferrari clients and 48% to clients who currently own
more than one Ferrari. The passion is also shared by our wider community and is testified by
museums' visitors, which is a new record in 2024. More than 850,000 visitors coming in
Maranello and in Modena in our museums. And now let's move forward, what to expect for this
year for 2025. In Racing, we compete at the top in both Formula 1 and the Endurance
Championship. We will reinforce the team in the clear cut goal, winning. In Sports Cars, we will
further enrich our product offering with six new model launches. Don't ask me anything about the
electric, the Ferrari model that we will announce in a unique, innovative way and this will happen in
Q4. And throughout the years, we will continue to enhance our client experiences and accelerate
the development of our paint shop.And in Lifestyle, 2025 will be a year of progress with an array of activities designed to build scale
and expand our visibility. All of this is an investment, with the ultimate goal being to continue to
nurture and elevate our brand. Among our priorities, we will continue to focus on our carbon
neutrality goal by 2030. Further progress were made in 2024, with the shutdown of our highly
efficient trigeneration plant several months ahead of our initial projection of last Capital Markets
Day. Since September '24, we are no longer buying methane gas for electricity production and
relying increasingly on renewable sources. Thus, in 2025, we expect to reduce by approximately
a factor of three our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions compared to the 2021 base years. This,
again, was made possible, thanks to the commitment and dedication of all our colleagues, all
Ferrari people.
And to reward their achievement in line with the company's strong performance indicators, I'm
pleased to announce the yearly competitive award of up to approximately EUR14,400 for our
employees, as well as the confirmation of the global Equal-Salary Certification and the newly
achieved Italian certification on gender equality. We remain constantly looking forward. And
beyond -- before I leave the stage to Antonio, I would like to underline three things about this
year. One, 2025 will be another step forward in the execution of our business plan, allowing us to
look to the future with stronger confidence since we are even better positioned compared to our
initial trajectory. Two, we look ahead with a united, focused and well-grounded team ready to
embrace the future with enthusiasm and exciting challenges that lie ahead of us. Three, 2025 will
also be a great occasion to come together here in Maranello on October 9 for the launch of the
Ferrari full electric and to share with you what we envision for our future.
And now, I leave Antonio with the full-year results and the guidance for this year. Thank you.
`Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Grazie, Benedetto and good morning or afternoon to everyone joining us today. I start on Page 8
with a quick overview of the highlights of the full year. 2024 has been a very strong year with all
metrics exceeding our expectations and reaching remarkable results. I stand with Benedetto in
congratulating the team on their outstanding performance and exceptional work. Revenues and
profitability grew double-digit and this with shipments only slightly higher than last year. Product
mix and personalizations continue to strengthen. This was combined with a favorable country mix
and resulted in an EBITDA margin of 38.3%, despite continued inflationary pressure, higher racing
expenses and brand investments. Further leverage on the D&A in line with the phase-out of
several models enabled us to expand the EBIT margin to 28.3%.
Let me also highlight the net profit that reached EUR1.5 billion and corresponded to a diluted EPS
of EUR8.46, up 22.6% versus the prior year. Such an improvement encompassed nil financial
charges and a tax rate of 19.2% supported by the temporary coexistence of two Patent Box
regimes. The industrial free cash flow generation was very strong and above EUR1 billion for the
first time. This achievement is even more remarkable if we consider that in 2024 our capital
expenditure peaked at around EUR990 million. On Page 9, we analyzed our shipments for 2024,
which increased by 89 units. We had significant changes in our portfolio throughout the year. The
shipments of the Purosangue, Roma Spider and 296 GTS grew compared to the prior year as well
as those of the Daytona SP3. We commenced deliveries of the SF90 XX family and the 12Cilindri
in line with our plans.
On the other side, five models phased out, Portofino M, SF90 Stradale, A12 GTS, 812
Competizione and Roma. The hybrid share reached 51%, in line with product plans and was
mainly driven by the 296 GTS. As customary, the geographic breakdown reflects the different
product cycles as well as the company allocation strategy adopted to preserve the brand'sexclusivity. As a result, EMEA and Americas were up versus the prior year, representing close to
75% of our total shipments. Rest of APAC was almost flat at 17% and Mainland China, Hong Kong
and Taiwan reduced their share to 9%, in line with our long-term ambition for this region. On Page
10, you can see the net revenues bridge, which shows a 13.4% growth versus the prior year at
constant currency. The increase in cars and spare parts was driven by the richer product and
country mix, as well as higher personalizations. Personalizations continue to strengthen and
exceeded once again our expectations, reaching approximately 20% of total revenues from cars
and spare parts, mainly supported by the Purosangue and the Daytona SP3.
Sponsorship, commercial and brand increased, thanks to the new sponsorship for our racing
activities, among which HP as the new title sponsor of Scuderia Ferrari, as well as higher
contribution from lifestyle activities. Currencies, net of hedges in place had a negative net impact
in the year. Moving to Page 11. The change in adjusted EBIT is explained by the following variances.
Mix and price strongly positive, thanks to the enriched product mix sustained by the deliveries of
the Daytona and the 13 units of the 499P Modificata. The increased contributions from
personalizations and a positive country mix supported by the Americas. Higher industrial and R&D
expenses, largely driven by racing and innovation activities. And then SG&A increased, reflecting
the continuous initiatives in software and digital infrastructure, organizational development, as
well as brand investments. Other was strongly positive, thanks to new sponsorship and lifestyle
activities, partially offset by higher costs due to the better 2024 Formula 1 season ranking.
Lastly, even in this case, we had a negative net impact from currency. The EBITDA margin was
38.3%, while the EBIT margin reached 28.3% and benefited from the already mentioned flat
SG&A. Turning to Page 12. Our industrial free cash flow generation for the year was EUR1.27 billion.
The tailwind from the strong increase in profitability was partially offset by a negative contribution
from net working capital, provisions and other, albeit improved versus 2023, primarily driven by
an increase in inventory value, mainly due to a enriched product mix and higher trade receivables.
Higher tax payments and capital expenditures of EUR989 million, a peak within the current
business plan, in line with the advancements in product development and the accelerated
spending on the new paint shop. I'd like to highlight that an amount of more than EUR1 billion,
very close to the industrial free cash flow generation was also returned to our shareholders
through a combination of dividends and share repurchases throughout the year.
Finally, the net industrial debt was EUR180 million at the end of December 2024. Let's move to
Page 13, where we present our target, as well as the drivers for 2025. Please note that this target
sets the floor we aim to achieve. On sports cars, product and country mix will continue to be
positive, improving from an already rich 2024 baseline. While the contribution of the Daytona is
expected to gradually decrease over the year, the mix will be supported by special series and
range models, along with few initial deliveries of the F80 towards its end. Personalizations are
expected to grow in absolute terms, though stable around 20% of cars and spare parts
revenues. Racing revenues from sponsors and the commercial right holder are expected to grow,
thanks to the new sponsorship already signed, the full contribution of title partner HP and the
better ranking achieved in Formula 1 in 2024 compared to 2023.
Lifestyle activities will continue to increase their support to the top line, accelerating their growth
rate, while investing a larger share of resources to speed up the pace of development and the
expansion of the retained network. Continuous brand investment, higher racing and digital
transformation expenses, as well as higher costs implied by the ongoing supply chain challenges
allow us to develop our activities, resulting in a gradual progression of our percentage margins.
Given the above, the first half of 2025 is expected to be stronger than the second half, in line
with the development of the product mix. As to the bottom line, we estimate the effective taxrate to be higher, at around 22.5%, as we keep on benefiting from the new Patent Box regime,
while the previous ones has come to an end.
The industrial free cash flow generation will be sustained by our profitability, partially offset by a
still negative change in working capital with new deposits from clients, partly offset by the
reversal of previous year's advances, tax payments proportional to the development of our
income and CapEx of approximately EUR900 million, substantially lower than last year. The
underlying assumption on the U.S. dollar exchange rate is that it will fluctuate around 1.05, that
would be rather neutral compared to 2024, including hedges. And please note that what I have
just mentioned relies on the assumption that applicable custom duties stay unchanged. To sum
up, today's very strong set of results marks another significant step in our growth trajectory, which
we aim at continuing in 2025. Despite the ongoing uncertainty in global scenario, our unique
business model gives us strong visibility, flexibility and confidence in our future. And we look
forward to sharing our long-term vision and strategy at our Capital Markets Day on October 9.
Thank you for your attention and I will now turn the call over to Nicoletta.
`Nicoletta Russo, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Antonio. We are now ready to start the Q&A session.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We will now take the first question from the line of `Susy Tibaldi, UBS
from UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Susy Tibaldi, UBS `
Hi. Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my questions. I have two. The first one regarding your
model rollout, six new models in 2025. I was wondering, so you are anticipating your guidance by
one year. Is that purely on the financial side or also operationally? Because if you add six models,
you get to 14 and you are going to launch 15 by 2026. So it would imply only one in '26. So a
clarification on that. And linked to that, do you have any concern that maybe you are launching too
many in the sense -- in one year? Because is it not confusing maybe for the customer if we
suddenly get so many new models in terms of positioning? And is it -- is your focus then in 2026
on reaching new customers again or still to focus on existing customers? So that would be the
first question.
And then the second question, how -- can you explain how exactly your mix flows through to your
P&L? And the reason I'm asking is that in 2023, we saw obviously a big jump in your EBITDA
margin, helped by the very strong mix. But arguably, in 2024, your mix was also equally -- almost
equally as good, but the profitability improvement was significantly smaller. So can you give us
some clarity on what are really the key drivers of your margin expansion that we should focus on
going forward? Thanks.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, Susy, thank you. I'll take the first one and then Antonio will go through the mix. So number
one, we are always pushing for new clients, okay? And this is true either for, let's say, thermal
cars, ICE or for hybrid cars. You may notice that in 2024 is the first year, if you want, where we had51% of our cars were hybrid. So we are taking care of the collectors, order bidders, but also the
new clients. The second, the doubt that you had about too many models and confusion. Well, we
are talking about different kinds of cars. There are cars that are special version, that are limited,
that are cars you may remember that we are doing two kind of cars, one more for pilots, okay,
and one for sports car drivers. So they are clearly positioned according to different kind of clients
we have.
Consider that since the beginning, we said we won't -- we are pushing a strategic and horizontal
strategy in terms of, let me say, a model we propose. We don't want to do a few model with a lot
of volumes because we believe this is a little bit against the desirability and could not -- is not
compliant, if you want, with our strategy to become and to be always to become more and more
luxury brand. So we said 15. You did well the math, we will reach 14. There is something else left
for next year. Next year, we'll update what we are planning to do for the end of the decade in
October. So we are talking about new client, existing client. So this is the picture. For the mix I
would like Antonio --
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Hi, Susy. When we speak about the mix, we are referring to product mix, including the special
series and the strictly limited cars in volume, meaning the Daytona for the time being and next
the F80, the supercar. Then the country mix, and finally, the contribution of personalization and
pricing overall. So what we have been going through in the last couple of years has been an
increasing contribution by all of these categories. As far as product mix is concerned, clearly we
reached a new baseline this year with the full deployment of the deliveries of the Daytona
throughout the entire year, which in '25 is not as strong as in 2020 -- sorry, '25 is not as strong as
in 2024 because the Daytona will come to its end by the end of the third quarter. Then the
country mix is also relevant, since we have flagged a number of times now. I don't know if the
countries are adding the same in terms of contribution margin.
And in this respect, the fact that we're moving the majority of our deliveries to North America and
Europe helped compared to the previous situation, where China was more relevant. The third
one is pricing. Pricing has been particularly visible in 2023 and in 2024, to a lesser extent, since it
has been mostly offset by the increasing cost that we have been registering. And in 2025, will be
very, very limited and mostly related to some models in some specific countries or some
components of our revenues related to the cars, but not entirely affecting the model price.
Finally, personalization. Personalization has been the real big new contributor to our P&L. It has
been going through a progressive increase in weight, from 18% before 2022 to 19%, 19.5%, '23,
'24 and now 20%. So that's the real element of news that has been surprising and positively
throughout these years. And we expect this to continue in 2025, as I mentioned before. Does it
help?
Q - `Susy Tibaldi, UBS `
Yes, it does. I guess, yes, a lot of these factors that you mentioned on the positive side of
tailwinds, well, I mean, they were there in 2024, right, as well as 2023. Just the magnitude of the
profitability improvement in '23 versus '24 was very different. But I suppose that you answered
that by mentioning the cost inflation, the underlying inflation, which was not offset by price to a
same extent in 2024.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Correct. Yes, correct.Q - `Susy Tibaldi, UBS `
Understood.
Operator
Thank you. We will now take the next question from the line of `Stephen Reitman, Bernstein Societe Generale from Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Bernstein Societe Generale `
Yes. Good afternoon. Thank you. I have a question on pricing first. I took note of your comment
that pricing would not have a significant impact in 2025, but I want to focus on specific models.
And one model I want to focus on is the Purosangue. I understand that it's actually having some
quite significant price increases from the beginning of 2025. Could you confirm that? And
secondly, could you talk about also about the 12Cilindri in terms of how you're seeing the
customer profile on that vehicle? Is it attracting new customers or is it actually going a lot again to
your collectors and people who have more than one Ferrari already? Thank you very much.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Stephen, for this question. One, the pricing, thanks because you're right, January 1st
this year, there is a price increase on Purosangue. This was already planned. It was already
communicated to you. So there is a -- when we said no pricing increase, we said no new price
increase, but the price increase of Purosangue is planned and is there, okay? So appreciate it.
When it comes to the 12Cilindri, well, we are having good traction on Coupe and Spiders. I would
say today that the order intake, giusto?
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Bernstein Societe Generale `
Yes.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
The order intake is more or less 50-50 on the two models and there is also a strong trend from
new client, prospect and mono buyers. I would say that 40%-45% is, let me say -- sorry, 40, 45
years is the average age of the new client. And how many are the new client percentage-wise,
we are talking around something in the range of 20%.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Bernstein Societe Generale `
All right.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
So that's very interesting. Also I want to share with you the age. That is pretty interesting because
we see and I have in mind several of them, young people as well as new clients that are
particularly interested on the 12Cilindri.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Bernstein Societe Generale `
Thank you. If I could also ask you, have you got any updates on the kind of warranty program
you've been offering on the battery that you told us about last year, particularly in terms ofimproving -- guaranteeing the sort of longevity or the usefulness of the battery in the plug-in
hybrid? And obviously, you'll do something similar on the BEV.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Another interesting question, Stephen. Yes, we launched this warranty in -- basically in September.
So in the last four months, we see around 350 people that are buying our additional insurance for
peace of mind. We have different kind of considers for everyone that this is a warranty that is
touching only the hybrid car. That's what I'm talking about high-voltage battery. So we are talking
about, as I said, 350 contract signed more or less in four months. And the reason why they like it
is because this is providing them a peace of mind because there is no problem, let me say, in the
expiration date of the chemistry of the cell of the battery. So it is having good traction and we will
keep monitoring it.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Bernstein Societe Generale `
Thank you very much.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We will now take the next question from the line of `Michael Binetti, Evercore ISI from Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Evercore ISI `
Hey, guys. Congrats on a great end to the year. My congrats there. Just a quick one. Would you
mind telling us how many Daytonas shipped in fourth quarter? And then I wanted to ask you
about the shape of that a little bit.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Mike, Antonio is going to tell you in detail.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, let me check. Just a second. Well, in the meantime, if you may ask something else, I'm going
to retrieve the information.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Evercore ISI `
Okay. I mean, if we assume the Daytonas were (Multiple Speakers) so --
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Sorry.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
The number of Daytona is 46.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Evercore ISI `46, yes.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
One every two days.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Evercore ISI `
One every two days.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
One every two days for the quarter. Yes, it's easy to remember.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Evercore ISI `
I didn't get mine yet. I didn't get mine yet. So at 46, I think that if we exclude the Daytonas,
probably the rest of the fleet, the ASP or the car revenues per unit, were probably up low
double-digits, maybe 10%. Is that -- I was interested in your comment, Antonio, that the first half
will be stronger than the second half. I think that's a little bit counterintuitive how we were thinking
about it. It seems like the ASPs on the rest of the fleet besides Daytonas were up pretty strongly.
Is that something we should continue -- we should expect to continue in the first half? And that's
what's driving your comment that first half will be higher.
And then I guess, separately, is there any way you could contextualize how many F80s you'll ship
in the fourth quarter year? I know it's the first quarter and it'll be ramping up. But it seems like
when you say the first half is stronger than the second half, it'll be very few F80s in the fourth
quarter. Is that the right way to think about it?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Listen, I would model it this way. You should assume that the Daytonas are slightly lower every
single quarter from Q1 to Q3. They're going to be down to nil in Q4. And then the swap between
the XX -- the SF90 XX Coupe and Spider with the 812 Competizione is going to grow in the
second. It's going to be positive and provide an accretion from Q3 onward, but not offsetting the
negative from losing the Daytona. And the F80 is kicking in, in the last quarter, but just a few units.
That explains widely the strength of the first half compared to the second.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Evercore ISI `
Okay. Okay. And then if I could just follow-up on, Benedetto, as you -- if you see concerns about
residual values of hybrids around the world, across brands dropping a little bit as you guys are on
the eve of launching your first EV, does that change your view of what the Ferrari full electric
customer will value the most? Is you're seeing differences in how consumers more broadly think
about those cars going forward?
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you for the question, Mike. I think that I like to say in this way, there are electric car and
electric cars. I think that we -- since the beginning, let's say, when we announced that our strategy
in June 2022, we had the clear in mind that when you do something -- when you use a new
technology, you have to make a unique way. And that's what we are doing. And we are looking at
all the dimension, as we said at that time. I don't want to comment on the reason why other
electric car may be accepted or not. What I can tell you that our electric car, as we said, will beunique in the sense that we are looking at the different dimensions, the style, the performance
and the driving trails. And we are looking at all the dimension that are below that are sustaining
the driving trails. So you -- if you want to know more detail, you have to come here to eat the
tortellini and to see the electric car in October.
Q - `Michael Binetti, Evercore ISI `
All right. I'll be there. Congrats on a great fourth quarter, guys.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mike.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks.
Operator
Thank you. We will now take the next question from the line of `Monica Bosio, Intesa Sanpaolo from Intesa
Sanpaolo. Please go ahead.
Q - `Monica Bosio, Intesa Sanpaolo `
Hi. Good afternoon, everyone. I hope you can hear me. I have three questions. One is for
Benedetto. It's on the order book in China. I remind that, that in occasion of the third quarter, you
say that the order book in China was at around the five quarters. I'm just wondering, how is the
situation now and if you are willing to change a little bit the strategy also on the back of the tariff
environment? In this context, I'm also wondering if we can expect some acceleration in deliveries
towards Americas in the very first part of the year. Then the second question is on the residual
values. That's something that has that has to do also with the seven years warranty on the
batteries. Can you give us just an update on the residual values trend on the hybrids model? And
the very third question is on the R&D for the current year, if you can share with us some
indication, Antonio? Thank you very much.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Monica. So one, order book in China, you remember well, we said the five quarters
and we stayed today five quarters. And we do not intend to do any acceleration of sales to U.S.
or wherever because of duties or what. So we go ahead with our plan without an acceleration.
Two, residual values. Residual values, there is the trend of residual values is different, different
from the different region and the different models. What we are doing is that where there are
some countries like U.K., for example, where we are limiting the shipment of the cars and where
we see that the warranty that Stephen was asking about is being used. So this is the first two
questions. For R&D?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
On R&D, Monica, it's going to be around 8% of revenues, pretty much in line with 2024. So
another big change there.
Q - `Monica Bosio, Intesa Sanpaolo `Okay. Thank you very much. If I may, just to follow-up, it's just a housekeeping question. The first
half will be stronger than the second half. The price mix will change between the first and the
second part of the year. I can imagine that volumes will keep low-double digit. Can I imagine a
different trend in volumes between the first and the second part of the year or should be more
or less as the previous year?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Pretty much -- thank you, Monica. Pretty much equally distributed in terms of volume and in terms
of the main drivers for H1 being stronger than H2, I just mentioned. So I don't think there is
anything else significant to flag.
Q - `Monica Bosio, Intesa Sanpaolo `
Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We will now take the next question from the line of `Anthony Dick, Oddo Securities ODDO BHF from ODDO BHF.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Anthony Dick, Oddo Securities ODDO BHF `
Yes. Good afternoon. Thanks for taking the question. A couple from my side. The first is on the
D&A. It seems your guidance seems to suggest that D&A will be lower in 2025 versus 2024. So
could you maybe confirm this or not and explain kind of the reasons behind that? I think you
mentioned some model phase-outs having an impact on D&A. So just wondering if that was also
expected this year. And then my second question is on the F80. So you mentioned in a
presentation that it's been fully allocated, but there's also been various reports saying that
there's been some cancellations from clients on the cars. So maybe could you address that
question, confirm whether or not there have been some cancellations and just whether you've
just been able to replace these cancellations or maybe where the order book stands for the
F80? Thank you very much.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Anthony. I think the second one, the D&A, Antonio, will guide you. Thanks also for this
question. Another interesting one because it's also true that on Internet, you may read whatever
you want. We rely on the contract that our clients are signing. And also if you want, allow me to
say that there are more people than the 799 cars that we are aiming to do. So unfortunately, we
cannot show you the contract, but I think you've seen also after the blog was popped up, I think
was, when was it, mid-January? Because I remember I was on the phone with Nicoletta, there has
been a correction and the blog itself has been correcting the news. You know what? What I can
tell you is that to disclose, let's say, something that we cannot. I would like to tell you that the
order intake on the supercars has been faster than the order intake on the two previous
Daytonas. So I would not -- is not relevant, this news, what you read on Internet. The second one,
D&A --
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `With respect to the D&A, I mentioned -- I flagged in 2024, the overall level of the D&A was
substantially flat. We moved quite -- I mean, a few millions. When we look at 2025, this is driven
by the model phase-in, phase-out. We started having D&A from the start of production of the
new models. So what is implicit in our guidance follows the fact that some of the models we
currently have are going to be phased out and new ones will kick in. There is little else to
comment, very honestly, in this. In addition, we have the impact of the new e-building that started
its production at the end of 2024 and this is it.
Q - `Anthony Dick, Oddo Securities ODDO BHF `
Okay. Thank you. So could you maybe just clarify what are your expectations for D&A in 2025?
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
The difference between the EUR650 million.
Q - `Anthony Dick, Oddo Securities ODDO BHF `
Okay. Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. We will now take the next question from the line of `Henning Cosman, Barclays from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Henning Cosman, Barclays `
Hi. Good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for taking the question. The first one is really on pricing
power, ultimately. We have this very stubborn residual value debate. So I was just thinking, could
you maybe reassure us a little bit, you're having these six launches in 2025. Could you just
reassure us a bit about your expected ability to take these mark-ups versus predecessor? The
12Cilindri was obviously quite successful in terms of how you priced it and I suppose how you
anticipated the demand. And I think it would be helpful if you could maybe reassure us a little bit
that you think you'll still be able to execute good pricing power as you're looking at these six
launches in 2025. Just looking for a bit of color there. And the second question would be, again,
in the direction of the hybrids. You've obviously indicated that--
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Sorry, sorry, the second -- Henning, the second is in the direction of hybrids, what you said?
Q - `Henning Cosman, Barclays `
That's right. In the direction of the plug-in hybrids, you've obviously given us in the industrial plan
an indication of the number of models you were going to do in terms of hybrids, right? So I'm just
wondering, if there's anything at all that would make you revisit the plan as to how many of your
models would be plug-in hybrids in the context of perhaps a little bit more muted reception on
part of your customers, more in favor of combustion engines. Thank you very much.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Sorry, the line was a little bit disturbed, but I start from the second one. And we
confirm the plan that we had in mind two years ago. We said, let's say, we were going to -- three
years ago, sorry, in '22. We said that we were having, let's say, the hybrid, the thermal and theelectric. So we are executing our plan, according to our initial product plan, there is no change
over there. Considering the story of pricing power, I would like to say in this way, we have a lot of
launches this year because this is what we were planning to do since time zero because in light of
respecting the client, different clients, there are clients that are aiming to have a pilot cars, there
are client that have sport cars. So we want to offer all of them a new selection of products so that
we stay coherent with our strategy that was different Ferrari for different Ferraristi and different
Ferrari for different moments. So we confirm our product strategy and our marketing strategy as
shared two years and a half ago.
Q - `Henning Cosman, Barclays `
And we can expect the typical pattern of mark-ups versus predecessor, right? We shouldn't think
that there's going to be any deviation from the recent trend where you're able to take good
mark-ups versus predecessor, price increase versus predecessor.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
I don't want to -- I wouldn't like to comment about the features of the new cars, either technical --
from a technical point of view or pricing point of view. Let's make them. You will see, we will start
to roll out. I mean, you can make up your model. We will start pretty soon, I'd say. And then you
will see what we have in the pipe. So you have to be a little bit patient, Henning.
Q - `Henning Cosman, Barclays `
Okay. Sorry, if I can just squeeze a final one on the topic of pricing. So you said you're not
accelerating your plans in forwarding or front-loading deliveries into the U.S. So can I then assume
that you think if there were tariffs that you're quite confident that you'd fully pass them on as you
typically do?
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
What I can tell you in this direction, one, as I said, we don't accelerate. Two, in this game, there
are three players. There is Ferrari, there are the dealers, there is the client. When the detail will
be disclosed in terms of timing, in terms of amount, we'll see how to manage properly.
Q - `Henning Cosman, Barclays `
Thank you very much.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Today, there is a lot of things on Internet, on social app, whatever, but there is not yet any fact. So
we like to do two things. One, we like to do to keep our promise, and two, we like to work on
fact. When the fact will get out, we'll see how to manage.
Q - `Henning Cosman, Barclays `
Thank you, Benedetto.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Henning.
OperatorThank you. We will now take the next question from the line of `Thomas Besson, Kepler Cheuvreux from Kepler
Cheuvreux. Please go ahead.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Thank you very much. I have three questions, please. Firstly, I'd like to come back to the improved
average in prices in Q4 versus Q3. I'd like you to give us a bit more detail beyond the increased
personalization that you said has been a driver. Could you explain why effectively we saw a clear
increase? Is it linked with a higher share of hybrids in Q4? Then I'd like to ask a second question
about what you anticipate for the hybrid share in your volumes in 2025. I know it's probably a bit
difficult to answer because you don't want to tell us too much about your six new rules, but do
you think it will increase further or do you think we're going to see a stabilization of hybrid share?
And then I have a really long --
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Sorry, sorry, sorry, Thomas, Thomas, sorry. The second question, you think it will increase?
Q - `Thomas Besson, Kepler Cheuvreux `
No, no, I'm asking if we're going to see a plateau in hybrid share in 2025 or if it will increase
further. And then I have a last long-term question. You're going to be launching the most
expensive product ever with the F80 full unit at the end of the year. We can assume, therefore,
you're going to have very, very strong '26, '27 average selling prices. Can you tell us just one
word about the post-F80 plan to be able to offset the departure of that car in '28 or '29, please?
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. To see what will happen in '28, '29, you will come here in October. Sorry.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Kepler Cheuvreux `
I will be there. I will be there.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
No, Thomas, you have to come. You will see. We will discuss.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Of course. Of course.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
If we tell you everything now, you don't come anymore here. So --
Q - `Thomas Besson, Kepler Cheuvreux `
I'll be there. Thank you.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
But for sure, I mean, we have a plan that we'll discuss with you and all the colleagues in the call.
And I mean, there is a plan that is supporting our ambition. We will share with you what we weregoing to do in this time, and let's say, we did -- we executed what we committed to execute. In
terms of Q4 --
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
In terms of Q4 --
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Hybrid share, yes.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, sorry. The second was on the hybrid share for 2025. We expect to be slightly lower
compared to 2024. Having (inaudible) 12Cilindri. And in terms of the mix price impact in Q4
compared to Q3, I think it's mostly related to the development of the SF90 XX.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
And also some personalization --
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Because they were using -- there was an increased percentage of carbon finished parts. I mean,
the carbon finished, as we said also in other conference calls, is becoming more and more
appealing. And as a matter of fact, you may remember, Thomas, that we increased also our
capability, I mean, our supply chain capability, to provide this kind of personalization.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
And the last element is probably a bit of a country mix, which is also positive in Q4 more than Q3.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Understood. Thank you very much.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Thomas.
Operator
Thank you. We will now take the next question from the last -- line of `George Galliers, Goldman Sachs from
Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.
Q - `George Galliers, Goldman Sachs `
Yes. Good afternoon and thank you for taking my questions. The first question I had was just a bit
of a housekeeping question with respect to the number of specials shipped in the fourth quarter.
I think if we just do the basic math based off what you showed for Q1, Q2 and Q3 and then what
you showed for the full year, it would imply that the specials were somewhere in the region of 7%
to 8% of deliveries in Q4. I was wondering, if you might be able to confirm that. The secondquestion I had was just on the depreciation and amortization. Obviously, at around EUR650 million
for this year, there is quite a large delta to where the CapEx has been in recent years. Over time,
is it fair and logical to expect the D&A to get close to the EUR900 plus million level of CapEx that
we have been seeing?
Or does the lifetime assumptions for the D&A mean that, that annual D&A number will always be
materially lower than the CapEx has been at these elevated levels? And then just finally, with
respect to the order book, obviously sold out for the next two years, which is phenomenally
strong and that would equate to something in the region of around 28,000 cars. As we think
about those orders, what is the average number of orders per customer? Can you give any
insights into that? Thank you.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
So the first one I will reply is 6%. You said the number of special in Q4, 6%. The last one, yes, we
are covered until 2026. And you said orders? Orders per client --
Q - `George Galliers, Goldman Sachs `
Per client, exactly.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
We don't have this match. I think, let me put it this way, the distribution of order, for sure, is not
Gaussian. It's pretty scattered, as I can tell you. There are -- I can tell you there are client --- what I
can tell you is that there are client that want only one kind of cars, the pilot, some client that want
only the one for sport -- as a sport car drivers and other people that are taking both, depends a
little bit. It is -- this kind of average is a little bit meaningless because it depends on the country
and also consider that there are also the top VIP client that are taking our car also in different
places. So we don't see this parameter because it's not representative.
The second one, the D&A --
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, the D&A. It's CapEx to D&A, I think we discussed it already when we had the Capital Markets
Day in 2022. And I think we said by the end of 2026, we would have expected it to be around 1.2.
So it's not 1 to 1. For the next five years, please wait until the next Capital Markets Day and we'll
be more specific. Clearly, what we are witnessing within this year is a wave of investment, which is
made of significant addition, the electric car that we were talking before and the infrastructural
investment that are also reshaping our Maranello plant. Going forward, subject to the
development, the definition of the new product plan, there are chances for a reduction, and
therefore, an equalization -- a trend towards the equalization.
Q - `George Galliers, Goldman Sachs `
Understood. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We will now take the next question from the line of `Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley `Hi. Thanks, everybody. I'm looking forward to the tortellini as well as it's divine. Benedetto, you
mentioned 81% of last year's sales were to existing customers. It was 74% the prior year. That's a
big jump. I'm curious what drove that? What your long-term natural level is? And just to clarify
within that question, I think you said that sales -- did you say 40%, four zero percent of sales were
to customers that owned one Ferrari already in the garage or was it 14%? I couldn't tell if it was
40% or 14% and then I have a follow-up.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
40%. Sorry for my English.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley `
Thank you. That makes more sense. No, it's me. It's my American ears.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
No, no. It's okay. It's always good to learn. No problem. I don't --
Q - `Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley `
Yes.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley `
Sorry. And the -- yes, on the 81%, just curious, a little color around that. It's a big jump and I don't
know if that was -- if that could go higher. Like to your order book, based on what you see, would
that remain around 81% or rise or is that a high watermark?
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
I think, Adam, there are -- just consider the case of 12Cilindri. The 12Cilindri is a car that is ICE,
12Cilindri and we have 40% -- sorry, we have 20% of the clients that are new.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley `
Yes. Okay.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
So -- and also consider the average age is also around 45 years. The graph, if you take the
12Cilindri, Coupe and Spiders, yes, the Coupe, to be precise, average age is 45.2 years and the
Spider is 44.4 years. So it's easy to remember, 3-4. So allow me to say, if I go to compare this
also with the average age of the hybrid cars, more or less is the same for the new client, for the
new client. And in terms of another data point that can be interesting, if I go to see the new client
percentage-wise, the order from new client is in the same ballpark.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley `
Okay. All right. That would suggest stability there. Thanks, Benedetto. Just my follow-up on the
personalization, just another angle. You had acknowledged, again, some of the residualweakness in recent periods was maybe a little bit of over-personalization or different
combinations that may not have achieved the same residual value retention in the second-hand
market. And I'm wondering, even though you've guided clearly on personalization level remaining
around 20% or more flat year-on-year, has your team made any changes to the character or the
type of personalization?
You mentioned carbon fiber, but in addition to that, that you would make available to your clients
or somehow disincentivize, so that you don't have the rainbow-colored paint with the brown
interior and control -- making sure that it's more in a Ferrari clientele pedigree. Does that make
sense? I don't know if there were things you could do to encourage or discourage the type.
Thanks.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I think I understand what you mean. First of all, a few data points to give you more color
because I think this is the last question, so I would like to share a little bit more color with all of
you. So which are the personalization that are most common in our car? For sure, we have the
carbon finish, okay, different kinds of, let's say, accessories or things. Then there are -- there is
also the painting and then there is -- when it comes to painting, there are different levers. Now,
the question is, you have a client and I have several in mind that they come here with their idea of
personalization and they let them guide by our them guide by.
So for example, some people are telling, Benedetto, I came to Maranello, I went to New York
with an idea and then your colleague suggested to me not to go so extreme or to do something
so strange. So they follow. Some other client instead, they come here and they take what they
want. We can advise, but at the end of the story, we cannot force them. So clearly, if there is --
allow me to say, if there are some combinations, they may not be pleased or liked or loved by
the second potential buyer. We have been thinking internally about -- just to tell you, we have
been thinking internally maybe to make some predefined combinations and just fresh. Last week
-- in the last two weeks, there are some places in the world, okay, where they like to have, "a set
menu." There are other places where they want a la carte because they don't like a set menu and
they want to be free to select what they want. Some people are saying, look, I understand, I may
lose on the residual value, but when I drive it, I want to enjoy the way I want, okay? So it's a
choice. You have maybe on your shirt AJ. I would not take yours.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley `
Yes.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
I would not appreciate it without the BV. So -- but so we'll -- I mean, we have to pay attention
because we cannot limit. We have to defend the values of the brand, the identity of the brand.
No doubt, we will not make a strange car for sure. But if the people like a combination and we
cannot say no because we can advise.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley `
I understand.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
So (Multiple Speakers)Q - `Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley `
And Benedetto, if I can --
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Adam, the best way, you become our client and you can live this experience in first person.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley `
Well, look, if I can get seconds on the tortellini because it's so billowy, it's billowy. It's so delicious.
I'll get you an AJ shirt. Thanks very much.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Probably.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley `
Yes.
Operator
Thank you. We will now take the last question from the line of `Tom Narayan, RBC Capital Markets from RBC. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Tom Narayan, RBC Capital Markets `
Hi, thanks for taking the question. Looking forward to October, praying for good weather. So my
questions are, first is on this whole residual value thing with that blog, which is, I guess, fake news.
One thing that I think can help people understand this better is I don't know if you track this, but
what is the percentage of your owners that might be looking at their Ferrari as -- potentially as an
asset, maybe as an investor, just asking because the demand of these customers theoretically
would be at most risk if residual values come down. That's the first one.
Then I noticed on the slides on the 2025 guidance, you mentioned supply chain issues and
challenges. Just curious if there's any details there, if that's anything for us to really be worried
about or anything. And then lastly, on the e-building, since we were there last year, it was a big
empty room. Just curious if we looked at it today, what would we see that's different? What
specific things are you utilizing it for now? Maybe it's different than what we saw before. Thank
you.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. I start from the last one. If you come here, you will see that out of this building, there are
Purosangue, and yes, hybrid car getting out, okay? There are cars that are done and getting out
of the doors of that building. If you come here and you go to the, we say in Italy, first floor, in the
U.S. you say second floor, you have equipment that are managing, let's say, batteries, engine,
inverter, axles. So this is about e-building. Second, congratulations for having spotting out this
point that Antonio was clear. What does it mean, supply chain challenge? It's very simple. There
are some suppliers in the automotive industry that because of the lower demand of the big OEM
are having some troubles. That's the meaning. So how do we cope with that? Number one, we
are dispatching our people there to make sure that we do not stop our production.Number two, we are leveraging the second sourcing option that we have in place. So that's the
meaning. It is funny because in the past, we thought that the supplier, depending less on us, if
you want, had a more differentiated business, they could be more stronger. As a matter of fact,
today, you have several suppliers in the Western world that are suffering because of lower
demand of Western world OEM. Then you said the first one, F80, how many clients? Maybe you
can comment through the first one.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I would make a reference to what you already mentioned a couple of times, Benedetto.
We've been going through a statistical analysis of the receivers of the range cars. And the fact
that the range cars, in one year, looses around 20% is pretty much a fact, I mean, it happens in
our history and it is the standard evaluation. So I think that it should be rationally well
encompassed in the decision of buying a Ferrari. What is different from other models is that
usually then the values hold up and maybe start growing over time after those initial depreciation.
Different is for special series and strictly limited, the Daytona and the supercars. Those are usually
appreciating over time, very similar.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
(inaudible)
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
Having said that, it's very difficult -- sorry, just to finish. Having said that, it's very difficult to tell you
what is the number of people who look at the car as an asset. I would be tempted to consider
that collectors also have an investor's view, but not necessarily all. Most of them are simply
passionate about that. And certainly, clients who decide to buy one car only, range car, should
consider that it happens simply normally that there is a reduction in value for the car. So that's
part of the equation.
Q - `Tom Narayan, RBC Capital Markets `
Got it. Understood. Thank you so much.
A - `Antonio Picca Piccon, Chief Financial Officer `
You're welcome.
A - `Benedetto Vigna, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Tom. Well, I would like -- before the conclusion of this call, I would like really to thank all
of you for the time today, but also for the attention you dedicate to us. Thanks for your questions.
They helped us, me and Antonio, to clarify better. Thanks a lot. I would like also to thank all the
stakeholders because what we said -- what we did the last years and what we are going to do
next year -- this year, sorry, it's only because we have a lot of people with great determination
and passion. So the 2024 result -- the strong 2024 result and the continuing desirability of our
brand is that, that is fueling our confidence for the year ahead and also for the future.
So having said that, thanks again. And I wish all of you a good morning, good afternoon, good
evening, wherever you are on the globe. And meet you in-person, 9 October, yes and we'll take
care also of the weather. It should be better. Worse cannot be in June. Thank you.
OperatorThis concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.