Q4 2014 Earnings Call

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Corning, Incorporated Fourth
Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only
mode. Later we will conduct a question and answer session. Instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Division Vice President of Investor
Relations Ms. Ann Nicholson. Please go ahead.
Ann H. S. Nicholson `
Thank you, Greg. Good morning everyone. Welcome to Corning's fourth quarter conference call.
With me today is Jim Flaws, Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin our formal comments, I'd like to remind you that today's remarks contain
forward-looking statements that fall within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995. These remarks involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could
cause actual results to differ materially. These factors are detailed in the company's financial
reports. You should also note that this presentation contains a number of non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliations can be found on our website.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jim.
James B. Flaws
Thanks, Ann. Good morning, everyone. I'm delighted to share our fourth quarter and full year
results with you this morning. Corning had an outstanding quarter that wrapped up two
consecutive calendar years of quarterly earnings growth.We entered 2014 with a goal to grow sales and earnings significantly. We delivered on this goal
with year-over-year earnings growth in every quarter. For the full year, sales grew 29% and
earnings per share grew 24%. The integration of CMP in Korea was a significant driver of the
earnings increase. And additionally, in our four other non-display segments, we achieved
excellent growth which, of course, has been a long-standing goal. In aggregate, they grew sales
and net income of approximately 10%.
We also delivered on our commitment to return cash to shareholders with our recent December
announcement of a 20% increase in the dividend and a new share repurchase program of $1.5
billion. We feel great about our momentum entering 2015 and expect to deliver continued sales
and earnings growth in the new year.
So now I'd like to turn to our quarter four results beginning with some highlights. We had a
fantastic quarter that was better than we originally expected. Earnings per share were up 55%
versus last year led by the consolidation of CPM. Optical Communications, Environmental, Dow
Corning's equity earnings and a slightly lower tax rate also contributing to growth.
LCD glass volume was better than expected, driven by strong demand for larger LCD televisions.
With volume up in the mid-teens year-over-year and mid-single digits sequentially, Display set a
quarterly record for sales volume.
LCD glass price declines were moderate again, as expected, and declined less than Q3. LCD
glass demand continues to be good entering Q1, and we believe this is due to strong retail
demand in Q4 for larger televisions, replenishing supply for Q1 which is also a typically good
quarter for retail television sales. We launched our next generation of Gorilla Glass during the
quarter and is receiving very favorable reviews by customers and at the recent Consumer
Electronics Show.
Specialty Materials sales in the quarter exceeded our expectations, driven by demand for Gorilla
Glass for new product launches. CPM integration activities have gone very well and we have
exceeded our synergy goal for the year. And equity earnings from Dow Corning were also ahead
of expectations in Q4, driven mainly by higher sales of polysilicon.
So now let's delve into the fourth quarter details. Fourth quarter sales were $2.6 billion, up 30%
versus last year. Gross margin was 45%. We improved year-over-year gross margin every quarter
this year. Gross equity earnings of $116 million were more than expected by Dow Corning and I'll
cover that in more detail in a few moments.
Other income includes a payment for the settlement of dispute over the use of fusion
technology in China. This was the final payment to Corning. Please recall we had a similar
payment in 2013 in the same quarter, so it had no impact on our year-over-year gains in the
quarter.
EPS was $0.45, up $0.16 versus a year ago and completes two calendar years of quarterly year-
over-year earnings growth. During the quarter we spent approximately $183 million to repurchase
shares. We completed the October 2013 repurchase program in quarter four and have now
begun repurchasing shares under our new program in January.
For the year, sales were $10.2 billion, up 29% over 2013. Corporate gross margin was up 2.4
points. The integration of CPM and Display cost reduction drove a large portion of the year-over-
year improvement. Optical Communications, Environmental also improved their profitability thisyear. S&A and R&D were up year-over-year in dollars due to the consolidation of CPM. As a
percentage of sales, we lowered S&A and RD&E. The year-over-year decline in gross equity
earnings reflects the elimination of SCP equity earnings following the acquisition and its
consolidation.
Our effective tax rate for the year was 16.8%, slightly lower than original expectations, was helped
by regional mix and the Extenders bill which passed in December.
Earnings per share for the year were $1.53, up 24%. This year-over-year improvement is the result
of additional earnings from Corning Precision Materials, earning growth in Environmental and
Optical Communications, earnings growth in Dow Corning, as well as the impact of share
repurchases.
So now I'll turn to our detailed segments, and I'd like to start with Display. Display sales were $1.1
billion in Q4, 69% increase versus last year. Overall, our market share remained stable and LCD
glass price declines were again moderate. Sequentially, our LCD glass volume was up in the mid-
single digits.
Let me provide you more detail about LCD glass demand in retail. In Q4, we believe television
retail sell-through units were up high-single digits year-to-date. TV area growth measured in
square feet of glass sold was up approximately mid-teens, representing a strong holiday season
at retail. Panel makers ran at high utilizations to meet strong demand for large televisions over
the holiday and to restock supply chain for Q1.
Supply chain inventory remained healthy exiting the quarter with forward-looking weeks of
inventory at approximately 17.5 weeks. Gross equity earnings from our equity venture in Korea,
SEG, were immaterial.
Net income was up 26% over the year, reflecting the impact of additional sales, earnings and
synergies from CPM. I can't emphasize enough the outstanding job the Display organization has
done with cost reduction and successfully integrating CPM.
Now, for the full year, Display segment sales were $4.4 billion, up 63%, driven by the addition of
CPM sales. Full year net income was up 11%. Looking at sales and net income growth rates,
remember, we consolidated 100% of CPM sales in our reporting for 2014, but only the other half
of the net income.
Our full year volume was up slightly more than 10%, in line with the glass industry. Our volume
growth was offset by price declines which were larger in the first half of the year. We did achieve
more moderate price declines in the second half, and this is continuing into Q1.
As we track the heart beat of pricing without the impact of thick to thin customer mix, we feel
very good about the level of declines we've experienced for the last three quarters.
Volume and synergies and cost reductions helped the business improve gross margin percent for
the full year. Actual synergies for the year were greater than our expectation of $100 million.
Now, we estimate the glass market at retail for 2014 was approximately 4.4 billion square feet, up
approximately 10%. Our preliminary estimates of TV unit sell-through indicate year-over-year unit
sales were up in the mid-single digits. All regions except Japan grew unit sales year-over-year.
Average television size increased again in 2014 and drove glass market growth. Weestimate TV area growth was up in the mid teens. 50-inch plus televisions grew greater than 50%
in 2014 and the average screen size increased more than an inch.
Now in Optical Communications, Q4 sales were $676 million, up 12% versus last year and better
than expected. Carrier sales in North America drove most of the increase versus expectations,
but enterprise exceeded as well. Net income was up 64% over last year's fourth quarter. The
higher volume and improved cost structure led to another strong quarter for Optical
Communications.
And for the full year, sales were nearly $2.7 billion, up 14%. Sales in all businesses were up year-
over-year and all regions except China contributed to growth. Optical Communications annual net
income of 2014 was up 18%. We are very pleased with the results, we have great momentum in
Optical entering 2015.
Now in Environmental sales grew 5% year-over-year driven by heavy-duty diesel sales in the
United States. So slightly less than forecast due to some changes in customer end of year
inventory management plans. Environmental's net income in quarter four was $40 million, also up
5% year-over-year.
For the year, Environmental's sales were up 19%, driven primarily by a healthier U.S. Class A truck
market and higher sales of heavy-duty diesel products for new regulations in Europe and in China.
Environmental expanded gross margins and grew net income 44% for the year due to additional
volume, significant manufacturing efficiency improvements. We were also delighted by the
performance of Environmental Technologies in 2014.
Specialty Materials sales in the fourth quarter were up 12% versus Q4 2013 and better than
expected due to strong Gorilla Glass volume from device manufacturer and new product
launches.
Now net income in quarter four was down year-over-year by 13%, however , these results
included an accounts receivable write-off. Without that write-off, net income would have been up
8%. For the full year, Specialty sales were up 3% and net income was down 17%. Without the Q4
accounts
receivable write-off, net income for the year would have been down 13%.
Our Advanced Optics sales and earnings which is embedded in Specialty grew, while the 20%
growth of Gorilla Glass volume was largely offset by the price declines that occurred mostly in Q1.
The cover glass market did not grow as much as we originally expected in 2014. The most
significant disappointment to us was branded tablets not growing at all versus 2013.
However, we did have some accomplishments that are setting us up for a more successful 2015
in Specialty. First, we maintained our share against aluminum silicate glass competitors on
devices. Second, this year we made progress on increasing our share of smartphones in China
and, of course, we launched Gorilla Glass 4. Drop performance of Gorilla Glass 4 is beneficial to
device manufacturers, and we expect to be able to price for that added value.
In Life Sciences, Q4 sales were up 2% year-over-year. Net income was consistent with last year.
And for the year, Life Sciences sales were $862 million, up slightly. And as I've mentioned
throughout 2014, the market did not grow as much with one reason being the low level of NIH
spending. Net income for the year was down 5%.Now, moving to Dow Corning, gross equity earnings from both silicones and polysilicon segments
were up versus Q4 2013. Volume for polysilicon was up (13:25) polysilicon as solar customers
bought to fulfill their annual contract commitments. Additionally, manufacturing efficiency
improved over last year. The silicones business sales were consistent with Q4 last year, but a
lower tax rate and lower operating expense helped profitability.
Dow Corning exceeded our expectations for the quarter by $30 million with higher sales of
polysilicon, improved operational expenses.
Now for the year, Dow Corning's equity earnings were up $142 million. Both silicone and
polysilicon sales were up. Silicone sales were up in the low-single digits as expected. Raw material
pricing negatively impacted profitability slightly, but this was offset by a lower tax rate.
Hemlock sales were up 32%, driven by higher polysilicon sales to solar customers, and cost
controls helped Hemlock improve profitability over 2013. Hemlock sales and profitability overall
were more stable in 2014.
Now I'd like to take a minute to discuss Hemlock's impact on our results. Investors will recall we
had excluded Hemlock in our 2013 from our core operating results as we had expected extreme
volatility due to the trade issues. That volatility did not occur. So in 2014 we included Hemlock in
core. In retrospect, my decision to exclude core in 2013 was one of my less brilliant ideas as CFO,
so wanted to make sure you understood how much Hemlock contributed to our core earnings if
we have been reporting it consistently. As you can see, even if we had included Hemlock in 2013,
our 2014 results for Dow Corning would have shown significant improvement.
Now moving on to the balance sheet, we ended the fourth quarter with $6.1 billion in cash and
short-term investments, strong free cash flow for the year of nearly $4 billion including the
dividends from CPM as we did that transaction. As a reminder, free cash flow is a non-GAAP
measure. Reconciliation to GAAP can be found on our website. Capital spending for the year was
$1.1 billion.
Now before I move on to our outlook, I'd like to update you on our core performance reporting.
I'll begin with a brief retrospective on core performance measures as we may have some new
investors on the call. As a reminder, our Display sales are priced in yen. We report in U.S. dollars,
so the earnings from Display sales translate into our GAAP income statement in dollars at the
actual exchange rate during the quarter.
Now following the election of the new Japanese Prime Minister in December of 2012, the yen
began to weaken against the U.S. dollar. We saw the yen weaken from ¥82 to the dollar in
November of 2012 to the low ¥90 level in early 2013. You may recall we took immediate action in
early 2013 to limit the adverse economic impact on Corning by entering into hedges. Our
hedging contracts for 2013 and 2014 had an average exchange rate of ¥93 to the dollar.
We also gave some thought as to how the potential reporting of those hedges would inform our
investors. GAAP is our official reporting for the company. In GAAP reporting we record the
quarterly settlement of our yen contracts in other income, other expense on our GAAP
statements. So you would see the weakening of the yen in sales and gross margin, but the gain
on their hedges in other income, other expense. However, GAAP also requires us to record the
fair value of all of our contracts, including those outstanding beyond the current quarter in our
results. This mark-to-market of our entire hedged portfolio would also show up in other income,
other expense. Result is investors would be unable to discern how much that line item was
attributable to hedges for the current period versus hedges for the future periods.With the recent volatility of the yen, our GAAP results might be confusing to investors. So we felt
this accounting, while definitely appropriate, would not help investors see the operational impact
of volume and prices easily. Our recent quarterly results show how confusing this has become.
Our quarter four GAAP results include marking to market our cumulative hedges for 2015 to 2017.
When the rate moved from ¥110 at the end of quarter three to ¥120 at the end of Q4, we had a
mark-to-market gain of $398 million. We also had a realized gain of $112 million for the hedge
contracts settled in Q4. It is this latter gain that is important and is the one that makes us feel
comfortable using constant yen reporting at ¥93.
Now I know this example is long, but I hope it helps you how see our hedges are protecting the
economics for the company. They're complicated as you look at the operational performance in
the quarter.
So in February of 2013 we announced that in addition to our GAAP results, we would also provide
our results using core performance measures, allowing investors a more clear view of the
company's core operating results. Our core performance results are stated at constant yen to
U.S. dollar exchange rate of ¥93. Primary purpose of the core performance measures are to allow
investors to see operating results without the volatility of the yen and hedges masking
operational performance.
So to summarize, beginning in 2013 we became economically protected with yen weaker than
¥93 with hedges, and we moved to core reporting to provide investors additional transparency
on our operating results at a constant exchange rates of ¥93.
So now let me fast forward to January, 2015. As you know, the yen has continued to weaken from
its early 2013 level of the low ¥90s to the upper ¥90s at the beginning of 2014. We made the
decision to extend our economic hedge protection beyond 2014. We entered into hedges for
2015 to 2017 at an average rate of ¥99 to $1. Our earnings are now economically 100% hedged
against the yen in 2015, approximately 80% hedged in 2016 and 70% hedged in 2017. These new
hedges show up in GAAP with the impact of mark-to-market each quarter.
So now what about our core reporting? With our existing hedges for 2015 to 2017 now at ¥99, we
will move to a new constant yen rate of ¥99 yen rate to the dollar. This adjustment to core
maintains the alignment with the intent of the hedges that limit the economic impact of the yen
weakening. We expect to keep this core yen rate over the next three years. About 75% of the
analysts covering us have already modeled 2015 at this yen exchange rate of ¥99. Going forward,
we'll talk about our core results at the new constant yen rate of ¥99.
Now comparisons to 2014 will also be done at ¥99 and we will be providing you our 2014 results
recast with the exchange rate so you can update your models and compare apples-to-apples.
We'll be releasing this recast 2014 and also 2013 numbers later this morning in an 8-K filing.
Now, I'll be repeating some of this in our outlook section, but I wanted to remind investors that
we've been giving guidance on the value of ¥1 move in our NPAT for several years. Our most
recent guidance has been that a ¥1 move impacts NPAT by $25 million for the year. This simple
example is accurate and easy to use, however, when we recast every line in our P&L, the
calculations impact certain line items differently. Clearly, our sales are affected by the yen change,
however, not all our cost moves with yen exchange rates. We have some yen-based costs, but
also have manufacturing costs in other currencies that do not move. As a result in our recast, our
gross margin percent is affected. The impact on Display gross margin is two percent points; the
impact on the total company gross margin is 1%.I want to be clear, we have always had the impact of this change on gross margin embedded in
our simple metric of ¥1 move equals $25 million; however, it's important that you make your
models reflect the line item changes accurately. Our investor relations group will be ready to
explain the recasting from ¥93 to ¥99. There are nuances that are important to understand.
With that, I'd like to turn to Display's outlook. We feel very good about the glass market as we
enter 2015. Supply chain inventory levels remain healthy. Glass supply is tight relative to demand,
and we expect another year of glass volume growth at retail.
We finalized contracts with our customers for substantially all our volume in 2015, which we
believe is a reflection of our customers' desire to lock in glass supply due to the strong market
and relatively tight supply/demand situation. We expect our share to be stable in quarter one and
throughout the year.
Now for the yen market in 2015, we believe TV retail demand is strong. Our preliminary forecast
for 2015 is for good growth of LCD glass at retail and our glass demand, driven primarily by TV
unit and average screen size growth. We believe the glass market at retail could be up in the high
single digits in 2015. We expect ultra-high definition sales to at least double to approximately 25
million units in 2015.
Now of course we're going to be saying a lot more about our outlook on February 6 at our
investor relations event in New York City.
As we near the end of January, we expect our glass volume outlook in quarter one to be flat to
down slightly sequentially. You'll see quarter one LCD glass market declining sequentially
reflecting normal seasonality and of course fewer shipping days in February. Now, recall Q2 is the
slowest retail season, so the supply chain should do some moderation in late Q1 to manage
inventory. You should note the LCD glass market and our volumes in Q1 are up year-over-year,
reflecting a larger market.
Now, we expect price declines in Q1 to again be moderate and similar to Q4. We are especially
delighted to not have a repeat of last year's Q1 pricing event. We remain optimistic glass industry
can continue to moderate quarterly price declines for the full year for several reasons. First, retail
demand is expected to grow, helping to maintain a healthy supply chain inventory. Second, panel
makers are profitable and they are getting the benefit of the weaker yen. Third, glass supply is
tight to (24:54) demand. And fourth, the operating margins of our competitors are such they
can't afford large price declines if they hope to remain profitable.
As for our glass capacity, I want to reiterate that we intend to diligently manage our capacity to
supply. Customer agreements stabilize our share of help (25:15) manufacturing organization
manage capacity and demand. And we look forward to renewed agreements maintaining that
stability in 2015.
Now, turning to the Optical Communications segment. We expect Q1 sales to be up more than
10% versus Q1 of last year. Enterprise and fiber-to-home sales are up in North America and of
course, adding to Optical Communications organic growth will be sales from the recent
acquisition of TR Manufacturing.
In Environmental, we expect Q1 sales to be consistent year-over-year. Volume is up versus last
year on most products, but is offset by now the much weaker euro versus last year. Without this
FX impact, Environmental sales would have been up approximately 5%.We expect Specialty Materials sales to be up approximately 10% year-over-year in Q1. The retail
market for touch devices is strong in Q4, and our Gorilla Glass shipments in quarter four and
quarter one are up driven by this retail demand.
Specialty sales are down sequentially due to normal seasonality of Gorilla Glass. For the full year,
we expect our volume growth of Gorilla Glass to be in line with the IT handheld market and price
declines to be more moderate than in 2014 due to Gorilla Glass 4.
In Life Sciences, we expect sales to be consistent with last year's first quarter. Our Life Science
business is now also being impacted by the weaker euro. We expect sales would have been up
low single-digits without the FX impact. Equity earnings from Dow Corning are expected to be
approximately $69 million, up 10% year-over-year, driven by polysilicon sales.
Now, continuing on with the rest of our quarter one forecast, we expect gross margin to be
approximately 43% which compares to 43% in Q1 last year, with a yen/U.S. dollar exchange rate at
¥99. The move to constant yen rate of ¥99 does affect our LCD glass reporting, as I outlined
earlier. As a reminder, we've given the guidance of ¥1 move change to NPAT for a long time.
Embedded with that metric is this nuance on gross margin.
SG&A and R&D spending will be 13% and 8% of sales respectively and consistent with 2014.
Other income and other expense is expected to be a net expense of $40 million in Q1. Our
effective tax rate for 2015 should be around 18%. The projected rate is higher than 2014, driven
by the regional mix of sales and assumes that no renewal of the Tax Extenders bill. We expect full
year capital spending to be $1.3 billion to maybe $1.4 billion.
When we sum up our outlook for Q1, you see we expect another quarter of year-over-year
earnings growth. We will be providing the recast of Q1 2014 in a few minutes for you to do your
year-over-year calculation.
Now, for those investors who also like to do sequential comparisons, please remember to use
the quarter four ¥99 recast. If you're concentrating on sequential comparisons other than the
recasting of the yen, please remember that in Q4 we received the final payment related to the
settlement of technology dispute, it doesn't show up again in Q1. Q4 equity earnings from Dow
Corning were very large driven by the strong end of year contract fulfillment orders for
polysilicon. We expect polysilicon sales to be down seasonally in Q1.
And Dow Corning's tax rate will rebound to be higher in 2015. Corning's effective tax rate in 2015
will be one to two points higher than 2014. Now please remember the low rate in quarter four is
not indicative of the full year tax rate. Ann and Steven (29:20) are available to help you as you
update your models.
So in summary, we're coming off a great quarter and a great year, and we expect that
momentum to deliver growth again this quarter.
That concludes my opening remarks. Ann?
Ann H. S. Nicholson `
Thank you, Jim. Greg, we'll now open the lines for questions.
Q&A
OperatorThank you. Your first question comes from the line of `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group from SIG. Please go ahead.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group `
Good morning. Thanks for taking my question. Jim, you were talking about in the Display segment
volumes, glass volumes are beginning to firm up. Can you just elaborate more? And how should
we think about the ASP component as volumes are getting firm, especially as your customers are
beginning to kind of worry about supply, and that's what I heard from you?
A - James B. Flaws
So we believe our price declines will be moderate again in Q1. We have most of that done now
and we're delighted by that. And we think all the trends in the industry are positive for ASP and
we expect moderate price declines every quarter this year.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group `
On your comment that the volumes are beginning to firm up, is that more of a quarterly firming
up, is that for the whole year? How should we think about the timing part of it?
A - James B. Flaws
Well, I don't think I used word firm up. I believe volumes were very strong actually all of last year.
They were stronger than we expected in quarter four. And we think they'll be good in quarter
one. And if you come to our IR event, we'll be giving you a lot more detail on full year guidance
for the Display market.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group `
Okay. Got it. And then one follow-up on the Specialty Material. If I were to exclude the receivable
write-off, how did the margins trend and how should we think about the margin trend into 2015?
A - James B. Flaws
Well, earnings would have been up in quarter four without the receivable write-off. I think the
number was 8%. And in terms of gross margins in Specialty and Gorilla, we expect them to
improve this year.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Ehud Gelblum from Citi. Please go ahead.
Q - `Ehud A. Gelblum, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker) `
Hey, guys. Good morning. Thank you. A couple questions, just a quick clarification. The gross
margin this quarter was below guidance. Was that due to the write-off?
A - James B. Flaws
No. In the gross margin there were three minor items that made it be, I think it rounded about 1%
lower. There's nothing significant there.Q - `Ehud A. Gelblum, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker) `
Okay. And you expect it to stay at the 44% level instead of going back up next quarter so those
issues continue? How should we read into that?
A - James B. Flaws
No. Well, as you know, our gross margin's always a mix of various business, but I would expect our
gross margin to be 43% with the yen at ¥99.
Q - `Ehud A. Gelblum, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker) `
I'll do some more math to get into that. On Gorilla, can you give us an update as to what is
happening with notebooks and laptops? Are you seeing any more penetration there or is it still
primarily the tablet and smartphone market? And on Gorilla Glass 4, sounds like you're getting a
premium on it versus Gorilla Glass 3; where does that premium, the price point, sit versus where
Gorilla Glass was prior to the large cut at the beginning of 2014? Is it around the same level or is it
still below?
A - James B. Flaws
I don't actually have that comparison in my head of what it was before the cut, so I'll think about
how much we're going to disclose on that. In terms of the touch on notebook market, actually
there was some progress this past year versus 2013 and we expect some continued progress as
the share of it grows as part of the notebook market, and we actually have improved our own
share of that in 2014, and we expect to improve it again in 2015. It's just not a fast-growing
change.
Q - `Ehud A. Gelblum, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker) `
Okay. On the hedges, in a prior conference call, I believe you may have said that you did have
some hedges at ¥93 that extended into 2015. A) is that correct? And B) if that's the case, I think
you said at one point that around two-thirds of your 2015 may have been hedged at ¥93. How do
you handle the ¥93 hedges when you're showing core earnings at ¥99? Do you show as part of
the gain reflected into core revenue and the rest still sits in other income?
A - James B. Flaws
Let me correct. We never said we had two-thirds 2015 at ¥93. We had a small proportion of 2015
at ¥93. And what we've done is chosen, from an accounting point of view, to select a blended
rate of ¥99 that carries over the three years. In any given quarter the rate may be slightly
different, but we are allowed to choose a blended rate and we've done that for the three years.
But we never had that higher proportion of 2015 hedged at ¥93.
Q - `Ehud A. Gelblum, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker) `
Okay. I'll have to find that reference again. So again, in any given quarter, you'll take the ¥99 up to
the current spot, you'll reflect that in revenue. But any gains that would have come from a
different actual number -- let's say you're hedged at ¥97 for a given quarter -- the difference
between ¥97 and ¥99 still shows up in other income? Is that the way we were to look at it?
A - James B. FlawsWe don't – I mean, the movement in our hedge rate around this blended rate is very, very tiny. So
in our core reporting numbers, you'd see it's all done at the constant ¥99. In our GAAP, you will
see the settlement of hedges in the current quarter and then the mark-to-market for the entire
portfolio of hedges.
Q - `Ehud A. Gelblum, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker) `
Helpful. And finally, can you give an update on what DAS is doing in the Optical department? I
didn't see any Optical segment, I didn't hear that that was necessarily a driver, but it had been in
the past. Is it still as strong as it had been?
A - James B. Flaws
It's never been a big driver. It's a kind of a growing business, and you're going to hear more
about it at our IR Day in a week.
Q - `Ehud A. Gelblum, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker) `
Okay. Thanks, Jim.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Wamsi Mohan, Bank of America Merrill Lynch from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Wamsi Mohan, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Yes. Thank you. Good morning, Jim. We've not seen your 8-K yet, but directionally, can you help
us think about where the 2014 Q1 gross margin was on a ¥99 basis, so we know operationally if
the gross margin is flat, up or down year-over-year? And I have a follow-up.
A - James B. Flaws
Directionally, it's 43%.
Q - `Wamsi Mohan, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
So it's flat year-on-year? Okay. Thanks. And then in equity earnings, were there any take-or-pay
enforcement that helped in the quarter, and how should we think about equity earnings in 2015,
again, if you think it should be flat, up or down in 2015? Thanks.
A - James B. Flaws
So the take-or-pay contracts are, there was no enforcement action in quarter four, meaning that
no one stopped taking and didn't fulfill their contract, and therefore we booked the overall
revenue that was outstanding on the contract. What you saw was primarily the impact of people,
in order to keep the contracts current, they have to buy a certain amount within a calendar year.
What we're seeing is many people delay that until the fourth quarter. May recall actually in the
fourth quarter of 2013, we had this sudden rush, we actually couldn't fulfill it all, and some spilled
into quarter one of 2014. We're prepared for that this year, but people are living up to their
contracts, so there is no enforcement of a take-or-pay where we recognized the revenue in
quarter four.
Q - `Wamsi Mohan, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `And do you expect overall equity earnings to be up, flat, up or down in 2015?
A - James B. Flaws
I'll give some more comment on equity earnings when we get to the IR Day.
Q - `Wamsi Mohan, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. Thanks, Jim. And then last question for me is on, from a gross margin perspective, you
should be seeing the benefit of CPM and the increased synergies flow through on a constant,
like, ¥99, basis. So as we look through the trend into 2014, shouldn't we expect the 2015 trend in
gross margins to continue to trend up through the course of the year?
A - James B. Flaws
So assuming that we get moderate price declines every quarter, which is what our expectation is,
we expect excellent cost reduction and that will contribute to improved gross margins.
Q - `Wamsi Mohan, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thanks, Jim.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Mark Sue, RBC Capital Markets LLC from RBC Capital Markets. Please go ahead.
Q - `Mark Sue, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Thank you. Jim, you seem to be recognizing the benefit of the price strategy change made a few
years ago with stable share and moderate price declines. Structurally, the thought before was
that your primary competitors were focused less on margins than Corning is. That seems to all
have changed. Are we at a point where we can predict industry profit growth considering most of
the – all the players are actually focused on market share at this point?
A - James B. Flaws
I can't comment specifically on what our competition is going to do. I can tell you that we certainly
hope that the industry has moderate price declines, but I cannot predict what they're going to do.
Q - `Mark Sue, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Would you get the sense that everyone has seen the predictability and the benefit of stable
decline so that the rationality is likely to prevail, at least for Corning's point of view?
A - James B. Flaws
Again, Mark, I can't comment on what our competitors are seeing and doing and what their
outlook is. You can read their public statements. I can only comment that the quarter three of last
year, quarter four of last year and quarter one of this year, we have seen a moderating price
decline and we expect that to continue.
Q - `Mark Sue, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
That's helpful, Jim. And then on oil prices, I know it might be a stretch, but just wondering if you
have some data which correlates to lower gas prices and higher TV demand, and does actuallylower oil prices help with input costs as well for Corning, just how we should think about the
moving dynamics of this large variable for Corning?
A - James B. Flaws
So I have no correlation between energy prices at retail and the sale of televisions. You know, we
clearly believe that consumers are getting in their pocket quite a bit of benefit from the lower gas
prices and oil prices, if you're on diesoil (40:45). And so we think that could potentially show up
for us in terms of strength in consumer electronics and strength in the car business.
Relative to our own cost structure, energy is a very small component of our bill of materials;
actually as I think, you know in Display our largest component by far is depreciation. But generally
we'll be a natural gas user not an oil user. The days when we fired our tanks with oil are long
gone. But it will be a slight benefit. We do had some hedges so we don't get the immediate
benefit of that.
Q - `Mark Sue, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
That's helpful. Thank you, Jim.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Amitabh Passi, UBS Securities LLC from UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Amitabh Passi, UBS Securities LLC `
Hi, thank you. Jim, I apologize if you've touched on this. You're starting the year at 43% gross
margin. Just curious from here on out, should we expect gross margins to ebb and flow as
volumes in Display and your other segments trend or are there other underlying structural
enhancements that could meaningfully drive gross margin higher?
A - James B. Flaws
I think that as always our gross margin is the add up of all of our various segments. If we get
moderate price declines on Display all year long, other than Q2 which is generally the lower
volume quarter, I think we have the ability to slightly improve Display's gross margins with the
combination of cost reduction and moderate price declines.
As you think you know Gorilla is actually our highest gross margin product and so if there is strong
market growth in phones and tablets and it flows to us, that will help us from a mix point of view.
In telecom, the things that are selling well have slightly higher gross margin compared to the
average segments, so that could help. And finally, in Environmental, we've made dramatic
improvements in manufacturing, so our gross margins are improving there.
So I think you could see a slight increase in gross margins as we go through the year.
Q - `Amitabh Passi, UBS Securities LLC `
Okay. That's very helpful. And I wanted to clarify on the telecom segment, you talked about the
benefit of TR Manufacturing, but I presume in 1Q, you'll also include the Samsung fiber optics
business that you acquired in December?
A - James B. FlawsThe Samsung deal has not closed so that probably won't close until the end of February or the
end of March.
Q - `Amitabh Passi, UBS Securities LLC `
Okay.
A - James B. Flaws
So probably you won't see much impact of that until Q2.
Q - `Amitabh Passi, UBS Securities LLC `
Got it. And then just one final question, what are your expectations for the adoption of Iris which
you unveiled at CES? I mean, theoretically that gives you a third sheet of glass in TVs, but I'm just
curious how you're thinking about adoption rates?
A - James B. Flaws
I'm going to have to ask you to hold that question until our investor day on February 6 because
Iris will be talked about by both Wendell Weeks and Jim Clappin.
Q - `Amitabh Passi, UBS Securities LLC `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Patrick Newton from Stifel. Please go ahead.
Q - `Patrick M. Newton, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Yeah. Good morning, Jim. Thank you for taking my question. I guess number one is pertaining to
Gorilla Glass, I think you stated that volume growth should be in line with IT handheld and that
price declines would be more moderate than 2014 due to Gorilla Glass 4. I would love your view
on what Corning's outlook is for IT handheld in 2015? And then the pricing decline commentary,
2014 was relatively aggressive, could you help us kind of narrow the range a little bit?
A - James B. Flaws
I'm not going to give specific numbers on price, but the reduction for the full year of 2015 should
be quite a bit lower than what it was in 2014. In terms of market growth, I think we have handheld
square feet growing 15%. We're thinking media tablets could grow in the upper single digits. And
then of course we will have some growth from touch on notebook. And just a reminder, we hope
that all flows through us, but we have to always manage the supply chain, see how much
inventory there is. But we do think that those are the kind of growth rates we'll see at retail.
Q - `Patrick M. Newton, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
All right. And just one more from me. You seem pretty confident on display demand for the
industry in 2015, and so I want to focus on industry capacity. I know you're not going to talk about
competitor plans, but there have been some public announcements about new plants that will be
operational actually in 2015. So as we look at the industry, do you believe that new capacity
additions in areas like China are going to be matched by reductions in other geographies which is
similar to what we saw the industry do in 2014? Or do you think that as the situation with higher –I'm sorry, tighter capacity, healthy panel prices, growth in large TVs could result in industry actually
adding net capacity in 2015?
A - James B. Flaws
Well, the glass industry is adding capacity because of the continued drive to more thin. As I think
you know that for us in Korea, we were quite a bit lower on the amount of thin, so the glass
industry overall is benefiting from the move to thin. Corning is benefiting from it quite a bit in
Korea right now. In terms of new glass tank construction, there have been an announcement by
one of our competitors. I don't think that has much impact on 2015. And they did say that they
would do the same thing as they did in the past and shut down capacity in Japan. I just have to
rely on their public statements as you do.
So I don't think you're seeing any surge of glass capacity coming on. And I would say the industry
continues to manage their tanks in an appropriate manner. As an example, we have tanks that
remain cold that we're not lighting up.
Q - `Patrick M. Newton, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Rod Hall from JPMorgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `Rod B. Hall, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Yeah, thanks for taking my questions, guys. I guess I've got a couple. One, Jim, I wonder if you
could comment a little bit on UHD 4K price elasticity? I know your comments in Q3 were that
you've seen a little bit more elasticity at that point anyway than you thought, and I think you've
made positive comments on through the quarter, but just wanted to know what you think is
happening with price elasticity there and whether this 1.5 times price ratio between UHD and HD
still holds? Or do you think it's a higher ratio than that where we see demand acceleration?
A - James B. Flaws
Rod, it's probably a little premature because I don't have final numbers for December, but
directionally I continue to support what you said. I think that we felt, first of all, prices came down
more than we originally expected and particularly in large size, consumers are choosing 4K
overwhelmingly. But I just don't have final numbers. But in 10 days I'd ask you to direct that
question at our Display market team which will be in New York. We may have better data there.
Just speaking personally, put the CFO spin on it, I think 4K will be better than our official numbers.
Q - `Rod B. Hall, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Okay. Thanks. And then I also wanted to just clarify, I think you guys are – you're saying that pricing
for glass, TV glass moderates in Q1 further. On our calculations that puts it at moving toward a 2%
quarterly decline rate. Do you think that's kind of the bottom for the decline rate or do you
believe that we bottom out on the decline rate somewhere in the middle of 2015? Just trying to
get some idea on what the 2015 decline rate might look like in terms of trajectory.
A - James B. FlawsWell, we haven't given a specific number for Q1. It's again, very moderate and continuing the
trend we've had. I don't think there has to be a bottom on this, you know. We'd love to continue
to have price declines edge slightly lower every quarter. Let's see if we can make that happen.
But clearly we have high hopes of a low number.
Q - `Rod B. Hall, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
And then one final question is on your comments on Optical, you talked about North American
fiber-to-the-home, FTTx deployments. Title II regulation seems like it might effect that. I just
wonder if you could give us any thoughts you've got in terms of what the SEC regulatory changes
might mean for the trajectory of those revenues in 2015. If they mean anything at all?
A - James B. Flaws
Rod, I think it'll be all speculation on my part because I don't know exactly what the regulations
would be and how they would enforce them. I think our policy statement is pretty firm. We think
that the regulation that exists today has been very beneficial for the industry, and we think people
ought to be very careful about that. But as to exactly what it looks like and what our customers
would do, it'd just be pure speculation on my part.
I do think all of this comes against the obvious trend of bandwidth demand continues to grow
very rapidly, driven by video in particular. And I think everybody has to keep thinking about what
consumers want. But when you come to New York for our IR Day, I urge you to talk to Clark Kinlin
and a few of our telecom guys, they might have an even stronger point of view about it.
Q - `Rod B. Hall, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Okay. Great. Thanks a lot, Jim.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Fox from Cross Research. Please go ahead.
Q - `Steven B. Fox, Cross Research LLC `
Thanks. Good morning. Just circling back on the CPM improvements, you mentioned that again it
was greater than you anticipated, the $100 million, Jim. Can you sort of talk about what drove that
in the quarter and for the year? How much of it was just circumstances around the volume
growth? And then what can we expect for this year? And what kind of projects at CPM are driving
the incremental savings that you can get in 2015? Thanks.
A - James B. Flaws
Well, overall for CPM, we had the reduction in costs from reducing the number of people. We had
increasing utilization. We had some standardization between what we call our wholly-owned
business in CPM in terms of best practices. And then, of course, as you mentioned, actually
volume did help us. So I'd have to say it's more of the same for 2015. I can tell you that Jim
Clappin will be giving a presentation and will actually unveil a new number for 2015 there. I'll give
you a tease and that it'll be better.
Q - `Steven B. Fox, Cross Research LLC `
Great. That's very helpful. And then just a quick follow-up on the Optical. When you look at 2015
or just in Q1 rather, how much is enterprise versus, say, carrier growth? Where do you see thebetter opportunity for the quarter and then for the year? Thanks so much.
A - James B. Flaws
I just don't have those details with me, Steve. So I'd ask you to ask Clark Kinlin or Ann about it. I
just don't have them with me.
Q - `Steven B. Fox, Cross Research LLC `
All right. Fair enough. Thanks.
Operator
Your next comes from the line of `Joseph Wolf, Free Money Network, Inc. from Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `Joseph Wolf, Free Money Network, Inc. `
Thank you. Just a couple of questions. On the new sub (52:20) you're seeing, I guess Japan,
some of the large TV assembly guys cutting their capacity significantly. Our take has been that
that's helpful for, I guess, the other regions in the world. And I'm wondering if you could give us
some perspective there. And also if there's any chance that that means anything with regard to
yen pricing in the panel business going forward.
A - James B. Flaws
We obviously have seen the reports of cutbacks in Japan. I don't have any information as to
whether it has anything to do with the yen or it may be very customer specific to that panel
maker. So I really don't have much detail on it. Obviously, for us, we continue to think the
worldwide demand is strong regionally. China has been very good for us. So I think some of those
statements attributed that cutback to less demand for China. But overall, our Chinese demand
has been very strong.
Q - `Joseph Wolf, Free Money Network, Inc. `
Okay. And then just on – in terms of the cash position, could you just review for us how much of
that cash is outside of the United States and in what currency that's denominated in, and your
thinking about repatriation versus potential losses on holding things in euro right now?
A - James B. Flaws
So we will be giving our U.S. cash position in our 10-K, which will be filed in the second week of
February. It has been improving. We don't hold euros, so we're not losing. Our treasurer is quite
proud of himself this morning for having not been held in euros, so we don't have that situation.
And we do have repatriation plans and strategies as we talked about before, and when you see
our 10-K I think you'll be delighted.
Q - `Joseph Wolf, Free Money Network, Inc. `
Excellent. Thank you very much.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Simona Jankowski from Goldman Sachs. Please go
ahead.Q - `Simona K. Jankowski, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Hi. Thanks very much. Recognizing that you're going to hold off on most Iris comments to the
Analyst Day, but just wanted to clarify if any potential ramp into the back half of the year is
included or not in the outlook you gave for high-single-digit growth for the glass market this year.
A - James B. Flaws
It was not included.
Q - `Simona K. Jankowski, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Okay. And then Jim, could you expand a little bit on the three items you referenced that drove
the one-point delta in gross margins versus expectations?
A - James B. Flaws
They really were pretty minor things. I think we made an adjustment to one contract that – sales
contract that would have been amortized over three years, and we took it all in one quarter
because of the change in terms. And there was a little bit of a customer mix in one of our
businesses for a lower gross margin customer. So as I said, there was nothing that was at any
significance in any – it was not an alarming trend or anything to us.
Q - `Simona K. Jankowski, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Got you. The first one you referenced -- was that in the Display segment in terms of the
contractual pricing adjustment?
A - James B. Flaws
Yes.
Q - `Simona K. Jankowski, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Okay. Got you. And then just last question on Specialty Materials where you talked about your
expectation of more moderate pricing this year versus last year. Is that entirely due to the mix
shift to Gorilla Glass 4, or is that also the case on a like-for-like basis? And then I just wanted to
confirm that you have had your price negotiations for this year, or is that still ahead?
A - James B. Flaws
So, the majority of the impact is due to the mix shift with Gorilla 4 and the higher price in Gorilla 4.
We do hope to have smaller price declines on Gorilla Glass 3, there'll still be customers who are
buying that. I think we have completed a lot of our Gorilla price negotiations. I don't think we've
done them all at this stage.
Q - `Simona K. Jankowski, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Okay. Terrific. Thank you very much.
A - Ann H. S. Nicholson `
Operator, we've got time for one more quick question.
OperatorOkay. That question comes from the line of James Faucette from Morgan Stanley. Please go
ahead.
Q - `James E. Faucette, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Thank you very much. I just had one quick follow-up question and a little bit higher-level question.
As you look at the growth in capacity coming from China, particularly new Chinese entrants into
the glass market, and put that together with the increase in demand out of the Chinese OEMs, et
cetera, where are you seeing those new Glass entrants come into the market? Are they coming
in at the low end and not really having much of an impact, or are you starting to run into them on
a day-to-day basis? And I'm just wondering how you're thinking about from a long-term, they're –
I'm sure they have ambitions to move up, like where you think you need to meet them and
compete with them directly going forward? Thank you.
A - James B. Flaws
Sure. So short term, new entrants have not had much impact on the marketplace. We've seen
them in smaller generations in China and somewhat in Taiwan, but they really have not had much
of an impact on the market at all. They clearly have higher aspirations as do everybody who is in
business, and so we recognize over a longer term, and I emphasize longer term, we know we
have to compete with them. Many of these are state-owned enterprises. But in the short to
medium horizon, I don't think this is an issue for our Display business and our results.
A - Ann H. S. Nicholson `
Great. Jim, you have some closing comments?
A - James B. Flaws
Sure. Thanks, Ann. Just a couple of investor relations comments. As I've been mentioning
throughout my comments and hoping you'll attend, we have our Annual Investor Day in New York
City on February 6. It's at a new location. It's again at a Cipriani but at Cipriani Wall Street, so
downtown. We're going to have numerous hands-on demonstrations at our business exhibits and
we'll be giving you growth expectations for 2015 and talking about a lot of the new products. So
in addition to our CEO, Wendell Weeks, and myself, our three business group leaders will be
speaking to you about their plans to continue their sales and earnings growth. It'll be very
informative hands-on event and I really hope you'll consider attending in person.
Just to summarize on the call, we finished 2014 with an outstanding quarter and achieved our
goal of year-over-year earnings growth in every quarter this past year. We did an outstanding job
with the CPM acquisition. It's brought the company and our shareholders numerous benefits
including immediate accretion and excellent free cash flow. We're making great progress on
improving manufacturing efficiencies and controlling our costs in our businesses.
Ultimately, this all resulted in a 24% earnings-per-share growth last year. I think very important for
our investors, we returned significant cash to shareholders when we completed our $2 billion
share buyback program last year and also announcing a $1.5 billion share buyback program for the
beginning of this year. And finally, increasing our dividend with a 20% increase that's effective in
the first quarter.
We're coming into 2015 with expectations for growth in sales and even more in earnings. We
intend to maintain stable Display earnings with moderate price declines. We're going to diligently
manage our glass capacity and continue to reduce costs. And we have prospects we believe forgrowth in Optical Communications, Specialty Materials, Environmental and Life Sciences. So stay
tuned for more details at our annual investor meeting.
Thank you again for listening. Ann?
A - Ann H. S. Nicholson `
Thank you, Jim, and thank you all for joining us today. Play back of the call is available beginning at
11:00 A.M. Eastern today and will run until 5:00 P.M. Eastern Tuesday, February 10. To listen dial
800-475-6701. The access code is 349651. The audiocast, of course, is available on our website
during that time.
Operator, that concludes our call. Please disconnect all lines.
Operator
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude your conference for today. Thank you for
your participation and for using AT&T Executive Teleconference. You may now disconnect.