Q4 2015 Earnings Call

Operator
Welcome to the Corning Incorporated Quarter Four 2015 Earnings Results. It is my pleasure to
turn the conference over to Ann Nicholson, Division Vice President of Investor Relations. Please
go ahead.
Ann H. S. Nicholson `
Thank you, Lois, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to Corning's fourth quarter conference
call. With me today is Wendell Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Tony Tripeny, Senior
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Jeff Evenson, Senior Vice President and Chief
Strategy Officer.
Before we begin our formal comments, I'd like to remind you that today's remarks contain
forward-looking statements that fall within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995. These remarks involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could
cause actual results to differ materially. These factors are detailed in the company's financial
reports.
You should also note that this presentation contains a number of non-GAAP measures, and our
results are presented in core performance measures. A reconciliation can be found on our
website. We have slides posting live on our website to accompany our formal comments, and
they will be available on our website later this morning.
Now I'll turn the call over to Wendell.
Wendell P. Weeks `
Thank you, Ann. Good morning, everyone. As we reported in this morning's press release, we
met, and in a few places, exceeded our expectations in quarter four and also beat consensus.
That said, year-over-year results in most of our businesses were impacted by the weak global
economy, the stronger dollar versus other currencies, and continued softness in the TV and IT
retail markets. We expect these headwinds to continue in quarter one.Despite the macroeconomic challenges we faced in quarter four, we had several major
successes executing against the strategy and capital allocation framework that we introduced in
October. The framework, which describes our leadership priorities for the next four years is
simple. We will focus our portfolio and utilize our financial strength to grow, create significant
value, and return cash to our shareholders.
As we told you in October, over the course of the next four years, we expect to generate and
deploy more than $20 billion through 2019. We will distribute more than $10 billion to our
shareholders which is, by the way, roughly half of our current market cap. And we will invest $10
billion in our growth and to sustain our industry leadership. We are confident this new framework
will drive the company forward and guide our value creation in 2016 and beyond.
So let me just take a few minutes to highlight our recent successes under this framework. We
generated more than $3 billion in adjusted operating cash flow in 2015 despite significant
macroeconomic headwinds. This is good evidence of our ability to generate the cash flow that
underpins our capital allocation plan. We're off to a good start on our commitment to return more
than $10 billion to our shareholders with a $1.25 billion accelerated stock repurchase program that
we completed last week.
We continue to focus our portfolio with the recent announcement of the strategic realignment of
our interest in Dow Corning Corporation. As we indicated when we announced the transaction,
we're very proud of Dow Corning's success over the last 72 years. However, Dow Corning's
Silicones business lies outside our three core technologies, four manufacturing and engineering
platforms, and five market access platforms. Given Dow's strong synergies with the Silicones
business, we believe the transaction unlocks the value of Dow Corning for our shareholders.
When we close this transaction, Corning will exchange its 50% interest in Dow Corning for 100%
of the stock of a newly formed Dow Corning entity that will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Corning. The new entity will own approximately 40% interest in Hemlock Semiconductor and
approximately $4.8 billion of cash. We believe that our ownership interest in Hemlock and the
additional $4.8 billion of cash on our balance sheet creates significant value.
$4.8 billion is approximately a 30 times multiple on the equity earnings from Dow Corning's
Silicones business. And it's important to remember that we expect the realignment to be
essentially tax-free. This additional cash increases the amount of funds available for deployment
from the $22 billion to $26 billion we discussed in October, to $26 billion to $30 billion through
2019. We will provide more details on how we intend to deploy this cash when we close the
transaction.
In support of our commitment to utilize our market access platforms and financial strength to
grow, we leveraged our competitive advantages and strengthened customer relationships in
Display to stabilize returns.
First, we established a long-term supply agreement and a low-cash investment in a Gen 10.5
glass manufacturing facility adjacent to BOE. By utilizing others' fundings, we significantly de-
risked this transaction and we expect outstanding returns. The investment total is $1.3 billion. Our
cash investment, however, is one fourth of that at $290 million and at that level exceeds our
target of obtaining $2.00 of every $3.00 from others when we invest in new melting capacity.
And second, we obtained favorable pricing for LCD glass in quarter four. It's no secret to any of
you that the display industry is experiencing significant challenges. The retail market for TV and IT
softened in the back half of 2015, and supply chain weeks of inventory grew. Despite theseStepping back and looking at 2015 as a whole, the display industry had its most challenging year
in the last five years on a number of dimensions. First, it was the lowest end market growth in
area terms over the last five years. Second, panel price declines were the highest they have been
in five years. And finally, the year ended with the highest level of inventory in the supply chain
over the past five years. Now, even in this environment, we had the smallest annual price decline
for glass in five years. This is important evidence that we're making significant progress on
stabilizing our returns in display. And as you will hear in a moment from Tony, that trend continues
in quarter one of this year.
And finally, evidence continues to build that we will successfully leverage our automotive market
access platform to disrupt the six billion square foot auto glazing market to drive growth for
Corning. We made two significant announcements. First, in December, we announced that Ford
will use Corning Gorilla Glass in the iconic Ford GT. This is the first production vehicle to use Gorilla
Glass for multiple glazing applications, including the windshield, rear engine cover and acoustic
separator.
It's a great example of leveraging our market access with the world's leading automakers to
pursue disruptive opportunities while utilizing our existing fusion assets. This collaboration
demonstrates what Corning does best: applying expertise in glass and materials science to help
industry leaders solve tough challenges, unleash new capabilities, and enhance experiences for
their customers.
Second, just last week, we announced a joint venture with Saint-Gobain Sekurit to develop,
manufacture and sell lightweight automotive glazing solutions. Saint-Gobain is a leading global
producer of automotive glazing. Corning will continue to produce and market Gorilla Glass to this
JV and other glazers, retaining 100% ownership of the Glass business. This venture allows us to
move forward in the value chain beyond Glass to manufacture and sell glazing solutions with a
leading producer. This provides a low-cost path for us to scale Gorilla Glass glazing solutions
across the globe.
So to summarize, we're making solid progress delivering on our new framework. We are
generating a strong and sustainable operating cash, unlocking significant value for shareholders,
and focusing our portfolio by removing assets outside our core capabilities, leveraging our three
core technologies, four manufacturing engineering platforms and five market access platforms to
deliver strong financial performance. And we're returning cash to shareholders. Though we will
clearly face economic headwinds in the first half of 2016, our confidence continues to build in our
ability to deliver on our commitments to our shareholders.
Now I'll turn the call over to Tony, who will review our fourth quarter results and first quarter
outlook.
R. Tony Tripeny `
Thank you, Wendell, and good morning. Before I get into the details, there are two hot topics
with investors where I want to provide an update: LCD pricing and yen hedging after 2017.
Starting with the LCD glass pricing, I'll spend a few minutes giving you our perspective on the
display industry dynamics and explain why we are increasingly confident that our strategy to
stabilize returns will work.
Let's start with the end market. To recap 2015, it was a challenging year for the industry driven by
the fall-off in demand at retail. TV unit demand was actually down in several regions. Specifically,
TV demand in Europe and Latin America was weaker due to the effect of the stronger dollar onretail prices and continued economic uncertainty. Taken as a whole, worldwide TV unit sell-
through was down low-single digits. On an area basis, the unit decline was more than offset by an
average screen size growth of more than one inch.
In addition, IT and Mobile demand was weak driven by a lack of replacement drivers, the strong
dollar, and continued economic uncertainty. We estimate the worldwide IT market was down 6%
in area in 2015. In total, the glass market at retail was up about 2% in 2015 as measured in area.
As a result of the lower end market demand, supply chain inventory grew. Panel price declines
began to accelerate and panel makers began lowering utilizations in Q3 and lowered them again
in Q4. Panel prices fell 30% to 40% for the year, with most sizes approaching cash costs. While
inventories decreased in Q4, they are still at a high level.
All of that said, coming into 2016 we expect end market demand to recover in units and for
average TV screen size to continue to grow. Specifically, we expect sell-through units to be up
low-single digits, and for average screen size to grow at least 1.5 inches. We think demand for IT
in units will be consistent with 2015, and screen sizes will grow slightly.
As you can see on the slide, the biggest contributor to glass area growth is screen size. TV
screen size grow annually driven by affordability. As TV prices decline, consumers can buy a
bigger TV for the same price. For example, today you can purchase a 50-inch TV for the same
price as a 42-inch TV in 2013.
Now for TV units. TV units were down low-single digits last year. History tells us that when you
have a year with compressed TV consumption, you typically get a rebound the following year.
Other drivers supporting growth in 2016 are lower panel prices will have a positive effect on TV
retail prices and will therefore increase demand; the U.S. dollar depreciation is less likely to
continue; and we expect an improved economy in Western Europe. As a result, we expect
worldwide TV unit sell-through to be up about 2%. So for the full year, we expect demand for
LCD glass at retail to grow in the high-single digits. We will share more details on our market
outlook for LCD in February at our investor meeting.
Now let's turn to the display supply chain and look how the end market in terms of Glass sell-
through interacts with Glass demand. On this chart, the green line is end market demand and the
blue line is Glass market demand. When the green line is below the blue, panel makers are
running at higher utilizations to build inventory to support an upcoming retail season. When it's
below, inventory is being depleted by pull-through at retail. You can see in the timeframe of Q1 to
Q3 of 2015, the Glass market was flat because panel makers were maintaining utilizations in
anticipation of the retail season and it resulted in a significant inventory build.
Beginning in the third quarter of 2015 through Q1 of 2016, Glass market demand is lower as panel
makers lower utilizations in reaction to falling panel prices and a weaker end market. Panel maker
utilizations in the Glass market are expected to be down sequentially in Q1 allowing the supply
chain to reduce inventory. The combination of a healthier supply chain and end market growth will
lead to panel maker utilizations increasing and our Glass volume growing as the year progresses.
We expect this to start in the second quarter.
Now to sum up the year for Glass demand. In Q1 we expect the Glass market and our volume to
be down mid to high-single digits. The good news is that lower panel maker utilizations will help
drive down inventory. We expect Glass demand to resume strongly in the second half, and we
expect Glass demand for the full year to grow in the mid-single digits.Now let's turn to the bright spot, Glass pricing. Pricing in 2015 was the best in five years. Q4 price
declines were less than any other quarter last year, and we expect Glass prices in Q1 to decline
moderately sequentially. The price decline in Q1 is typically the highest quarterly decline of every
year because Q1 is when annual supply agreements are finalized. Our moderate Q1 price decline
this year equals the best Q1 declines we've seen in five years despite this very tough
environment. We think our Display strategy passed a significant test and that Q1 pricing is a strong
indicator that we can maintain favorable pricing going forward and deliver on stabilizing returns.
Now moving to the yen. As a quick refresher, we sell our Display glass in yen. We have hedged to
2017 at an average rate of JPY 99. With the stability our hedging program gives to our display
cash flows, investors naturally ask what happens in 2018 and beyond. Our response is that we'll
consider extending our hedge position as we gain certainty on our future yen flows and when the
currency market offers an attractive yen-dollar rate opportunity. We are happy to announce
progress on this front.
Late last year, we extended our long-term supply agreements with our two largest customers.
We extended our agreement with Samsung and BOE through 2025 and 2028 respectively. This
greatly increases our confidence in future yen flows.
On the rate front, I'm sure you all noted the recent volatility in the currency markets and the brief
strengthening of the yen. We took advantage of this opportunity to add to our hedge position. At
this point, we are hedged for approximately 70% of our anticipated yen flow from the time
period of 2016 to 2022 at an average rate of JPY 106. For those investors who were concerned
about our yen exposure beyond 2017, this action will greatly mitigate those concerns.
Because our capital allocation framework factored in weak yen scenarios, the additional hedges
give upside to our expected operating cash flow in our four-year plan. So while the yen will always
be an important topic, we significantly reduced the downside risk and increased the certainty in
our ability to return greater than $10 billion to shareholders over the next four years.
Now let's get into fourth quarter financials. For the quarter, we met, and a few places, exceeded
our expectations and we also beat consensus. As a reminder, these are core results.
Sales in the quarter were $2.4 billion and higher than consensus. This was down 5% versus last
year's strong fourth quarter. Corporate gross margin was 42% as expected. This is consistent
with Q3 but lower than last year. Most of our businesses have a relatively high fixed cost structure
therefore, the decreased sales lower our gross margin as a percentage of sales versus last year.
S&A and RD&E were down versus last year in absolute dollars. S&A was a bit higher than we
expected due to external fees associated with our external transactions. These expenses are
one-time in nature and we do not expect them to repeat.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was lower than expected. Congress passed the Extenders
Bill in December and this reduced our tax expense by approximately $20 million. Net income was
$429 million and lower than last year. The lower earnings reflect the lower volumes mainly in
Display and the impact of foreign exchange rates. Additionally, last year we received payment
regarding an IP dispute that did not repeat. EPS was $0.34 and exceeded consensus. For the full
year, our sales and earnings reflected the macroeconomic headwinds in the back half of the year.
Now let's look at detailed segment results beginning with Display Technologies. Display
performance in Q4 was in line with our guidance. Volume was down slightly, price declines were
moderate as expected, and the lowest sequential decline in 2015. Display sales were $903million, and net income was $234 million. As a reminder, in Q4 last year we received a payment
regarding an IP dispute that did not repeat.
As anticipated, in the fourth quarter, panel makers again lowered utilizations in response to the
softer end market I already mentioned, which resulted in volume down low-single digits for the
Glass market. Our volume was down slightly sequentially, a bit better than market declines due to
the favorable resolution of a customer dispute leading to recovery of the missed volume at that
customer.
Sequentially, fourth quarter price declines were moderate as expected and declined less than in
Q3. During the quarter, we secured the majority of our 2016 volume under customer
agreements, helping us maintain stable share, which in turn enables us to be more efficient in
planning, manufacturing and reducing cost. Display sales were down 8% for the full year, and net
income was down 14%. The reduction in net income was the result of the slower growth of the
LCD glass market at retail in 2015 that I already spoke to.
We had many accomplishments in Display in 2015. I already talked about the favorable pricing. We
extended long-term supply agreements with two major customers that go to the middle of the
next decade. The integration of CPM continues to go well and we exceeded our synergy target.
And finally, we reduced costs by more than 10%, and we continue to maintain our significant cost
leadership.
Now, moving to Optical Communications, which performed better than our guidance. Q4 sales
were $736 million and up 9% versus last year driven by acquisitions and growth in fiber to the
home. This was better than expected driven by stronger carrier network sales. Net income was
$47 million in Q4. Net income was down 2% versus last year, which is not what you would expect
with sales growth. This is mostly about mix. We had less of our sales in our higher margin data
center integrated solutions and more of our sales in lower margin products like cable from our
newly acquired Korean operation. We also experienced higher cost in our fiber business. We are
addressing the cost issue, and we expect overall profitability to improve in 2016.
For the full year, we are very pleased with Optical Communications' performance which well
exceeded our goal of growing more than two times the telecom industry CapEx rate. Sales were
up 12% to $3 billion driven by growth in nearly all parts of our business. Sales would have been up
16% without the impact of FX. Net income was up 28% and significantly more than sales growth.
The improved profitability was driven by the additional volume in fiber to the home and data
center solutions, and strong manufacturing performance.
In Environmental, Q4 performance was also better than expectations. Q4 sales were $254 million,
up 2% versus last year. Without the impact of FX, sales would've been up 5%. During the quarter,
China implemented a stimulus program for car sales and that drove demand for our light-duty
products higher than expected. Soft demand in China for heavy-duty products continued. The
year-over-year profitability was down as expected and similar to Q3. It was driven mostly by the
weaker euro and lower volume in the heavy-duty China market.
For the full year, sales were down 4% and net income was down 12%. Sales would've been up 2%
without the impact of FX, and profitability would have been consistent with record 2014
performance. In 2015, we expected growth in the global auto market and we expected another
year of growth in North America and China heavy duty truck production. We invested capacity to
support this growth. We grew as expected in all markets, except for China where heavy duty
truck builds were down 30% and China's auto growth, while stronger in Q4, was less than
expected for the full year.As we start 2016, we see continued strength in the auto market, but are being impacted in our
heavy duty segment in China and now in North America, which is coming off a two-year peak. As a
result, we are carrying costs associated with capacity that is currently underutilized but is ready,
and we'll deliver expanding margins when market volumes resume. We have taken action on cost
which continues through the first half, and we expect gross margin percentages is to improve
year-over-year beginning in the second half of 2016.
Moving on to Specialty Materials which performed in line with guidance. Gorilla Glass volume was
down sequentially and versus a strong Q4 2014 as we expected. This reflected the reduction of
supply chain builds compared to a very strong build in Q4 2014. Sales were $275 million and net
income was $44 million. Segment net income was up 40% in Q4 mainly due to improved gross
margins in Gorilla versus last year, aided by Gorilla Glass 4 prices, improved cost, and the non-
repeat of a one-time unfavorable item last year.
For the full year, Specialty Materials sales were down 8% driven by lower sales of Advanced
Optics. Sales in Advanced Optics were down related to the completion of a large aerospace and
defense program, softer demand in the semiconductor industry and the weaker euro. Net
income, on the other hand, was up 11% driven by Gorilla Glass volume growth, adoption of Gorilla
Glass 4, and cost reductions. We are pleased with our Gorilla Glass business. The market demand
for cover glass was up approximately 10% in 2015, and we gained share with the big China OEMs
and on touch notebooks. Additionally, the successful introduction and adoption of higher-priced
Gorilla Glass 4 had a very favorable impact on our profitability.
In Life Sciences, Q4 sales were $202 million. Both sales and net income were down year-over-
year driven by foreign exchange. For the full year, sales were down 5% and net income was down
12%. But both would have been up excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
Q4 gross equity earnings from Dow Corning was $78 million as expected. Hemlock contributed
$39 million of the total, up from Q3 driven by customers fulfilling their annual contracts. For the full
year, Dow Corning's equity earnings were $245 million.
Now let's turn to our balance sheet and cash flow. We delivered free cash flow in the quarter of
$628 million and over $1 billion of adjusted operating cash flow. For the full year, we generated
$3.2 billion in adjusted operating cash flow and spent $1.25 billion on CapEx and had free cash
flow of $1.5 billion. As Wendell indicated, more than $3 billion in adjusted operating cash flow for
the full year really gives us confidence in our ability to deliver our capital allocation plan.
During the quarter, we spent $1.3 billion on share repurchases. This reflects our accelerated stock
repurchase program. For the full year, we spent $3.2 billion on repurchases and lowered
outstanding shares by 151 million shares. We ended the year with $4.6 billion of cash with
approximately $1 billion in the U.S.
Now for the outlook. We expect the global economic headwinds to persist in the first quarter and
to impact our business – all of our businesses year-over-year. We expect the first quarter to be
the weakest of 2016 and we anticipate growth will recover in subsequent quarters.
Let's begin by looking at each of our businesses. This morning, I will provide our Q1 expectations
with some additional color on the full year. You can expect to hear more about our business
outlooks at our upcoming IR day.
Beginning with Display. To repeat what I said earlier in the call, in Q1 we expect the Glass market
and our volume to be down mid to high-single digits driven by lower panel maker utilizations that I
already mentioned. Once the supply chain returns to normal, we expect panel maker utilizationsand our Glass volumes to grow. We expect this growth to start in Q2. We expect our LCD glass
prices to decline moderately sequentially. Given how our contracts work, we are confident that
the price declines will be moderate in the quarter.
As we have previously explained, we expect this more-favorable pricing environment to continue
and maybe even improve for two primary reasons. First, the financial situation of our competitors
indicate that they cannot continue historical price declines and remain profitable. And second, as
we said before, we believe that glass supply and demand will remain balanced throughout the
recent weakening in panel demand.
We are keeping capacity offline to match our supply to our demand. Other glass suppliers have
said publicly that they have levers to take similar actions. For these and other reasons, we
continue to believe that our quarter-over-quarter price comparisons will be better for us going
forward than they have been overall in the past.
So to summarize Display, we expect our volume in Q1 to reflect the weaker retail market and
lower panel maker utilizations and we will manage supply to demand. We do not believe that the
current economic environment reflects any fundamental change to our longer-term drivers of TV
demand, and that the end market will recover in 2016.
Moving to Optical Communications. For the first quarter, we expect sales to be up low to mid-
single digits versus last year. For the full year, we expect our sales to be up mid-single digits and
exceed our goal of at least two times the overall industry CapEx growth rate.
Turning to Environmental. The U.S. heavy duty truck market is forecasted to be down about 20%
in 2016 after a two-year peak, and we also expect China's heavy duty market to remain weak.
This will impact our heavy duty volume and segment sales in Q1. We expect sales to be down
approximately 10% versus last year. We do expect auto production to increase this year, but we
do not expect it to offset the lower heavy duty demand and continued FX drag. So our outlook
for the full year is for Environmental sales to be down slightly from 2015.
In Specialty Materials, we expect Gorilla Glass volume to grow in the high-single digits this year.
However, in Q1, segment sales are expected to decline mid-teens year-over-year and primarily to
the absence of a ramp for new product launches by mobile device manufacturers like we had in
Q1 of 2015. For the full year, we anticipate double-digit sales and net income growth in Specialty
Materials driven by Gorilla Glass.
In Life Sciences, we expect Q1 sales to be up low-single digits versus last year with underlying
growth offset by the weaker euro. For the full year, we expect to grow sales faster than the
market which is expected to be up low-single digits.
Continuing with the rest of our Q1 forecast. We expect gross margin to be approximately 41%.
This is a one point decline sequentially due to the expected lower display and lower Gorilla Glass
volume. We expect gross margin to improve with volumes in our businesses starting in the
second quarter.
SG&A and RD&E spending will be approximately 14% and 8% of sales respectively. We expect
other income/other expense to be a net expense of approximately $50 million. We expect Q1
equity earnings from Dow Corning to be approximately $45 million. This is down from Q4 where
polysilicone customers met annual contract obligations. For the full year, we expect slight growth
in both silicones and polysilicone sales. We expect our effective tax rate for 2016 to be in the 16%
to 17% range.That concludes our outlook for the first quarter. Now I will hand the call back to Wendell to
summarize before we go to Q&A.
Wendell P. Weeks `
Thank you, Tony. Well, no surprise, the global economy is impacting our company. Nonetheless,
we continue to make solid progress on many critical fronts. Despite the worst display industry
environment in five years, glass price declines are the smallest they've been in five years. This
provides us a good foundation for stabilizing returns to this business.
We're generating excellent operating cash flow, and we are returning cash to our shareholders.
We are beating the competition and we have a great opportunity set ahead of us as exemplified
by our recent progress on attacking the automotive glazing market with Gorilla Glass.
Now we look forward to sharing many more details of our strategy and capital allocation
framework at our annual investor meeting next week. Ann?
Ann H. S. Nicholson `
Thank you, Wendell and Tony. I will now open up the lines for questions. Lois?
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. Our first question will come from the line of Vijay Bhagavath from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Vijay K. Bhagavath, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Yeah. Hey. Good morning to you. Great call, and you guys are doing an amazing job with keeping
your Displays business steady with all these directions going on.
The question for you is it's no surprise that China consumer demand is starting to weaken
especially in terms of sentiment with all the drama we're seeing in the China market there. Do
you anticipate heading forward into the rest of the year further weakness in TV demand from the
Chinese consumers? And my guess is roughly 40% of HDTV sales will be to the China market. So
that's where I'm coming from. I'd like to get some qualitative commentary from you through the
rest of the year if China consumer demand for TV sets would deteriorate. How would that impact
your Displays business? Thanks.
A - R. Tony Tripeny `
So, I think from an overall standpoint, actually last year, China was one region that had strong
growth on a year-over-year basis. And that includes in the fourth quarter where there were strong
sales on things like the Singles Day on November 11th and also the sales starting in the early part
of December for the Chinese New Year's.
I think there is a – I think the important thing to keep in mind when we look at our growth on sales
on a year-over-year basis at glass at retail, what really drives a lot of that growth, of course, is
what happens with the screen size. And as you saw on the chart that we presented, that's the
biggest single driver of our growth on a year-over-year basis. We think sales are going to be up
2% TV unit sales on a year-over-year basis. It could be a little bit weaker than that. But we think
our range of being up in the high-single digits, we feel pretty good about that. And a lot of thatQ - `Vijay K. Bhagavath, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
And a quick follow-up if I may, the Summer Olympics would mostly be broadcast in 4K. Do you
anticipate any mid-year spike in 4K TV demand? Because a lot of us would like to watch Summer
Olympics on 4K. Thanks.
A - R. Tony Tripeny `
We would love for you to watch the Summer Olympics in 4K. I think when we look at 4K demand
in general, it did increase in 2015 to about 28 million units. We hope to – we expect it to probably
come close to doubling in 2016. The price points are getting close to the 1.5 and which we think
will really increase the adoption from a demand standpoint. But it's always hard to tell on sporting
events. Often it does give us a little bit of a pickup right before, but from a whole year standpoint
it's kind of hard to distinguish them.
Q - `Vijay K. Bhagavath, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you and our next question comes from the line of Rod Hall with JPMorgan. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Rod B. Hall, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Yeah. Hi, guys. Thanks for the questions. So I've got a couple for you. The first one, I wanted to
dive into macro more broadly. You're indicating a weaker Q1 than we expected but a pretty
strong full-year guide, and I'm just wondering behind that what you're assuming for macro
through the year. You said that the first half of the year, you expect it to be weak but it looks like
heavy duty trucks are slow. That's usually a pretty good leading indicator of macro. We see a lot
of other indicators that the U.S. is weakening. So just curious to hear what your views of macro
through the year are that informed that full-year guidance.
Second question I wanted to ask, Tony, was on the hedging. Can you talk about the fade of the
hedging? So you said 70% coverage, I assume that's higher in the earlier years and then fades
through that period but can you give us a little bit more color on that? And then finally, Optical
was very strong, any color on regional strength or project strength there? Thanks a lot.
A - R. Tony Tripeny `
Okay. Well first, starting from a macroeconomic standpoint, we're not expecting a whole lot of
change relative to the macroeconomics in 2016. I think as we look at each of our business units
and what's driving the growth there, a lot of it is continuations of what we have seen in 2015. I
mean, the one area we do think will be down on a year-over-year basis is the one that you
mentioned, which is in heavy duty trucks in North America. We expect to see continued weakness
in heavy duty trucks in China and that's why Environmental in total, we think, will be down kind of
in a low-single digits.
From a yen standpoint, actually we're covered really throughout that – we're covered very
significantly in 2016 and 2017, and then as we go out after that we're covered at a lower
percentage than that. So you are correct on that. And then, Wendell, do you want to talk about
what's happening in Optical? I mean, it's mostly in North America.A - Wendell P. Weeks `
Sure. I'll hit on all three of Rod's questions. First, good to hear from you, Rod. On the macro front,
bottom line is we're planning on not that exciting an economy in this coming year. Where you see
us recovering as the year goes on mainly has to do with the supply chain correction in Display and
some pickup in some very specific areas where we have very high margin product sets, like in
Gorilla and some particular market segments in opto that have less to do with the economy and
more to do with just the cycle of product introductions or where they are in the build cycles. But in
general, we're with you. We don't see that much good news in the economy here in the near-
term.
On the yen though, yeah it fades. What Tony and his team have managed to do here is the
coverage is still quite high all the way out for a lot of years. So in many ways, this has just lopped
off the downside risk of the yen. And the compliment I would make to him and his team is once
we got in place the long-term supply agreements that gave us confidence we were going to
have the yen flows. Then we just bided our time and we're disciplined waiting for what we knew
to be a volatile moment in the markets, the yen would sink, and then we had in place all the
trades that would make it close at a rate that we think is attractive and gives our shareholders a
good shot.
So in opto – actually, though opto was really strong throughout the year, we think it can get
stronger because we had two areas that were sort of in a low cycle in quarter four and somewhat
in quarter one, which is sort of the ultra data center market. And we're sort of in between big
builds in fiber to the home, right? We're sort of wrapping up in Australia. We've got new ones on
board that are going to be coming on stream. So right now, opto continues to feel strong mainly
because of how superior our product set is and the extent that we're really beating the
competition in all of our core sort of high value-add systems.
Q - `Rod B. Hall, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Great. Thanks a lot, guys. And congrats on the hedging.
A - Wendell P. Weeks `
Thanks, buddy.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP from SIG. Please go ahead.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Yes. Thanks for taking my question. It's `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP from SIG. Just as a follow-up to the
previous question and focusing on your Display, what is it in the supply chain that you see that
gives you the confidence with your year-end unit volume up 5%? And I ask that because this
would suggest a very strong sequential growth in Q2, Q3 off of your Q1 guide. So anything
company-specific or supply chain-specific that you can offer, gives us confidence would be great.
And I have a follow-up.
A - R. Tony Tripeny `
Sure. I think when you go back and take a look at that chart on the demand that happens from a
glass market standpoint and then from the retail market, what happens when panel makers lowerof that happened in Q4 and we expect more of that to happen in Q1. And once that happens,
then you're much more aligned with where panel maker utilizations will increase their utilizations
and our glass volume will grow. We do expect that to happen more in the second half, but we do
think there will be growth in the second quarter.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Got you.
A - Wendell P. Weeks `
And Mehdi, all I would add is I think to get a handle on this, you go back to that slide you saw from
Tony. It's got a slide that says expect 2016 retail market growth of high-single digits. Once that is –
the first thing to get comfortable with is where do you see TV units? It's not a big part of the
overall growth story but that's up 2%, we think, right? Then it's about size. And we'll share more
about this in the IR day but television screen size has been one of the surest bets in display, and
we expect that to contribute a lot. And then of course IT and small adds a little.
So the first thing to get comfortable about is what do you think about total LCD glass area
growth? And we're sort of in line with what we see out of the sort of most trusted external
sources and we have some specific thoughts on TV screen size. Then we go from that 8% to 10%
to then we're going to see the supply chain decline, right, and use up some of that growth. And
that's what will take us to up mid-single digits. So I think, Mehdi, the first thing to sort of get
comfortable about is what do you think is really happening at demand. And we'll try to give you
some of those details so you can make a good judgment, okay?
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Great. Thanks for the detailed color. And then moving on to Specialty – the area of Specialty with
diversification of application into auto. It's great that you have customer diversification, but can
you help us understand how the margin profile is going to play out. Especially in the past, one
particular customer may have pressured you on the prices, now that you have diversification of
application and customer, should we expect the recent improvement in operating margin were to
sustain?
A - Wendell P. Weeks `
Now when you say auto, are you speaking about glazing? Are you speaking about our
Environmental approach?
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Glazing. Gorilla application – the Gorilla using other application.
A - Wendell P. Weeks `
I think the way you should think about the way we're going to price this, right, is you should think
about it sort of in the range of what we sell LCD glass for. So it's not going to be as profitable as
some of our consumer electronics Gorilla stuff is, but it's still going to be quite profitable as you
can take a look at our Display business.
The key thing here isn't going to be how profitable it'll be, the key thing is going to be here is
how successful can we be about sort of turning that market up on its head with our new
lightweight solutions. If we can do that and get the volume, we're all going to love the profitabilitybecause we already have the capital in place, really. So the first $400 million of revenue we get in
that business is going to be like a free shot on goal because we'll be able to create that capacity
rather than through capital spending than rather through productivity on our LCD and Gorilla
businesses. So the key thing to watch there is can we get that volume closed, Mehdi.
A - Jeffrey W. Evenson `
Yeah. This is Jeff. And as we move from the glazing market to the interior of the car, we see
strong potential there for actual selling for more than we do even in the consumer electronics
space because managing reflections and durability is so much more important in a car than it is
even on your phone.
A - Wendell P. Weeks `
Well Jeff, from your mouth to Gods ear. That'd be great.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Thank you. So if you had 16% net margin for Specialty Material in 2015, is this a bogey – is that
something that we could model for going forward?
A - Wendell P. Weeks `
I think for auto what we ought to do is reflect a little and let's see what we can do to help you in
thinking if you mean for auto. For Specialty, I think what we would hope, what we're trying to get
done in Gorilla is we're introducing ever more advanced product sets, that in terms of pure glass
that sort of our revenue per device will go up and with that our margin. As well as we're also
going to add some other features to increase our revenue even further, and those may be at a
little lower margins. But in auto, I think we owe you – once we get a little but more momentum
going, we owe you how to think about that business.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Got it. Very helpful. Thank you
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from the line of `Joseph Wolf, Barclays Capital, Inc. from Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `Joseph Wolf, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Thank you. Just two follow-up questions, I guess I'll start with auto. I just want to – as you look at
the selling proposition right now, it sounds like the assets are in place. But when you go to these
auto guys now that you have the glazing relationship, are you selling weight reduction and does
oil pricing matter, or are you selling visibility, optics and clarity? And how is that being – or how is
that resonating with the customer base right now?
A - Wendell P. Weeks `
So great question, Joseph. We're hitting on really three things that are in the value prop. The first
is lightweight. Now despite the low gas prices, all of the car companies have sort of by regs have
a target for what they have to increase miles per gallon for their fleet. So they're all very
interested in light weighting the vehicle. They have specific numbers in mind that they pay for
every pound or kilo that they save. And with us being able to serve greater than 30% of – reduceweight by greater than 30% at glazing, at a price point that looks attractive in terms of those
weight buys, that gets traction.
But what we're also able to do is actually increase the safety of the vehicle. Because even though
we're going lighter weight, basically what happens is when you have something like a rock strike,
it can penetrate the outer layer of the soda-lime glass but then it doesn't penetrate Gorilla. As
well to that safety component, is what we've been able to show is dramatically reduced
windshield replacements.
Is that – with something like the sharp rock strike, basically we could save almost half of
windshield replacements because, once again, the glass reacts in a much stronger, tougher way.
So you don't end up with those classic cracks that can happen from thermal shock after you've
had damage introduced to the glass from something sharp or blunt, for that matter.
And then finally, it's the enhanced experience for the driver because here you're looking at a
purely optical piece of glass, right? We make this on the same asset sets until we make Display,
right? So this piece of glass, and because it's thinner, allows you to have HUD displays that are
70% or more bigger and tremendously clearer.
I mean, one of the things Jeff did at the Consumer Electronic Show, and you will get a chance to
see it at IR day, is take a look at sort of a HUD that rebuilt in conjunction with Conti [Continental],
who's one of the – who is the biggest HUD manufacturer in the world. What they said was we
have never seen a HUD display like this. It's incredible. Far and away.
So it's all those three things. Are we getting pull? Without doubt. People are really excited about
it. Now to calm us all down, damn this industry moves slow, okay? So this is a very conservative
industry for good reason, right? So man, it's going to take time for us to build, which is why we
keep pointing to these proof points along the way. We'll know where we are long before the
volume shows up. So that's probably more than you wanted to know, Joseph.
Q - `Joseph Wolf, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
No, that's great. And just as a follow-up on Optical. You started to address this, but what are the
levers if you think about the opportunities in between product cycles and the fiber business, or
builds in different geographies and kind of a seasonal? It sounds like ultra data centers sort of
environment. What are the levers to get the margins up in 2016? And should we expect any of
that throughout the year?
A - Wendell P. Weeks `
I think the two major levers are – you were on the first one, which you heard Tony talk about,
which is about mix, right? So we make more money when we sell these highly integrated
solutions, and we're the only guy in the world that does. So you know it's a classic example of
capitalism working, right? And for those – we certainly don't expect there to be less data centers
built in the coming year. The main thing that's happened with the hyper scale data centers is
there is like an adjustment from just a couple of key customers that have sort of adjusted their
inventory. We expect them to come back online. We're going to look to expand our presence
there, right? So that's one way we do it.
And then the other is more like you say. We've got to wait for the right cycles and builds on fiber
to the home and how that works. Meanwhile, we'll do the things we always do on margins, we
relentlessly drive our costs down every year and you can expect that to happen in opto as wellA - R. Tony Tripeny `
Yeah. No, that's exactly right. And one of the things that happened in the fourth quarter will
continue a little bit into Q1, but will certainly be resolved by the end of Q1 or just some production
issues that we've run into that we will get ourselves worked through. We're already well into that,
and you'll start seeing margins improve there.
Q - `Joseph Wolf, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
All right think you
Operator
Thank you. And our next question will come from the line of `Patrick Newton, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. from Stifel. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Patrick Newton, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Yeah. Good morning, Wendell and Tony. Thank you for taking my questions. I guess a two-part
question on Specialty Materials. On the near-term front you talked about not having some new
product releases from customers, but I'm curious typically you don't see a sequential step down
of this level in Gorilla, or I guess in Specialty Materials barring meaningful price reduction you saw
in 1Q 2013. So near-term, can you talk a little bit about the pricing and volumes that are impacting
your 1Q guide?
And then guiding to the very strong remainder of the year, can you touch on what is driving this?
Is this the beginning of some automotive benefits entering the model? Is touch accelerating in
new applications, or is it the largest demand driver from large customer and new product
launches?
A - R. Tony Tripeny `
Sure. So first, starting with the Q1, I think there's two things that are going on in Q1. I mean, one is
clearly the volume as we don't see that launch like we did a year ago. And I think there's lots of
people out there in the overall mobile device supply chain that have announced the similar type
things, and we are seeing that in Q1 also. Q1 is where we do see some price declines, but that's –
this is not like what you saw in 2013. This is mostly related from a volume standpoint. In terms of
what's going to drive the rest of the year, that – it is not about automotive and getting a win
there. This is all about consumer electronic devices, and as Wendell said, our ability to add value
onto those devices.
A - Wendell P. Weeks `
I think you've got it, Patrick, that it's going to primarily get driven by major new launches. As those
new products set to come out, we see that natural surge up in supply chain. Added profitability is
going to continue to come at us as Gorilla 4 continues to penetrate more. That's a product that
we make more money on than we did on Gorilla 3. And hopefully we can keep that trend going,
Patrick.
Q - `Patrick Newton, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Great. And then just as a follow up, Wendell, in your prepared remarks you said that weeks of
display inventory grew at the highest level, or is that the highest level in five years? And then youtimes in both the prepared remarks and Q&A that area growth or larger screen sizes is the key
driver for Display. So, I guess first, can you quantify where weeks of inventory currently stands in
the Display business?
And on the growth of TVs, you did guide for an increase of at least 1.5 inches, but given that we
probably saw that much or more in 2015, do you anticipate that area growth will reaccelerate
year-over-year, or have we passed that inflection point and should actually start to see area
growth rates slow?
A - R. Tony Tripeny `
So first on the supply chain, we aren't going to give the number of weeks. We've stopped doing
that, but I think it's safe to say it was very high at the end of the year. It did come down versus Q3
but it still ended up very high. And all of our remarks and thoughts about what's happening in Q1
is definitely based on that. From a screen size standpoint, I think screen size we think was up
about 1.2 inches, 1.3 inches. It was depressed a little bit because there was a big Mexico incentive
program. And we expect, as we said in 2016, for it to be more than 1.5 inches. How much more
than 1.5 inches it is, we don't know. We certainly have done some work and some analysis on that.
And if it ends up being more than that, then of course the market will be a little higher.
A - Wendell P. Weeks `
Yeah. Patrick, I'd just add to that, so last year it wasn't so much that the screen size this time, that
it grew. And as Tony said, the Mexican subsidy was about specifically 24-inch TV, something like
that – some ridiculously small TV. But what happened in the dynamic was the units went down,
right? And that is – I think, the key that is different between this coming year and last year is that
we expect units to sort of pop back as well as a little bit more oomph coming out of screen size.
Debatable, right? Debatable, I mean it's hard to see for sure into the future, but at every other
time we've seen a little dip like this, a compression in television demand, the year after has
usually bounced back a lot stronger than what we're guiding at. Right now, there's a lot of other
qualitative factors we can add up. But hey, man, it's a legitimate question, Patrick.
Q - `Patrick Newton, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Thank you. And Tony, in case I missed it, did you give a CapEx guidance for 2016?
A - R. Tony Tripeny `
No. We needed you to come to the IR meeting next week.
Q - `Patrick Newton, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
All right. See you there. Thank you
A - Wendell P. Weeks `
You're going to want you to see the displays anyway, man. It'll be worth coming.
A - R. Tony Tripeny `
Yeah. It'll be – that will not be the highlight of the meeting.
Q - `Patrick Newton, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `All right. Thank you for taking my questions.
A - Ann H. S. Nicholson `
Lois, we'll do one more quick question.
Operator
Thank you. And that question will come from the line of Doug Clark from Goldman Sachs. Please
go ahead.
Q - `Douglas Clark, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Great. Thanks for sneaking in my question here. Something that wasn't touched on during the call,
I'm just curious about the transition to even thinner glass, kind of 0.3 millimeter and below. Are
we seeing that in any real material volumes at this point, or is it still kind of lapping through the
transition to 0.5 millimeter and 0.4 millimeter?
A - Wendell P. Weeks `
Not yet. Not yet. That's a good question for Mr. Clappin when he shows up at our IR meeting, but
not yet. We've certainly got a number of folks talking to us about it. It's certainly something that
we can do, but we haven't seen the big shift start as of yet.
Q - `Douglas Clark, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Okay. Great. And then my one additional follow-up was just on the inventory situation throughout
the supply chain. I was just wondering if the utilization cuts are a global phenomenon. In other
words, are you also seeing utilizations come down in China as well, or is it more developed
market dynamics that are responding to the panel price declines?
A - Wendell P. Weeks `
That is a really clever insightful question, right? That's very clever. So we've seen something a
little different in the supply chain in 2015 than we have in other years. Typically, the panel makers
have gotten a lot – well not typically, but the panel makers have gotten a lot sharper. When panel
prices are falling and they start to approach sort of their cash costs, they have been not keeping
any inventory and they have been rapidly adjusting their utilization. And we saw that from most of
the highly established developed panel makers.
We saw less of a reaction out of the major Chinese panel makers, some of whom are our really
big customers who continued to run their panel fabs probably longer than they should have.
We've seen a buildup of some very small size TVs in that set. However, we're seeing them adjust
now. But that's a very clever question. It's something we're going to have to keep an eye on to
get an understanding of will the emergence of these strong Chinese players mean that the
supply chain's going to run a little fatter than it used to, or is it just a matter of where they are in
their own cycle of learning. We need a little more data to know.
Q - `Douglas Clark, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Very well. I appreciate that color. Thank you.
A - Wendell P. Weeks `A - Ann H. S. Nicholson `
Thanks, Doug.
Thanks, guys. I think we'll end the call now. We have a few announcements first. As Wendell said,
our annual investor meeting is on Friday, February 5th at Cipriani Wall Street in New York City. You
can register for the event on our website. Wendell, Tony, Jeff and our business leaders will be
present. And you'll have a hands-on opportunity to step into the glass age with Corning. We'll be
sharing our very popular exhibits from the recent Consumer Electronics Show. We'll also be at the
Goldman Sachs Conference on February 9th in San Francisco, and Morgan Stanley on March 1st
also in San Francisco.
Thank you all for joining us today. A playback of the call is available beginning at 11:00 a.m. and will
run until 5:00 p.m. on Tuesday, February 9th. The phone number is 800-475-6701 and the access
code is 382853. The audio cast is available also on our website during that time.
Lois, that concludes our call. Please disconnect all lines.
Operator
Thank you. And ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference for today. Thank you
for using AT&T Executive Teleconference. You may now disconnect.
A - Ann H. S. Nicholson `
Thank you very much.
Operator
You're welcome.