Q4 2016 Earnings Call

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Corning, Incorporated Quarter Four 2016 Earnings
Results.
It's my pleasure to turn the call over to Ann Nicholson, Division Vice President of Investor
Relations. Please go ahead.
`Ann H. S. Nicholson, Division Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, John, and good morning. Welcome to Corning's fourth quarter conference call. With
me today are Wendell Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Tony Tripeny, Senior Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer; and Jeff Evenson, Senior Vice President and Chief Strategy
Officer.
Before we begin our formal comments, I'd like to remind you that today's remarks contain
forward-looking statements that fall within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995. These remarks involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could
cause actual results to differ materially. These factors are detailed in the company's financial
reports.
You should also note that we will be discussing our results using core performance measures.
Unless we specifically indicate, our comments relate to GAAP data. Our core performance
measures are non-GAAP measures used by management to analyze the business. A
reconciliation of core results to the comparable GAAP value can be found in the Investor
Relations section of our website at corning.com. Slides are posting live on our webcast to
accompany our formal comments, and we encourage you follow along. They will also be available
on our website for downloading.
Now, I'll turn the call over to Wendell.
`Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `Thank you, Ann. Good morning, everyone. Early last year, we told you that we expected our
momentum to build steadily throughout 2016 and it did. As we reported this morning, we finished
the year with a very strong fourth quarter with sales up 6%, net income up 24% and EPS of $0.50
up 47% year-over-year. We see this momentum continuing and anticipate year-over-year sales,
net income and EPS growth in the first quarter.
Tony will cover our financial performance and outlook in greater detail in just a few minutes.
These core operating results and our progress on key value creation initiatives continue to
reinforce our confidence in the Strategy and Capital Allocation framework that we introduced in
October of 2015. The framework outlines our leadership priorities and articulates the
opportunities we see across our businesses. We designed the framework to create significant
value for shareholders by focusing our portfolio and leveraging our financial strength.
As you know, under our framework, we target generating $26 billion to $30 billion in cash through
2019 and plan to return more than $12.5 billion to our shareholders through repurchases and
dividends. We have made great progress against that goal. Since October 2015 we have
returned a total of $6 billion by increasing the dividend 12.5% last February and by repurchases
that reduced outstanding shares by approximately 22%.
In 2016, we also realigned our interest in Dow Corning. That transaction further focused our
portfolio and unlocked tremendous value for our shareholders. In addition to cash distributions,
we plan to invest $10 billion to sustain our leadership and deliver growth over the long-term. We
are best in the world in three core technologies, four manufacturing and engineering platforms
and five market access platforms. We focus 80% of our resources on opportunities that use
existing capabilities in at least two of the three areas.
We're investing in research and development, capital expansion, and acquisitions to advance on
innovation initiatives, strengthen our leadership and low cost positions and ultimately outperform
our competitors. By pursuing this strategy, we believe that our likelihood of success increases, our
cost of innovation decreases, and we create higher and more sustainable competitive barriers.
Our focus on leadership also attracts some of the world's leading companies to our ecosystem
because they see how our unique expertise can help address some of their toughest challenges.
This is leading to improved performance and excellent momentum in our market access
platforms.
Let's look at a few examples. In our Optical Communications market access platform, our goal is
to add $2 billion in sales by 2020. Optical Communications is a fully evolved example of our
focused 3-4-5 portfolio. We began more than 40 years ago by leveraging our deep knowledge
of optical physics, glass science and vapor deposition to disrupt the telecommunications industry
with optical fiber. Over time, we increased our value add by leveraging ceramics, extrusion and
precision forming. Today, we are reaping the benefits of this unique combination of our
capabilities in segments like fiber-to-the-home and hyper-scale data centers.
During 2016, we improved our cost position and won customer commitments that support long-
term growth. In the fourth quarter, Optical Communications sales rose 11% year-over-year and we
expect growth in this business to accelerate in 2017. In our Automotive market access platform,
we are building on our existing environmental business with the addition of a significant new
business for gas particulate filters or GPFs, and a Gorilla-sized automotive glass business.
Consistent with OEM announcements, we believe that GPFs will be the preferred approach to
meet new regulations for particulate emissions from gasoline direct injection engines. GDIengines offer both higher performance and better fuel economy and as a result, have grown to
about a quarter of passenger car sales worldwide with units growing in the high teens annually.
Platform awards began in 2016 and we have won the majority. In December, the European Union
agreed on its 6c regulations which introduced new real world emissions test starting in
September of 2017. All new cars will need to comply with the rules starting in September of 2018.
In December, China also finalized related regulations. We expect gas particulate filters to
become a significant business for Corning. GPF offer the potential to increase our sales
opportunity per vehicle by a factor of 3 to 4 with profitability similar to our current business.
In line with our commitment to invest $10 billion in growth opportunities, our investment in GPF is
ramping to support customer commitments. You'll see both cost on our P&L and capital
expenditures in the near-term and we'll start to see sales in the second half of the year.
In 2017, we also expect progress toward commercialization of Gorilla Glass for auto for both
vehicle exteriors and interiors. To tap this opportunity, we are reapplying our core technologies
and we're using our manufacturing assets to provide advantaged glass that can make cars
cleaner, safer and more connected. Our decades long relationships with auto manufacturers have
assisted in gaining collaboration on testing and development.
During 2016, we successfully formed the joint venture with Saint-Gobain, we've passed
government safety test and have been engaged in many promising dialogs with customers. The
concept car we introduced at CES that use Gorilla Glass in a myriad of ways was frequently cited
as a top innovation at the show.
In our mobile consumer electronics market access platform, we seek to increase our revenue per
phone and win placement on new devices. Our goal is to double our sales despite flattening
smartphone unit growth. We're pursuing that goal in a number of ways. First, we continue to lead
the market with best in class products.
Gorilla Glass 5 is the best glass for job performance in the market today and we are seeing that
superior performance translate into a meaningful price premium that increases our revenue per
phone. Second, we are selling more glass per device. Given handset antenna requirements to
support increasing data rates and the desire for wireless charging, glass is becoming a preferred
material in more places on phones. Also, we have launched a glass specifically designed for
screen protectors for those who want added protection on their device.
Third, we are enabling more value per device by adding functionality, which opens up new device
categories. For example, our Vibrant product enables photo realistic images on hand held and
notebooks while Gorilla Glass SR+ offers outstanding scratch performance on wearables such as
the Gear 3 from Samsung.
Fourth, we can add sales by focusing on markets where we can gain share. In all cases, our close
relationships with our customers enable us to work jointly with them on compelling new mobile
consumer products.
In summary, we believe the strategic and financial benefits of Corning's cohesive and focused
portfolio are becoming even more apparent as we enter the second year under our Framework.
Let me turn the call over to Tony for a review of our results and details on our outlook for 2017.
Tony?
`R. Tony Tripeny, Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President `Thank you, Wendell, and good morning. As we noted in today's release, our fourth quarter core
results reflect the sequential and year-over-year improvement we expected and we are very
pleased with our strong operating performance. Net income and earnings were both up
significantly. Looking ahead, we see year-over-year growth in the first quarter in sales, net income
and EPS.
Before I get into the details of our performance and results, I wanted to briefly note that the
primary difference between our GAAP and core results for the fourth quarter is again a non-cash
mark-to-market adjustment. As we've discussed previously, GAAP accounting requires earnings
translation hedge contracts settling in future periods to be marked to market and recorded at
their current value in the current quarter even though those contracts will not be settled in the
current quarter. During the fourth quarter, the yen weakened, which resulted in a GAAP gain of $1.1
billion when we marked the contracts to market as required by GAAP. To be clear, this mark-to-
market accounting has no impact on our cash flow.
We remain very pleased with the results of our hedging program and the economic certainty it
delivers. Since its inception, we have received cash totaling $1.3 billion under our hedge contracts.
These proceeds offset much of the yen-related decline in display's earnings. Hedging our
earnings and cash flow through 2022 substantially mitigates risk from a weakening yen. For
investors who have additional questions on the mechanics of these contracts, please refer to the
tutorial on FX hedge accounting on the Digital Media Disclosures section of our Investor Relations
website. And as always, Ann and her team are available after the call.
Note that for the full year, marking those contracts to market resulted in a non-cash loss of $409
million. The more significant difference between GAAP and core results for the full year was the
$2.7 billion benefit from the strategic realignment of Dow Corning that was completed in the
second quarter. As Wendell noted, this transaction provided tremendous value for our
shareholders.
Turning to fourth quarter core results, sales grew 6% year-over-year and net income was $534
million, up 24% year-over-year. Adjusting for the former Dow Corning silicones business equity
earnings, which no longer contribute to our results, net income grew 36% year-over-year. Fourth
quarter EPS was $0.50, up 47%. These positive year-over-year results were primarily due to rapid
adoption of Gorilla Glass 5 and record Gorilla Glass volume, which produced higher sales and a
profit boost from its premium price, sales growth and higher profitability in Optical
Communications, and LCD glass volume growth and moderate pricing.
We delivered a 43% gross margin, as expected, which was up 140 basis points from last year.
SG&A was 14% of sales at $350 million. RD&E was 7% of sales at $173 million, benefiting from the
proceeds of a joint development agreement with a display customer. Total gross equity earnings
were $112 million, driven primarily by our equity earnings from Hemlock, which is seasonally
strongest in Q4. Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 17%.
Turning briefly to the balance sheet, adjusted operating cash flow for the year was $2.75 billion
and we ended the year with $5.3 billion of cash, approximately 40% of which is in the U.S.
Now, let's look at the detailed segment results and the outlook for each business, beginning with
Display Technologies. The fourth quarter display market and our results were strong and in line
with guidance. Sales were $904 million and net income was $276 million. Industry dynamics played
out as we said they would in October. The fourth quarter is the strongest season at retail. Based
on preliminary data, TV retail area growth year-over-year was robust, particularly in North America
and China. Our customers, the panel makers, kept their utilizations high to meet this demand.Our fourth quarter glass volume tracked with the market and was up low-teens year-over-year.
Sequentially, our volume was down slightly. Supply chain inventory exited the year at a healthy
level and panel makers' inventories remained lean. Fourth quarter LCD glass price declined
moderately sequentially, in fact, more moderately than Q3.
For the full year, glass demand grew in the mid single digits. As we predicted, growth was driven
primarily by average TV screen size, which grew more than 1.5 inches. Our volume for the full year
grew mid-single digits, in line with the glass market.
Now, looking into 2017, we expect the retail market, as measured in square feet of glass, to be
up mid-single digits, driven primarily by demand for larger screen size TVs. Let me walk you
through the details.
First, TV units at retail are expected to be flat or possibly up 1%. This has a small contribution to
glass market area growth. Second, TV screen size should grow about 1.5 inches consistent with
the trend of the last three years. This will contribute 4% to 5% to end market glass area growth in
2017. Third, we think IT will be flat, with larger screen sizes offset by lower units. We do not expect
IT and other smaller form factors to contribute to glass market growth. And fourth, the value
chain enters the year with a healthy inventory levels and we think inventory will again be healthy at
year-end 2017, expanding during the first half to prepare for a seasonally strong second half
when inventory will contract.
Taken together, we expect our demand to be up mid-single digits in 2017, in line with the overall
market. Specifically for the first quarter, we expect the glass market and our volume to be up
mid-teens over last year's first quarter. Now, this is down mid-single digit sequentially driven by
two fewer production days in the quarter and a reduction in panel maker capacity. As context, late
in Q4, Korean panel makers began to take down some lines to convert the flexible OLED
manufacturing for smartphones.
New fabs are coming online over the course of 2017, therefore panel capacity will increase
throughout the year. When one panel maker reduces producing in one fab, other panel makers
will need to produce more to meet retail demand.
We expect to maintain our worldwide share position due to our broad and diversified customer
base. We believe the full year 2017 glass price declines will be more moderate than 2016. In fact,
we may see the smallest declines in the last five years as the profitability of our competitors
remains low and supply demand remains in balance. At this point we already have more than
90% of our 2017 volume under contract.
For Q1, we expect the sequential LCD glass price guidelines also to be moderate and very similar
to the decline in the first quarter of 2016, which was the best for a first quarter in the past five
years. Keep in mind, Q1 is typically the quarter with the largest decline for the year as annual
supply agreements are finalized.
Let's move to Optical Communications where we are very pleased with the results as fourth
quarter sales rose 11% and NPAT rose 85% over last year. Increased sales of our solution products
and improved manufacturing performance contributed to the higher year-over-year sales and
profitability. North America carrier network business provided the fourth quarter growth highlight
as demand for our fiber-to-the-home solutions remained strong.
Turning to 2017. We are preparing to leverage the strong opportunities we see within the existing
telecom market. These include, fiber market demand exceeding market supply, key industry
leaders in telecom investing in optical solutions, particularly as they look to the next generationsof network capabilities, and finally, industry consolidations that favor some of our strong business
partners. These are organizations that have turned to Corning's Optical Communications
business many times for helping solving their cost and network capacity challenges.
As a result, we expect low-teens growth for full year 2017 sales. The increase will largely be the
result of a continuation of the growth trends we saw in the second half of 2016. In the first
quarter, we expect year-over-year growth of at least 25%. As a reminder, a software
implementation issue constrained sales in the first half of 2016.
In Environmental, fourth quarter sales were down slightly, in line with our expectations. For this
business, it's a tale of two end markets in very different places. The light-duty automotive market
grew mid-single digits for the year. Our auto sales were a record, up 11% for the year driven by
winning additional business. The heavy-duty diesel market is in a different place, particularly in
North America where truck builds were down 30% year-on-year and our sales were down.
Net income for the fourth quarter declined in line with our expectations. For the first quarter, we
expect to report sales consistent to down slightly versus Q1 of last year. For 2017 overall, we
expect full year sales to be consistent to up slightly from 2016. We expect continued sales growth
in the auto market and lower heavy-duty volume.
In 2017, we are making select capacity and engineering investments for the new GPF business to
prepare us to support customer commitments and you will see both cost on our P&L and capital
expenditures in the near-term. As we've mentioned, we are excited about the GPF platform wins
we have secured and expect sales to begin during the second half of the year.
Let's move to Specialty Materials where we were very pleased with the performance. Fourth
quarter sales rose 22% over last year, ahead of our expectations, led by record Gorilla Glass
volume. Net income was up 48% year-over-year. During the quarter, we saw rapid adoption of
Gorilla Glass 5 as OEMs used it on more devices, a testament to our market leadership.
As Wendell noted, our innovative products also can command a premium price. We began to feel
the benefit of Gorilla Glass 5 pricing in the fourth quarter and expect it to positively impact our
financial performance in 2017.
Our growth prospects remain strong in this market. The newly introduced Gorilla Glass 5 and
Gorilla Glass SR+ provide added value for consumers in terms of durability and we're working on
even more innovations to increase our sales in the mobile consumer electronics market.
In the first quarter, we're expecting Specialty Material sales to grow in the high-teens year-over-
year as our OEM customers continue to use Gorilla Glass on more devices. Keep in mind, the
supply chain in this market is driven by the timing of new product launches not calendar years.
We are highly confident that our Specialty Materials business will grow in 2017. The only question
is how big that growth will be, which will depend on the timing and extent of customers deploying
Gorilla Glass 5 and other Corning innovations. We will certainly keep you posted as the year
progresses.
In Life Sciences, fourth quarter sales were up year-over-year and net income growth outpaced
that of sales. For full year 2017 and the first quarter, we expect low-single digit growth year-over-
year ahead of forecasted market growth rates. As for our innovation program in pharmaceutical
packaging, we continue to make progress and look forward to sharing milestones as we can.Now, let's turn to a few more details on our first quarter outlook. As Wendell noted, for the first
quarter we expect year-over-year growth in sales, net income and EPS. We expect our first
quarter gross margin will be in the range of 42% to 43% and SG&A and RD&E spending should
be approximately 14% and 9% of sales respectively. We expect other income, other expense to
be a net expense of approximately $40 million and we expect first quarter total gross equity
earnings to be approximately $15 million.
Those details should help you understand our view of the first quarter, but we wanted to provide
a few insights regarding the full year as well. First, we presently believe full year equity earnings
will be approximately $150 million, predominantly from Hemlock semiconductors. You may recall
that we were receiving Hemlock's equity earnings on a pre-tax basis since we closed the
realignment of Dow Corning. We've put a schedule in the appendix to the slides for this call that
will walk you through the comparison.
Further, we expect our effective tax rate for full year 2017 and the first quarter will be
approximately 17% to 18%. Now, recall from our Strategy and Capital Allocation Framework that
we plan on investing $10 billion from 2016 to 2019 in growth and sustained leadership which
included capital spending. We said the pace of CapEx will be dependent on customer demand.
We anticipate investing a total of about $1.5 billion in 2017, which is up from 2016. This is driven by
expansions related to four growth opportunities in our market access platforms.
First, to support the double digit growth of Optical Communications. Second, to support the
success of our innovations in mobile consumer electronics. Third, to continue work on the Gen
10.5 glass manufacturing facility adjacent to BOE in display. You may recall this project exceeds
our target of obtaining $2 of every $3 from others when we invest in new melting capacity. And
fourth, to add capacity for the new gas particulate filter business in automotive.
Now finally, I wanted to comment on our plans to return at least $12.5 billion to shareholders
under our Strategy and Capital Allocation Framework. Through year end 2016 essentially the first
year under the Framework, we returned $6 billion. In February 2016, the board increased the cash
dividend by 12.5%. Our repurchase activity included $2.5 billion spent on repurchases to offset the
EPS impact from the loss of the silicones equity earnings from Dow Corning.
In 2017, as we did in 2016, we plan to continue repurchasing opportunistically reflecting our view
that Corning remains undervalued. For your modeling purposes, we anticipate spending
approximately $2 billion over the course of the year for repurchases or roughly what we spent in
2016, excluding the spending to offset the loss of the silicones equity earnings. Of course, the
timing and amount of repurchase activities always depends on a variety of factors.
In addition, we expect the board to approve an increase of at least 10% per share in the annual
dividend rate in line with the Framework.
Let me close by saying that we are very pleased with the strong fourth quarter results and our
positive momentum coming into 2017. Overall, we feel very good about our progress against the
Framework and the rich set of opportunities ahead of us.
With that, let's move to Q&A. Ann?
`Ann H. S. Nicholson, Division Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Tony. Operator, we'll now open the line for questions.
Q&AOperator
Certainly. And first from the line of `Joseph Wolf, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. of Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `Joseph Wolf, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Thank you.
A - `Ann H. S. Nicholson, Division Vice President, Investor Relations `
Sounds like we lost him, John.
Operator
Hello? Go ahead, Mr. Wolf, do you have a question?
Q - `Joseph Wolf, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Yes. Can you guys hear me now?
A - `Ann H. S. Nicholson, Division Vice President, Investor Relations `
Yeah.
Q - `Joseph Wolf, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Sorry about that. So, when does the car from CES go on sale? But more seriously, if we look into
2017, you gave a good overview of the display market, but I was hoping you could give us a little
bit more color on the OLED market in terms of both this large TV size and the smaller sized
handsets. There was a lot of OLED discussion at CES, and the starting price point on one of their
new TVs from LG actually doesn't seem to be that high for market adoption. So, if you could just
review for us your view on OLED and Corning's position in these new developments?
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
With regards to OLEDs, we continue to believe that OLEDs will not be a factor in large sized TV
of any significance, mainly because of their cost premium and that the value that they create in
performance is not large enough versus an ever-improving LCD technology. We do, however,
believe that the most compelling use of OLED technology is in the conformable displays for small
form factors, especially smartphones. Although this is a relatively small part of the overall glass
market, something less than 3%, the adoption of these type of displays will actually be a revenue
enhancer for Corning because we developed a very special glass to be used as the substrate for
those polyamide (34:39) displays so our share is very high. As well as the glass utilization for one
of these flexible OLEDs really is approximately the same as a aSi LCD today. And we'll expect
that to improve over time, but that's where it's starting. So overall as we look at it from Corning's
perspective of where we see OLED getting adopted ought to be a small but positive revenue
event.
Q - `Joseph Wolf, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Thank you.
Operator
Our next question is from `Jess Lubert, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC from Wells Fargo Securities. Please go ahead.Q - `Jess Lubert, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my question and congrats on a nice quarter. Two questions. First for
Wendell, you met with Trump yesterday, so I was hoping you could help us understand the key
takeaways from Corning, to what extent fiber might fall under any infrastructure plans and how
the border tax adjustment under Trump vs. Ryan are different, if one or the other is more
advantageous to Corning.
And then a question on the optical business. I was hoping to understand how much of the Q4
strength was a function of business that slipped from last quarter coming back, and then it looks
like you're expecting the business to see a nice acceleration this year, so I was hoping you could
help us understand how that breaks down across carrier, data center, and to what extent that's a
function of market acceleration versus improved execution following some of the difficulties we
saw in 2016?
A - `R. Tony Tripeny, Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President `
Sure, let me start on the optical question. We definitely had good growth in the fourth quarter. It
was higher than what we expected. We did see the data center demand pick up in the fourth
quarter. It was higher than Q3 and it was also higher than last year. I think what's important to
remember about data center demand is it will be lumpy because of the project nature of the
business, but over time we definitely expect this to be a strong driver of growth. And as we look
out into next year, for a full year we think our growth will be in the mid-teens. A lot of that of
course driven by fiber-to-the-home and carriers, but we do expect some growth in the
hyperscale data – enterprise in general including hyperscale data centers.
Now for the first quarter, we said the growth would be greater than 25%. I think you can think
about that, roughly half of that coming from the issues we had last year and half of it being the
strong market that we have because overall, we think, the market in the mid-teens gives you a
sense that – or our growth in the mid-teens gives you a sense that the market we expect to grow
greater than 10%.
Q - `Jess Lubert, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
And Tony, are you supply-constrained at all in the fiber business at the moment?
A - `R. Tony Tripeny, Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President `
Yeah. I mean, I think that right now fiber supply is very tight.
Q - `Jess Lubert, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
And then Wendell?
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
The purpose of the visit with Trump was – is that his administration has formed a small group of
leading manufacturing executives in the U.S. for him to be able to listen to ideas and exchange
ideas on how to improve manufacturing in the U.S., and more specifically how to significantly
increase manufacturing employment in the U.S. Given that, the actual dialog is confidential, at
least from our side, and it is up to the President to share what it is he sought to communicate to
us and what he gained from that communication.All right. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question is from Rod Hall with JPMorgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `Rod B. Hall, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Hey guys. Thanks for taking my questions. I've got a couple, I guess, for you. I wanted to follow
up, Tony, on your comment on hyperscale and try to get some idea of what the trajectory looks
like through the year. Do you expect acceleration in the second half? Do you think it's just
constant growth all the way through the year? Can you give us any color on how you expect that
to go? And whether – I think, you're alluding to Q1 bouncing back, but I think when we exited Q3
you guys had thought that it might take until Q2, so is that a little bit earlier? So just trying to get a
feeling on that.
Wendell, I wanted to go back to not really the Trump meeting content, but just onshore
manufacturing. I know you guys have capacity here. Could you talk a little bit about your flexibility
in manufacturing location? Do you feel like you've got enough capacity onshore if you needed to
start doing more here, and just give us any color on what sort of flexibility you feel like you've got
there?
And then the last thing I wanted to ask about was just the glass demand growth. You guys are
talking about mid-single digits. I think most of the deviation from our model is the IT expectations.
Why you expect those numbers to be potentially down? A lot of the PC manufacturers and so on
are thinking maybe there's some growth this year. So just curious about your expectations versus
what I'm hearing back from manufacturers? Thank you.
A - `R. Tony Tripeny, Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President `
Why don't I start with the telecom question, Rod. I think from an overall standpoint, we did see
the growth in the fourth quarter and that was on a year-over-year basis also versus Q3. But I think
one thing that we learned in the process of talking about hyper scale growth is because of the
lumpy nature of it and the timing, it doesn't makes sense to think about it on a quarter in, quarter
out basis. I think it's more important to think about it on an annual basis and it's clearly part of our
mid-teens or low-teens growth that we expect in 2017.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
As far as our ability to onshore flexibility of our supply, today only around 20% to 25% of our
revenue is in the U.S., but 35% or more of our people are in the U.S. So, we're set up
fundamentally as a pretty strong exporter from the U.S. That being said, if you – and our
fundamental philosophy is that we make in the countries where our customers are, and this has
always been our philosophy, we think it is just good business practice to be close to your
customers as well as responsible business practice. Really only exception of that is to the U.S.
where we are a strong exporter from this country of product, and we employ more people than
we sell here.
So that being said, if we see some significant onshoring of our customers' production capability,
we do have the capability to flexibly react to that in really all of our businesses. So, if that does
become a trend, I think that would be fabulous for the country and it would be really good for us.
A - `R. Tony Tripeny, Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President `And then, Rod, on your last question on IT and screen sizes, I mean, I think at the end of the day
we don't expect it to have a big impact on the market. We agree, I think, IT is stronger than it has
been over the last couple of years, but we still think that the units themselves relatively flat,
screen size relatively flat, so we just don't see it as a big contributor. Of course, we could be
wrong about that. It may be a little bit of a positive contributor, but I think we still would end up in
that range of mid-single digits in terms of the glass market.
Q - `Rod B. Hall, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Okay. Great. Thank you, guys.
Operator
And next we'll go to `Steven Fox, Analyst, Cross Research LLC with Cross Research. Please go ahead.
Q - `Steven Fox, Analyst, Cross Research LLC `
Thanks, good morning. I was wondering if you could dig down or help us a little bit on next year's
– or this year's Gorilla Glass outlook. First off, could you give us a sense for how you exited the
year in terms of your mix of Gorilla Glass 5? And then secondly, in terms of just the Gorilla Glass
business, you mentioned a couple of times now other Corning innovations that could help
Specialty Materials. Can you give us some clues as to sort of what kind of track that could be on,
whether it's the next generation of Gorilla Glass or something totally different that we haven't
heard about yet? And then I had a quick follow-up. Thanks.
A - `R. Tony Tripeny, Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President `
Clearly, Gorilla Glass 5 adoption was strong in the fourth quarter. I'm not going to give you a
percentage of what it was, but it was strong in the fourth quarter and we expect it to continue to
accelerate as we go into 2017. And that's positive, both in terms of the volume itself and the
premium price. And that premium price clearly had a positive impact on our profitability in Q4 and
it will continue to have an impact on our profitability in 2017.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
To the second part of your question that really the core of it comes to what we said is we expect
incredibly strong growth in quarter one and that we expect growth for the overall year, but we're
not yet comfortable saying how much. And so, you're asking really for some of the levers as you
take a look at that. I think it's a really good question. What this comes down to is how much of our
glass gets utilized per phone and how much of our innovations get utilized per phone. And this
really depends on two things; how does a customer choose to use our innovations in their
designs as well as how do our innovations perform relative to the requirements for that use case.
And it's just a little too early for us to be certain how those decisions and launch dates will be
impacting our revenues.
Over the sweep of time, we're very confident in our ability to see strong growth in Gorilla. In any
given quarter or any given year, what the actual product launch is and then the supply chain that is
associated with that can make the actual predictability problematic from too early in the year. This
will become quite obvious, what is actually going to happen to us in the relatively near-term and
we'll provide clearer and better guidance for you as our understanding of the situation clarifies.
Q - `Steven Fox, Analyst, Cross Research LLC `Great, that's really helpful. I appreciate that color. And then just a quick clarification. When you
guys are talking about tight fiber, you're specifically talking about the raw fiber production? And
when you say you're investing, are you investing in new fiber towers or just to you have towers
production that's mothballed that you're bringing online? Could you just be a little bit more
specific on the investment there? Thank you very much.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
At this point in time, we find ourselves in a situation where customers are requesting more of all
of our products than we currently have the manufacturing platform in place to support over the
long-term. So, what you can expect from us in this year, as you heard Tony's guidance, is you can
expect us to have some capital expansions that we'll talk about in more detail at the appropriate
time in Optical Communications that we're going to need to put in place to support very strong
customer commitments for long-term acceleration in our revenue in that business. So, more to
come as those agreements come into place and as our actual plans of our manufacturing
footprint firm up.
Q - `Steven Fox, Analyst, Cross Research LLC `
Great, thank you very much.
Operator
Our next question is from `Patrick Newton, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. with Stifel. Please go ahead.
Q - `Patrick Newton, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Yeah, good morning, Wendell, Tony, and Jeff. Thanks for taking my questions. I guess just digging
a little bit more into the optical side, Tony, is there any way you can help us understand what the
growth rate for the year would be if you normalized for acquisitions and then for the snapback
from manufacturing? And then going a little bit more, you talked, I believe, about fiber-to-the-
home being a little bit stronger than perhaps hyperscale. Is there any geographic spread you
could give us from where you're seeing outside strength?
A - `R. Tony Tripeny, Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President `
Sure. I think on the overall growth standpoint, it was always hard for us to know exactly the impact
of the software implementation issue that we had but, I think, if you were to adjust for that, you'd
still see growth in the double-digits. And that same applies to acquisitions. I mean, the bottom
line here is that we think that our position in this market and where we play in this market and the
part of the market that is most important to us is growing very rapidly, and we think it's double-
digit growth. In terms of fiber-to-the-home, clearly, North America is a place where we see lots of
fiber-to-the-home growth.
Q - `Patrick Newton, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Great. And then, I think, looking at the biggest delta to your earnings, relative to my estimate,
came from R&D. You talked about benefiting from a joint development payment. Just given the
magnitude of the down tick relative to expectations, could you help quantify that payment and
maybe walk us through any information you can provide on the payment?
A - `R. Tony Tripeny, Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President `The payment was with a customer, and I'm not going to disclose what development work we
were doing with that customer and I'm also not going to disclose how much it is but, I think, we
think relative to what your expectations were and the difference, that explains most of it.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. One of the things that, I think, you're going to continue to see as part of our focused
portfolio and our engagements with our customers, given our capability set is that sometimes
when they want us to solve an especially challenging problem and that they want some form of
relatively unique access on an accelerated basis to our capabilities, we're going to ask them to
share in that cost up front. And so you just saw that playing out in a relatively significant way in the
quarter. This has become a more standard practice for us. As it becomes more standard, I think it
will be easier to model, but the core of it has to do with what we've been doing with our focused
portfolio and our market access platforms.
Q - `Patrick Newton, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Thanks for the details, and Wendell you just brought up the focused portfolio again and if I think
about your Life Sciences business, it wasn't really spoken about much in your prepared remarks
you've had, you've teased some material progress coming from that business for a couple of
years now, but the growth really since your Discovery Labware acquisition has been very low, so
how does this business fit with your 3-4-5 core strategy?
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I think, there's two elements to it. First of all, we continue to do better than all of our
competition in that life science vessel market. So, one of the key requirements to remaining in
our portfolio is that management proves that being part of our portfolio allows us to lead that
industry. So that part, I think that business unit and the way in which we've interacted with our
capability set has proven to be quite successful.
The second part though is to remain in our portfolio basically we have to be able to either use
the market access platform that you have, or to use your asset and capability set to support our
other capabilities or our other business units. That moment is still ahead of us in Life Sciences. It
needs to do both, and we are hoping to see strong progress on that in this year. You've heard us
speak to what we're doing in a very vague way, to what we're doing in pharmaceutical packaging
and that uses that platform. I think if that is very successful, and we can basically re-use big hunks
of that market access platform in Life Sciences then we'll be delighted with this in our portfolio. If
not, we'll put that into our overall judgment of our portfolio as we do our normal reflection on
what is the best way to maximize the value for our shareholders over the long-term.
Q - `Patrick Newton, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Thank you for the details. Thanks for taking my questions. Good luck.
Operator
Our next question is from `Vijay Bhagavath, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
Q - `Vijay Bhagavath, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Yeah. Thanks. Hi, Wendell, Tony. Question is on the auto glass business. Do you plan on reporting
any additional metrics going forward to help us better track and model progress in auto glass?
We see auto glass as a major growth opportunity for the company. And then also when could wesee Gorilla Glass going down market into mainstream cars? Would it be next year? And then also
thoughts on carving out auto glass as a separate business unit, given its own culture and then its
own sales and marketing R&D to help scale the business? Thanks.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
So to the core of your question is when will key metrics be available to track our progress in the
penetration into automotive glazing and interiors so that this actually can become a predictable
growth driver for Corning. And then the second part of your question that I heard is, if we break it
into a different business unit.
So, let's take the second part first. We plan on reusing our automotive market access platform to
service this market, and basically to repurpose elements of our manufacturing and engineering
platform that are already in place as part of our portfolio to serve this market. We'll develop
market specialists as well. But one of the things that reduces the cost of this innovation and
increases the probability of success is that ability to use our unique capability set to basically
attack a market with existing resources, augmented of course by specialists, right? And that's the
way we're going to approach it.
As to the metrics, I think it's too early for us to lay out that as you look at these metrics this will
become in this way a predictable growth driver. I think, we need more penetration before we get
to the point of the S curve that we'll be able to segment the market in some useful way for you,
so that we give you more signal as opposed to noise. What we look at internally is something
very simple. It's winning customer platforms. To-date, those platforms have been more in the
high end of vehicles, where they're trying to get the highest performance and are less cost
sensitive. I think if it stays in that piece of the market, this will be a good, but relatively small
revenue opportunity. If indeed we can attack an everyday car platform, as you are asking, this will
become a very large growth platform for us. It's just too early to tell when that's going to happen.
Do I think it's going to happen? Yes, sir. Do I know it's going to happen? Not yet, sir.
Q - `Vijay Bhagavath, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Perfect. I can't wait to drive a car with Gorilla Glass. Thanks.
Operator
Our next question is from `Doug Clark, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. with Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.
Q - `Doug Clark, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Great, thanks for grabbing my question in here, a two-parter. First one is on the price declines in
the display business. I think, Tony, you mentioned that 90% of volumes are contracted for all of
2017. Is that percentage higher than years in the past? And secondly, related to that, the
moderation versus 2016, does this imply a less than 10% year-over-year price decline for the full
year?
And then my second part question is also on the display business, but more so on the panel
maker kind of capacity fluctuations between LCD and OLED. It sounds like that's already factored
into first quarter guidance and your expectation is that that kind of alleviates by the second half of
the year. Is that the correct cadence that we should expect, to see kind of volumes pick back up
to the extent that there's any depressant right now?
A - `R. Tony Tripeny, Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President `So, the answer to your second question is, correct. That is the way that we expect it to play out. In
terms of price declines and the amount of volume we have under contract, usually as we enter
into the year we have a high percentage under contract. So – I mean, 90%, I think was important
for everybody to remember that that's the way this business works. And then relative to price
declines, more moderate, somewhere in the 10% range is how that would work out.
Q - `Doug Clark, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Okay. That's helpful. And then one quick follow-up additionally is on FX. I'm wondering if you can
provide either an update on expected constant currency rate for 2018 or when we should look
out for that detail?
A - `R. Tony Tripeny, Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President `
I think that when we entered into our exchange contracts originally in 2014, we said they would be
for three years and that we would stay at a constant rate of ¥99. We have hedged about 70% of
our exposure from 2016 to 2022 at about a ¥106 rate, but we're not ready to talk about the
constant rate for 2018 yet, in part because we're looking at are there other opportunities for us
to hedge and we're also looking at different ways that we might hedge as opposed to the FX
contracts that we're using today.
So I think when we made the FX rate change previously we did it towards the end of the year and
I think that's probably the timing when you'd expect us to talk about it again or maybe even at the
beginning of 2018.
Q - `Doug Clark, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Great, thanks a lot.
A - `Ann H. S. Nicholson, Division Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Doug. And John, I'm afraid we're out of time for questions. Wendell, any closing
comments?
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Let me just close out the call by reiterating that we're very pleased with the progress on our
Strategy and Capital Allocation Framework since we announced it. We believe we are creating
significant value for our shareholders and we look forward to updating you on our Framework
progress and results throughout 2017. Thanks to everyone for listening.
A - `Ann H. S. Nicholson, Division Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Wendell, and thank you all for joining us today. Before I close, I wanted to let everyone
know that today's slide deck has an appendix that recaps some of the full year data that you
might find useful.
Looking out to next month, we'll be meeting with investors at the Goldman Sachs Technology and
Internet Conference on February 14 and the Morgan Stanley TMT Conference on February 28.
Please let us know if you'll be attending. Our Annual Investor Day this year is scheduled for June
16 in New York City. We'll be sending out more details in the coming weeks.
And finally, a replay of today's call will be available on our site for one year starting later this
morning. There's also a telephone replay available for the next two weeks and details are intoday's news release. Once again, thank you all for joining us. John, that concludes our call. Please
disconnect all lines.