Q4 2017 Earnings Call

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Corning Incorporated Quarter
Four 2017 Earnings Results. It's my pleasure to turn the call over to Ann Nicholson, Division Vice
President of Investor Relations.
`Ann H. S. Nicholson, Division Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you John and good morning. Welcome to Corning's year-end 2017 conference call. With
me today are Wendell Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Jeff Evenson, Senior
Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer. Because of a family emergency Tony Tripeny, Senior
People and Chief Financial Officer is not unaligned today but he looks forward to talking with
investors throughout the quarter and we're sending his family our regards.
So, joining us today are Ed Schlesinger, Vice President and Corporate Controller and Stephan
Becker, Vice President and Operations Controller. I'd like to remind you that today's remarks
contain forward-looking statements that fall within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. So statements involve risks and uncertainties and other factors that could
cause the actual results to differ materially. These factors are detailed in the company's financial
reports.
You should also note that we'll be discussing our results using core performance measures,
unless we specifically indicate our comments relate to GAAP data. Our core performance
measures are non-GAAP measures used by management to analyze the business. A
reconciliation of core results to the comparable GAAP value can be and found in the investor
relations section of our website at corning.com.
Supporting slides are being shown live on our webcast and we encourage you to follow along.
Will also be available on our website for downloading. Now I'll turn the call over to Wendell.`Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Ann and welcome everyone. This morning we reported a strong finish to an
outstanding year and we feel great about our progress and our prospects. Strong growth and
strong investment generated an $800 million sales increase for the year and set the stage for
additional growth. We exited the year running at full capacity in several of our businesses and with
committed customer demand that supports our current capacity expansion initiatives. We expect
to see the benefit of these initiatives in the second half of 2018 and beyond as production ramps.
2018 will be another year of strong growth and investment, consistent with our Strategy and
Capital Allocation Framework. All of our businesses contributed to the outstanding 2017 results,
highlighted by 18% year-over-year sales growth in Optical Communications, 25% growth in
Specialty Materials, 7% growth in Environmental and price declines in Display that were the best in
seven years.
As we've shared, the Strategy and Capital Allocation Framework outlines our leadership priorities.
And we continue to focus our portfolio and utilize our financial strength to extend our leadership,
drive our growth and reward our shareholders.
Under the Framework, we target generating $26 billion to $30 billion in cash through 2019. We
plan to return more than $12.5 billion to our shareholders through repurchases and dividends, and
invest $10 billion to extend our leadership and deliver growth across all of our market-access
platforms.
We've made great progress towards those goals since we announced the Framework in October
of 2015. Our cash generation is on target, and through the end of 2017 we returned $9 billion
through share repurchases and dividends. We've invested $4.5 billion under the Framework in
RD&E, capital expenditures and acquisitions. We're starting to see the returns already. As you can
see, in our most recent results, full-year sales increased 8%, EPS increased 11%. And we expect
these returns to accelerate.
We believe that these results illustrate the benefits of our Framework. We are best in the world in
three core technologies, four manufacturing and engineering platforms and five market-access
platforms. We focus 80% of our resources on opportunities that use capabilities in at least two of
these three categories.
We've stepped up our investments over the last six months to meet opportunities in front of us in
all of our market-access platforms. Significant portions of the investments are going towards
capacity expansions to meet committed demand. Currently, we have 23 projects underway
including construction of 11 new plants. These investments dampened our profitability in the
second half of 2017 and will do so again in the first half of 2018. But we'll really see the benefits of
those investments in sales and profitability in the back half. So we feel great about the year
ahead of us.
Now let me review progress in our market-access platforms starting with Optical
Communications. We're the world leader in passive Optical Communications and the only true
end-to-end supplier of integrated optical solutions. 2017 was another great year. We expanded
strategic relationships like the ones we've recently announced with Verizon and Saudi Telecom,
which supports our view of strong future growth.
We expanded our manufacturing capacity to support growing demand and initiated programs to
further expand capacity in 2018. During 2017, we acquired SpiderCloud to enhance our wireless
portfolio and announced an agreement to purchase 3M's Communications Markets Division. Weexpect that transaction to close later this year. It brings us a talented group of employees and
enhances our offerings in the rapidly growing fiber-to-the-home and optical solutions markets.
We expect to continue growing more than twice as fast as the communications infrastructure
market. Rapid adoption of optical solutions in more market segments, combined with the
strength and relevance of our technology and co-innovation approach, support our superior
growth.
We believe that the opportunities ahead of us are much greater than those that are behind us. To
capture these opportunities, we continue to invest in plants, innovations and market-access. We
expect 2018 growth to keep us solidly on pace to reach $5 billion in sales by 2020.
Now let's turn to Mobile Consumer Electronics where we are the world leader in glass for
smartphones, tablets and emerging categories like wearables and augmented reality devices.
Our goal is to double Mobile Consumer Electronics sales over the next several years. We made
significant progress toward that goal in 2017. Major milestones during the year included the 10th
anniversary of Corning Gorilla Glass, rapid adoption of Gorilla Glass 5 and Apple's commitment to
our future innovations through its American manufacturing initiative.
The fundamental properties of Gorilla Glass make it an ideal choice for smartphone enclosures.
Flagship models from Samsung and others now feature glass on the front and the back. Glass
backs double the area we sell per phone and also support new innovation opportunities like
fabric. We expect additional growth in 2018 as more devices adopt our latest innovations
including our next-generation of cover glass which we plan to introduce later this year.
Turning to our automotive market-access platform, our expertise focuses on helping customers
build cleaner, safer and more connected vehicles. Corning pioneered the substrate at the heart
of catalytic converters and is now leading the next wave of emissions control with our introduction
of gas-particulate filters. Most European and many Chinese OEMs have now awarded platforms
and we won the majority, reflecting our market leadership.
We had our first commercial sales in the second half of 2017 and we expect a sales ramp in 2018.
Once regulations are fully implemented in Europe next year, and China in the early 2020s, we
estimate the GPF opportunity will exceed $0.5 billion in sales for Corning.
Moving to Gorilla Glass for Auto, innovation trends continue to point toward a significant growth
opportunity. On the exteriors of cars, Gorilla Glass laminates are tougher and lighter than
conventional auto glass, plus the superior optical quality allows for larger and clearer head-up
displays.
For interiors, integrated and interactive displays are becoming a seamless part of the cabin end-
user experience. Corning's helping OEMs with this transition because Gorilla Glass provides an
advanced, durable, optical interface surface with tremendous economics. Earlier this month,
exhibits at CES provided impressive evidence for the increasing use and importance of glass in
cars. We believe that our solutions provide compelling value and we are investing to prepare for
the industry's transition to highly connected and autonomous vehicles which will use Gorilla Glass.
Call for collaboration from leading OEMs is increasing and we have already been awarded 35
platforms globally. We expect to make addition and significant progress during 2018.
In our Life Sciences Vessels platform, we're building a new and long-term multibillion-dollar
franchise. Last July we introduced Corning Valor Glass, our remarkable new pharmaceutical glass
packaging solution. Valor Glass dramatically reduces particle contamination, breaks and cracks,
while significantly increasing throughput. Valor helps protect patients and improve pharmaceuticalmanufacturing. The industry is excited about our innovation and announcement and we continue
to make strong progress, although it moves at a deliberate pace.
Recently, the Parenteral Drug Association hosted a two-day conference dedicated to glass
quality. Corning presented in a session focused on new developments and innovations to
pharmaceutical packaging. And we remain closely engaged with our development partners,
Merck and Pfizer, and are pleased with the progress we have seen with our customers over the
last quarter. And we've successfully completed multiple collaborative projects to support
customer adoption of Valor. We also continue to engage with the Food and Drug Administration,
which is committed to streamlining the introduction of new innovations so technologies like Valor
Glass can reach patients quickly.
In 2018 we plan to invest in high-volume manufacturing that will enable us to deliver commercial
volumes to our customers. You will hear more from us regarding the manufacturing site and
location in the coming months. We continue to believe Valor has the potential to power Corning's
growth for the next decade and beyond.
In Display, we remain the global leader. Our priority is to deliver stable returns and win in new
Display categories. We expect 2018 to be another year of strong progress for our Display
business. Our new plant in Hefei, China has started shipping the world's first Gen 10.5 glass. We
are the only manufacturer to have successfully scaled glass production to this size. Ramping our
new Gen 10.5 facility on a pace with BOE, our major customer will augment volume growth.
In addition, pricing has become consistently more favorable over the past three years. In June,
we stated that improvement to mid-single-digit declines was possible. We now believe this will
happen in 2018. Reaching mid-single digit annual pricing is a huge milestone toward our goal of
maintaining stable returns.
Finally, Iris Glass which adds a third piece of glass to LCD displays is gaining momentum. We are
excited about Lenovo's and Dell's new ultrathin monitors, which offer the world's brightest
monitors in a thin, narrow bezel package, uniquely enabled by Corning's Iris Glass.
I think it's pretty clear we're making terrific progress across all of our market-access platforms.
We are investing to capture these opportunities, and expect to maintain the 2017 momentum in
2018. We plan to deliver another strong year of sales and earnings growth and stay on track to
fully achieving our Strategy and Capital Allocation Framework goals.
Now let me turn the call over to Jeff for a review of our results, details on our outlook and
additional updates on our Framework.
`Jeffrey W. Evenson, Chief Strategy Officer & Senior Vice President `
Thank you, Wendell, and morning, everyone. Our 2017 results were outstanding. In 2018, we'll
continue investing to support our customers and extend our leadership. We expect core sales to
grow to approximately $11 billion or about 7% on a constant currency basis.
Before reviewing segment results I want to talk about two items affecting our GAAP results, FX
accounting and tax reform. As we've discussed before, GAAP accounting requires earnings
translation hedge contracts settling in future periods to be mark-to-market and recorded at
current value at the end of each quarter, even though those contracts will not be settled in the
current quarter. For us, this resulted in an after-tax GAAP gain of $1 million for the fourth quarter
and a loss of $247 million for the full year. To be clear, this mark-to-market accounting has no
impact on our cash flow.Our currency hedges protect us economically from foreign exchange rate fluctuations and
provides higher certainty for our earnings and cash flow, our ability to invest for growth and our
future shareholder distributions. We're very pleased with our hedging program and economic
certainty it delivers. We received $1.6 billion in cash under our hedge contracts over the last five
years.
Our non-GAAP or core results provide additional transparency into operations by using a fixed
currency rate, aligned with our yen and won translation hedges. And also by adjusting for other
items that do not reflect ongoing operations. For 2015 to 2017, our core reporting used a
constant currency rate of ¥99 to the U.S. dollar and KRW 1100 to the U.S. dollar.
For 2018 to 2020, we have established hedges for approximately 90% of our expected Display
earnings. We expect these hedges to result in an average rate of ¥107 to the dollar and we plan
to use that rate for our core reporting over the next three years. Additionally, we will use a
constant rate of KRW 1,175 to the dollar, which is closely aligned to our current won portfolio of
foreign currency hedges. Nearly all the analysts covering Corning are already publishing estimates
for 2018 and beyond at a yen exchange rate of approximately ¥107 to the dollar. For today's
discussion, I will present fourth quarter and full-year 2017 core results at the ¥99 rate. My
comments on our 2018 outlook will be based on ¥107 per dollar and 2017 results will be recast to
our new core rates for comparison. We've provided 2016 and 2017 results recast to the new core
rates in an 8-K, so you can update your models and compare our operating results on an apples-
to-apples basis.
Turning to taxes, our full-year and fourth quarter 2017 core results have been adjusted to exclude
$1.8 billion in non-cash items related to U.S. tax reform. The majority of the $1.8 billion is a one-
time total charge of approximately $1.2 billion on unremitted foreign earnings. The cash cost is
almost entirely offset by our foreign tax credit carryforwards. We've also revalued our deferred
tax assets and liabilities.
While we're still finalizing the impact of reform on our effective tax rate for 2018, we expect it to
increase to between 20% and 22%. In 2018, our projected tax rate will reflect the new lower U.S.
tax rate offset anti-base erosion provisions. The net impact does not fully replace the benefit of
our previously available foreign tax credit planning. Near term, tax reform provides greater
flexibility in accessing our non-U.S. cash and we have already benefited from that flexibility.
Longer-term, as we execute on our growth initiatives, and our U.S. income grows, we will further
benefit from the lower tax rate in United States. As a final note, our investment and shareholder
distribution targets in the 2016 to 2019 Strategy and Capital Allocation Framework are not
impacted by tax reform.
Now, let's look at our results and outlook. For the fourth quarter, core sales were up 7% year-
over-year and EPS was $0.49. Full-year sales rose 8% and EPS was up 11% to $1.72. Core earnings
were $1.8 billion, consistent with 2016. An apples-to-apples comparison that reflects the strategic
realignment of Dow Corning by excluding silicones equity earnings from the first half of 2016
shows that core earnings grew 5% year-over-year.
As Wendell mentioned, gross and operating margin dollars grew more slowly than sales in the
back half of 2017, primarily because of plant and very attractive growth investments. These
include capacity expansions for optical fiber and cable, our Gen 10.5 Hefei Display glass plant,
capacity for gas particulate filters, plus development for Gorilla Glass, Valor and a few other
projects that we're not quite ready to dive into publicly.Turning to the balance sheet, we ended the year with $4.3 billion of cash. With the new flexibility
created by U.S. tax reform, we brought $2 billion in cash back to the United States already this
month. Adjusted operating cash flow for the year was $2.6 billion and keeps us on track to meet
the goal of our four-year capital allocation plan.
Now let's look at detailed segment results and outlook beginning with Display Technologies.
Display's 2017 core sales were $3.4 billion and core earnings were $944 million. Fourth quarter
2017 volume was up slightly sequentially, exceeding our guidance and in line with the market.
Sequential LCD glass pricing decline were slightly better than quarter three and better-than-
expected. For the full year, our volume was up mid-single digits, in line with our expectations.
Pricing improved and reached single-digit year-over-year declines in both, quarter three and
quarter four.
Let's turn to 2018. We expect further pricing improvement with year-over-year declines reaching
mid-single digits. Reaching mid-single digit annual declines is an important milestone toward our
goal of stabilizing returns in Display, and it's occurring earlier than the view we communicated to
investors in June 2017.
Three factors drive our view of a more favorable pricing environment. First, we expect glass
supply to be balanced or even tight. Our Gen 10.5 plant supports the expected growth of large
sized TVs. It id collocated with and dedicated to our customer BOE. We paced and aligned
capacity in tandem with BOE to ensure our Gen 10.5 glass supply is balanced to demand.
We expect glass supply demand balance below Gen 10.5 to tighten further because demand
continues to grow in 2018, but public information indicates there is little capacity growth planned
in this segment by glassmakers. Second, our competitors continue to face profitability challenges
at current pricing levels. Therefore, we expect their price declines will slow further as they try to
remain profitable. Third, LCD glass manufacturing requires ongoing investment in current and
new capacity to support growth. To generate acceptable returns on investments, glass pricing will
need to improve even further.
We typically see the largest quarterly price change in the first quarter. In quarter one 2018, we
expect sequential glass price declines to again be moderate, and more favorable than first
quarter sequential price changes in recent years. In sum, pricing will be favorable in 2018.
Let's turn to volume. We expect LCD glass market volume to grow mid-single digits as television
screen size growth continues. We expect our volume to grow faster than the market as we ramp
production in tandem with BOE's Gen 10.5 demand in Hefei. For the first quarter of 2018, we
expect both the LCD glass market and our volumes to climb sequentially by low-single digits in
line with normal seasonality. First quarter volume will be up low-single digits on a year-over-year
basis.
We feel good about price and volume and gross margin should improve throughout the year.
Two factors will dampen Display's gross margin percentage in the first quarter of 2018. First, we
are starting up our Hefei facility. As always during a plant startup, fixed cost and staffing ramp
head of production. Second, we'll be taking advantage of the seasonally lighter volume in Display
and Gorilla to rebuild tanks and optimize the fleet with our latest technology. As you may recall, in
the third and fourth quarters of 2017, we ran a handful of tanks outside their optimal range to
meet strong demand. We'll be correcting this in the first half. The higher utilization at the Hefei
plant and the fleet optimization will improve productivity and gross margin, especially in the
second half of the year. In summary, we have essentially all of our 2018 volume under contract.We remain very pleased with the current dynamics in our Display business and our progress in
maintaining stable returns.
Let's move to Optical Communications. Full-year sales were $3.5 billion, up 18% and core earnings
were up 33%. Fourth quarter sales grew 13% over last year. Fourth quarter earnings declined
slightly as we invested to support growth in 2018 and beyond. In addition to new fiber and cable
capacity, we invested in building supply chain and new products for Saudi Telecom. Our first
significant sales occurred during the quarter and required some setup costs. We're honored to
support Saudi Telecom as it begins the largest network build in the history of the kingdom.
In the first quarter and for full-year 2018, we expect sales to be up about 10% year-over-year,
excluding any contribution from the pending acquisition of 3M's Communications Markets
Division. Key growth drivers include strong demand from carrier and enterprise customers that
will fill new capacity as we bring it online.
We expect profitability to improve through the course of the year as we ramp our plans to meet
committed customer demand. For your modeling purposes we expect the 3M transaction to
close in the middle of 2018. The transaction will add about $200 million in sales and be neutral to
EPS in 2018 due to integration costs. As previously announced, we expect it will be accretive in
2019 and beyond. Stepping back, we're excited about 2018's growth potential for Optical
Communications and pleased to have additional opportunities ahead of us.
Environmental Technologies' 2017 sales were $1.1 billion, up 7% driven by worldwide growth in the
auto market and from winning additional business which allowed us to grow faster than the
market. Fourth quarter sales grew 19% year-over-year with core earnings rising 33%. As
anticipated, the North American heavy-duty market improved in the second half of the year
driving 7% growth in our diesel sales for 2017. In addition, our gasoline particulate filter business
delivered its first commercial sales in the third quarter, as the initial phase of Euro 6 regulations
took effect in September 2017.
In the fourth quarter, we had additional sales and we won additional platforms. We have won the
majority of platforms awarded to date. 2017 core earnings were $139 million, as investments in
select capacity and engineering to support the ramp of our GPF business partially offset the
benefits of increasing sales. In the first quarter and for full-year 2018, we expect high-single-digit
sales growth driven by continued strength in auto sales, ongoing improvements in the heavy-duty
diesel market and from the GPF launch.
In Specialty Materials, 2017 sales rose 25% over last year and core earnings were up 32%. We're
clearly benefiting from the rapid adoption of Gorilla Glass 5 and the trend towards glass backs on
devices. We also made progress with our innovations in other areas including Gorilla Glass
emerging as the most widely used cover material on smart watches worldwide.
Fourth quarter sales increased 17% and core earnings were up 12% year-over-year. Sales
benefited from brands building aggressively to support their launch cycles. This demand pull-in is
the primary reason we expect first quarter 2018 sales to be down about 10% year-over-year.
Overall, we remain very pleased with our performance in Specialty Materials. We expect to grow
again for the full year 2018 following our strong 2017. The 2018 growth rate will depend on new
model launches and the adoption of our innovations. In the second half of 2018, we expect year-
over-year growth as customers launch their new products and as we announce new innovations
to meet customer needs in mobile consumer electronics, including the introduction of our next
generation of Gorilla Glass.In Life Sciences, 2017 sales were $879 million and core earnings were $80 million, with strong
fourth quarter sales, as we continue to outpace market growth. For full year 2018, we expect
sales to grow mid-single digits. First quarter sales should be up high-single digits year-over-year.
As a reminder, my comments on our 2018 outlook are based on the new ¥107 and KRW 1,175 core
rates. We're comparing to 2017 results recast to our new core rates. For 2018, all of our
businesses have positive momentum and we expect full-year sales of about $11 billion, up 7%. We
expect the full-year gross margin to exceed 41%, similar to 2017. The first quarter will be the low
point for the year. We expect gross margin to be about 40% of sales, consistent with 2017's
fourth quarter. In the second half of 2018, our investments, for example, in the Gen 10.5 facility,
gas particulate filter capacity, and new fiber and cable plant will exit the startup phase and result
in new sales. Quarterly gross margin should exceed 42% in the second half.
Annual operating expenses should remain consistent with last year as a percentage of sales. For
the full year, SG&A is expected to be about 14% of sales and RD&E about 8%. The slides we're
showing give you additional details for the first quarter and for the year.
In other items, we expect other income, other expense to remain at our fourth quarter 2017 run
rate, generating a net expense of approximately $200 million for the year, or about $45 million to
$55 million in Q1. Full-year 2018 total gross equity earnings are expected to be similar to 2017 at
approximately $200 million, predominantly from Hemlock Semiconductor, with first quarter at
about $25 million to $30 million, consistent with typical seasonality. As a reminder, our tax rate
should be between 20% and 22% for the year and for the first quarter.
In 2018, we expect to spend slightly more than $2 billion on capital expenditures with programs in
every market-access platform. How much more will depend on how quickly we ramp some of our
investments. We'll provide more information as the year progresses.
Stepping back, the fourth quarter marked the halfway point of our four-year Strategy and Capital
Allocation Framework and I'll conclude with a look at our accomplishments and our expectations.
In brief, our progress on all dimensions of the Framework has been excellent and we expect to
deliver on all of our goals. In the first two years of the Framework, our cash generation has been
on target. We have invested $4.5 billion in planned investments to grow and extend our
leadership and we have returned more than $9 billion to shareholders through share repurchases
and dividends. Over the next two years of the Framework, we plan to invest an additional $5.5
billion in our growth initiatives and we plan to continue repurchasing shares and paying dividends,
totaling at least $3.5 billion additional over the remainder of the program. We expect our board
to increase the dividend by at least 10% next week and at least 10% again in 2019.
Putting it all together, as we invest $10 billion to drive growth and extend our leadership, we are
rewarding our investors by returning more than $12.5 billion, which compounds the benefit of our
future growth for long-term shareholders. We are very pleased with our continued positive
momentum. We're focused on keeping that momentum heading into 2018. We remain on track to
deliver the goals of our Strategy and Capital Allocation Framework and are excited about the rich
set of opportunities ahead of us.
With that, let's move to Q&A. Ann?
`Ann H. S. Nicholson, Division Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Jeff. John, let's open the lines for questions. We have a lot of folks in the queue today
so we're hoping that you can keep it to one question so we can get to everybody.Q&A
Operator
Certainly. First, we go to the line of George Notter with Jefferies. Please go ahead.
Q - `George C. Notter, Analyst, Jefferies LLC `
Hi, guys. Thanks very much. I guess I wanted to dig into the Optical business a bit. You guys are
adding a lot of capacity here. I saw the announcement from the other day about the new cable
manufacturing facility. I guess the question here is, can you refresh us on the amount of new
capacity you're adding in that business? And then also the timing with which that capacity comes
online?
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, George. We're not giving exact guidance on how much capacity we're adding for obvious
competitive reasons. We launched on this latest round of capacity expansion really anchored by
the Verizon announcement and their commitment to $1 billion over the next few years. That,
together with a few other building blocks of key customer committed demand, had us really start
to expand our capacity footprint across all those products that they'll be requiring.
What you can expect on timing, really sort of heard from Jeff, is that investment in capacity has
been a bit of a drag on our profitability in the back half of 2017 and the first half of 2018. And
you're going to feel those plants ramp-up and increase their utilization in the back half of 2018. So
they'll turn from a drag to being a real force for positive momentum in the back half. Was that
helpful?
Operator
Our next question is from `Vijay Bhagavath, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead. And, Vijay
Bhagavath, your line is open, if you're on mute possibly? And we will move on to `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP
with SIG. Please go ahead.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Yes. Thanks for taking my question. I'm looking at the Display as a percentage of net income, and
the mix has steadily declined. Back in 2013 it was in the high 60%, and now it's almost 50%. As
you accelerate the investment in other areas, like what happened in the second half of 2017,
should we also expect a acceleration in this decline in Display net income as a percentage of
overall net income? I'm just trying to better understand how other segments are going to grow
and help continue to diversify the revenue and operating income mix.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
So I think you've got it, Mehdi. I think your observation on what's happened in the past and your
projection of what's in the future is directionally correct. Our other market-access platforms are
going to grow faster than our Display market-access platform, and therefore it will become a
smaller part of our overall corporate mix on income.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
I guess the question is, since you have stepped up investment in other areas, should we expect
acceleration in contribution from other segments?A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Would you like to elaborate on the rate of increase?
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
No. Just not to be cute about it. There's only so much guidance we really want to give and
project, mainly because we don't want the – everything has like a probability sets to it. But I think
in general, you're on track with it.
What you heard from Jeff was that he's expecting $11 billion of revenue this year, right? With the
bulk of that revenue growth coming from other segments other than Display. I think that type of
numbers that you saw that you can interpolate from there and what you saw for 2017 – I think
directionally that's the way to think about it going forward, Mehdi. Very strong growth for the
company overall with Display being stable. Certainly, with the pricing dialogue you heard from
Jeff, there is a possibility that Displays as a segment begins to grow some, but still it'll be at a
lower rate than the rest of the company, I believe.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Got it. Helpful. Thank you.
Operator
And next we'll go to `Steven Fox, Analyst, Cross Research LLC with Cross Research. Please go ahead.
Q - `Steven Fox, Analyst, Cross Research LLC `
Thanks. Good morning. Two questions for me, please. First of all, on the gross margin swing
during 2018, can you give us an idea of how much of the swing is just from ramping down some
of the spending versus expecting new volumes to ramp in the second half? And then as a follow
up, can you just give us a little bit better color on some of the Gorilla Glass Auto wins? Maybe just
by large buckets of interior versus exterior and how you expect that to – how you expect to
realize revenues from that? Thanks.
A - `Jeffrey W. Evenson, Chief Strategy Officer & Senior Vice President `
Steve, when we open any new plant, the staffing and fixed costs tend to ramp earlier than the
production. We have committed demand for these plants, and as we move to higher utilization
rates due to volume increases and meeting this committed demand, we would expect our gross
margins to improve throughout the year with especially strong growth in the second half.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
And on auto, Steve, did I hear your question right? How're we feeling about the ramp and the mix
between glazing exterior versus interior, did I hear that right?
Q - `Steven Fox, Analyst, Cross Research LLC `
Yes. I was just trying to understand like if you looked at the 35 new wins, sort of, what kind ofinside and when will these programs start to ramp?
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
The majority of the platform wins that we have right now are on the interior. One of the reasons
for that is people refresh interiors and adopt new design in interiors much more rapidly than they
refresh the exterior of a car platform. So the majority of those are in interiors.
I think that, though, when we think through the revenue opportunity, we don't see a lot of
difference between the revenue opportunity in interiors and exteriors. Even though the glass area
is quite high in an exterior, the relatively higher value that we add in interior with special optical
surfaces to create a particular viewing experience means that that's quite a high revenue
realization business for us. So I would say, determining between the two probably isn't as
important as the overall rate of adoption as we try to drive this business to another $1 billion
revenue generator for Corning over time.
Q - `Steven Fox, Analyst, Cross Research LLC `
And this would be for 2019, 2020 model year vehicles?
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
We'll start shipping commercially for those products late this year, right? We'll begin but you won't
start to see significant ramp till starting in 2019 and beyond. You should look for when we start to
put in some high-volume manufacturing for the part finishing and optical treatments, should give
you some more evidence and you should hear about that sometime this year, Steve.
Q - `Steven Fox, Analyst, Cross Research LLC `
Great. Thank you very much.
Operator
Our next question is from `Wamsi Mohan, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch (US) with Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead.
Q - `Wamsi Mohan, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch (US) `
Yes. Thank you. So I was just wondering around these price declines, it sounded from your Q1
commentary that there was an improving but higher than mid-single-digit decline which would
improve as that pricing improves, more so throughout the course of the year post Q1. I
appreciate your volumes are lower in Q1 relative to full year, but is 2Q the right timeframe to think
about price declines to get to mid-single digits?
And secondarily, I know Tony, in the past, has said that the core rate could be locked in maybe
over a five-year period. Is the FX volatility causing you to rethink the period of locking in the core
rate at this ¥107 for three versus five years? Thank you.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks for the questions, Wamsi. To the first one on pricing, so let's make sure we're talking
about the right terms. There's both sequential price decline, between quarter four and quarter
one for instance, and then there's year-over-year declines, quarter one this year versus quarter
one last year.What you heard from Jeff was that we are talking now about the really important milestone of
towards the back half of this year, we expect the year-over-year decline to be mid-single digits,
okay? That's a very significant milestone.
The sequential declines is, they have been of low single digit and continue to be. We're seeing
improvement in this quarter one decline versus quarter one of last year and, of course, we're
going to continue to see improvement in the sequential declines to be able to reach this much
lower year-over-year decline rate. But that little shift in terms can lead to misunderstanding. I think
the key thing is we see the rate of price decline improving for us, and we would expect to see
that especially in the back half of the year; that we have evidence for it already in quarter one.
And we would anticipate it as well in quarter two.
A - `Jeffrey W. Evenson, Chief Strategy Officer & Senior Vice President `
With respect to hedging, we find giving a three-year core rate to be effective. It's a good window
to provide certainty for our cash flows and earnings. It allows us to execute in a focused way on
our Strategy and Capital Allocation Framework and deliver on all the goals. Consistent with our
financial policies, we do have hedges in place for the next three-year period but at lower
coverage than the 90% we have through the end of 2020. So we'll give you more details on how
we expect our core rate to evolve as we get closer to the next three-year period.
Q - `Wamsi Mohan, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch (US) `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
And our next question we'll go to `Vijay Bhagavath, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
Q - `Vijay Bhagavath, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Yes. I'm sorry. I was on mute the last time I – you called me. So good morning. My question is
around your Optical portfolio and 5G in particular. 5G, if you'd agree with me, is fundamentally
different from previous wireless generations. 5G uniquely needs both wireless and optical
communication. So my question is around would you focus primarily on the optical
communications opportunity in 5G, or any thoughts on building up a wireless communication
portfolio for 5G now with the fixed wireless starting to pick up and then we're getting into
mobility in 5G? Thanks.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
An excellent question, Vijay. I think your assessment of the difference between 5G wireless
technology and previous generations is accurate in that wireless now becomes a very optically
rich offering as people move towards dense 4G and 5G. As far as expanding outside of Optical,
mainly our focus will be on those things that are fully integrated into our passive optical system
where we can uniquely be able to package and/or facilitate the implementation of wireless for
our customers. We would augment our offering.
But that is a dialogue which we're involved with deeply with our key customers and is really quite
straightforward. It becomes: do you want us to do this? Or do you want to source it? And what is
the least expensive way to build out this infrastructure? So depending on how those dialogues
go, more the value could shift into beyond the optical. But I think it's too soon yet to conclude
where those dialogues will end, Vijay.Q - `Vijay Bhagavath, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Okay. Thanks, Wendell. Truly helpful. A quick follow-on. As you bring up more optical fiber
capacity, I mean I keep seeing these blurbs on the news: you know, keep continuing to build up
new optical manufacturing capacity. Would that have any near-term impacts on segment margins?
Thanks.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Excellent question, Vijay. As you would have heard from Jeff is we've had from our
investments in Optical a bit of a drag in the back half of 2017, and we're having a bit of a drag
here in the first quarter of 2018. We would expect, as those facilities ramp that that drag will
disappear and then turn into a strong positive. As you know, having visited our Optical
Communications plant, our fixed cost in those facilities is high. So our variable margins are also
quite high. So as we fill that up, you can expect to see it have a pretty potent effect on our gross
margins.
Q - `Vijay Bhagavath, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Thank you.
Operator
Our next question's from Patrick Newton with Stifel. Please go ahead.
Q - `Patrick Michael Newton, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Yes, Wendell and Jeff, I wanted to dig a little bit more into gross margin; perhaps a two-part
question. So I guess I'm struggling to see how the commentary on several segments running at
full capacity exiting the year results in the 4Q gross margin missing your guide by about 100 bps.
And it appears to me that the comments that you're making on investment headwinds seem to
be more targeted to the first half of 2018. So maybe you can help us bridge the 41% gross
margin results relative to the 42% guide.
And then, if we look forward and taking into account that a substantial portion of your growth is
coming from some larger – some lower-margin businesses, how should we think about gross
margin post the investment phase? I think that you talked about a 42% gross margin in the back
half of the year, but is that a good intermediate-term target? Meaning that 43% plus that we saw
in the 2014-2015 timeframe is unachievable given mix going forward.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Great question, Patrick. Well, let's start with the Q4. So in Q4, we're also seeing that drag from
our investment cycles. And you're having – what can cause timing delta is that as we actually start
up a plant, then there are certain costs that are triggered that were sitting in a project now flow
through our P&L and our gross margins. So some of that's hitting quarter four, as well as you may
have seen the announcement from Saudi that of the major new strategic alliance we've
announced.
That also started to ship, and so there we had to build a new supply chain. And that contributed
(00:52:51) about four generations of product for them, so it's a new product, new supply chain.
And so as we started to ship that, that also – its profitability was not at the level that it will be
ultimately. So I think really quarter four and quarter one, it's the same basic story, little bit differentof the strength in the overall operations, and we'd expect that to reverse. And I'll turn it over to
Jeff for the back half, but you're right on the target for our gross margin. So, Jeff?
A - `Jeffrey W. Evenson, Chief Strategy Officer & Senior Vice President `
At our new core rates of ¥107 per dollar and KRW 1,175 per dollar, the 2017 gross margin was
41.3%. We expect to be about at that this year. First quarter, we're going to be at 40%. In the
back half of the year for quarters three and quarter four, we'd expect to be above 42%.
The two primary drivers of that are that our new factories will exit the startup stage as we ramp
to meet the committed demand. And then, the second factor is we're taking advantage of the
seasonally-lighter demand in Display to upgrade our Display tanks with the latest technology, and
that will also have a strong benefit in the back half of the year.
Q - `Patrick Michael Newton, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Thanks for taking my question.
Operator
And next, we go to `Stanley Kovler, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. with Citi Research. Please go ahead.
Q - `Stanley Kovler, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Hi. Good morning, everyone and thank you. Just one question on Display and then a follow up on
the Optical side. Panel makers have commented recently that they wanted to refocus on
profitability. And so one question was for 2017 for example when in the second half of the year
there was more discounting to get inventory moving in China. How should we think about those
types of developments going forward when maybe panel makers or OEMs will be less inclined to
discount to get volume through? Your thoughts would be great.
A - `Jeffrey W. Evenson, Chief Strategy Officer & Senior Vice President `
We think that the supply chain inventory exited 2017 at a healthy level and we think it will be
healthy throughout 2018 as we see growth at the retail level.
In terms of impact on us, we think that the glass market volume is going to be up mid-single
digits, and we believe that our pricing can reach mid-single digit year-over-year declines. We think
that pricing is going to be driven by three things: the supply/demand balance, competitor
profitability of glassmakers, and also the need for attractive returns on ongoing investments. And
if you look over the last three years, correlation between panel makers' performance and glass
pricing has been very low. So we feel pretty confident in our guidance.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Stan, was that the question you were asking, sir, or were you aiming more at the Display market?
Q - `Stanley Kovler, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
I appreciate it. No, that was the question. I just wanted to follow up on Optical, related to Verizon.
They announced some NG-PON capabilities I think, that allow them multiple wavelengths on a
single fiber for some of the edge deployments. And I think the focus more in some of these
technologies was to get speed up on a single wavelength. Does this have any implication for you
guys on demand ramp of single-mode fiber? Is this an accelerator? Or could this actually slowA - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
So in general, what drives our demand is going to be footprint by neighborhood or by city. It is
putting the – in telecom, it is putting in place the original infrastructure to be able to service.
As always, when you put in something like GPON, the capability of the fiber is always well in
excess of what you're driving it at. And so quite often, what you'll see is our demand comes when
we basically do the home passes and then ultimately the home drops. And then always the
telecom company can turn up the rate, and turn up the service level, with pretty simple upgrades
in their GPON system inside the network itself.
So this is atypical and we don't see it as impacting us frankly one way or the other, even
negatively or positively other than to the extent that the degree with which our customers serve
their customers better, that that long-term turns into more demand for us.
Q - `Stanley Kovler, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
That's great.
A - `Ann H. S. Nicholson, Division Vice President, Investor Relations `
John, we'll try to get couple more people in.
Operator
Great. And next we have James Faucette with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `James E. Faucette, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Thank you very much. I just wanted to get a little more color on growth drivers for Specialty
Materials and Optical and Displays. Wendell, you talk a little bit about interior glass starting to
move Specialty, or starting to contribute really in 2019. How should we think about it as a growth
driver for Specialty Materials overall? Can it be meaningful in that 2019 as a contributor? Or is it
going to take longer than that?
And I guess in light of your recent comments on this call related to Iris, some other question on
Iris. Can Iris be a meaningful contributor to Display in 2019 or once again is that going to take
longer? Thank you very much.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
So let's start with your first question. Just from a segment sort of accounting method, right now,
we account for auto in the glass area inside other, right? Ultimately, I don't think we've
determined where it will live as a segment, but it links more closely with our automotive market-
access platform than it does on Mobile Consumer Electronics platform.
That being said, because what you really care about is, does it generate revenue or not? I think
2019 will be the year, if everything goes well, that we'll start to feel it in automotive. We're a big
company, and this is just the beginning of this, so it's not going to be a life changing feel in 2019,
okay. But we'll expect it to be really – start to build its momentum in 2019 and then start to really
contribute much more in the next decade.
So in the near-term, what drives us in Specialty is, really the adoption of our new innovations by
more-and-more of the OEMs. And we expect Specialty to grow this year in Mobile ConsumerElectronics. The rate of growth will depend on how quickly people adopt our innovation sets.
In Iris, it's still too early to tell. I think it's very encouraging that two major players in monitors in
Dell and Lenovo, have adopted the Iris technology for the top of their line. I think we need to see
that become a lot more mainstream before that turns from an investment area into a margin
producer.
A - `Ann H. S. Nicholson, Division Vice President, Investor Relations `
Another one for us, John?
Operator
And we'll go to `Joseph Wolf, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. with Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `Joseph Wolf, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Hi. Thank you. I've got a question back to Display, but on the transition in the industry towards
OLED, and not on the TV side, but on the smaller panel size and the lower – and the I guess the
Gen 6, 6.5, competitively, is there any impact – I know you guys are involved in OLED
manufacture, but are your competitors involved in the same way? And is there any longer-term
consideration where the other businesses where your competition is looking at the OLED
opportunity differently than Corning?
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
So could you just build on your question? When you say OLED, sir, what exactly do you mean?
Q - `Joseph Wolf, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Both in flexible and in rigid, where – I know that Corning product is used in the manufacture of the
end product, but perhaps isn't in the final device. And I'm wondering if you believe that your
competitors have the same sort of manufacturing capability or are they looking at that market
differently.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Actually to tell how our competitors are looking at it, Joseph, so let me share instead how we
think about it. Starting back a number of years ago as we evaluated OLED versus LCD
technology, we determined that OLED would probably be most successful in the flexible, small
mobile area because it offered some unique performance advantages there that were highly
valued. So therefore, that's where we focused a lot of our innovation efforts, and our share in that
business is impressively high.
So to the extent that devices go into OLED in Mobile Consumer Electronics as opposed to LCD,
that is a revenue enhancer for us. Now it's a small revenue enhancer because in glass, the area of
the device matters, and so overall, mobile is a relatively small percent of the overall glass
demand.
What we felt then and we continue to feel is that OLED for TV can become a player but a small
player; that fundamentally, it doesn't offer enough value relative to the cost increase versus a
continually improving LCD technologies like you just saw recently at CES with some of the
quantum dot technologies.That being said, we have a strong position as well really any time anybody wants to use the glass.
So I don't have great – any sort of great insight into how do our competitors feel about it, but I
really like our position.
A - `Ann H. S. Nicholson, Division Vice President, Investor Relations `
John, I'll take one last question.
Operator
And that will be from `Doug Clark, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC with Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.
Q - `Doug Clark, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Hey. Great. Thanks for taking my question. I had a question on the Display glass volume
expectations. First, for the market being up mid-single digits in 2018, can you explain what that
means from a TV unit standpoint? TV units have been down for the past few years. I'm wondering
if you're assuming a reacceleration in growth.
And then secondly, on Corning's share gains and the relationship with BOE driving above market
volume growth, can you quantify that? Should we be expecting high-single digit glass volume
growth for Corning in 2018? So essentially the materiality of BOE in 2018? Thanks.
A - `Jeffrey W. Evenson, Chief Strategy Officer & Senior Vice President `
Sure. We expect screen size to be the primary driver of growth this year. And in terms of our
growth, BOE is ramping its Gen 10.5 facility. We're ramping our glass in tandem. So we expect
stability in other areas and that to be a little adder for us. But that's all the guidance we're giving
at this time.
Q - `Doug Clark, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Thanks a lot.
A - `Ann H. S. Nicholson, Division Vice President, Investor Relations `
Great. All right. Thank you all for joining us today. Before we close, I just wanted to remind you
that we will issue an 8-K today with our core data recast to a yen of 107 and a won of 1,175. We'll
be attending the Goldman Sachs Conference on February 13, and we'll be planning to attend at
least one conference a quarter for the rest of the year. We'll also be providing some virtual
presentations and webcasts on business topics throughout the year.
Finally, there will be a web replay of today's call on our website starting later this morning and a
telephone replay available for the next two weeks with details in today's news release. So once
again, thank you all for joining us.
John, that concludes our call. Please disconnect all lines.