Q4 2018 Earnings Call

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Corning Incorporated Quarter Three 2018 Earnings Call.
As a reminder today's conference is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to turn the conference
over to Ann Nicholson, Division Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
`Ann H. S. Nicholson, Division Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you Tanya, and good morning. Welcome to Corning's fourth quarter 2018 earnings call.
With me today are Wendell Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; `Tony Tripeny, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President,
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Jeff Evenson, Executive Vice President
and Chief Strategy Officer. I'd like to remind you that today's remarks contain forward-looking
statements that fall within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Those statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to
differ materially.
These factors are detailed in the company's financial reports. You should also note that we will be
discussing our consolidated results using core performance measures, unless we specifically
indicate our comments related to GAAP data. Our core performance measures are non-GAAP
measures used by management to analyze the business. A reconciliation of core results to the
comparable GAAP value can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website at
corning.com. You may also access core results on our website with downloadable financials in the
Interactive Analyst Center. Supporting slides are being shown live on our webcast. We encourage
you to follow along. They're also available on our website for downloading.
And now I'll turn the call over to Wendell.
`Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you Ann and good morning everyone. This morning we reported a very strong finish to an
excellent 2018. For the fourth quarter sales were $3.1 billion, up 15% year-over-year. Net income
was $539 million, up 18% year-over-year, and EPS was $0.59, up 28% year-over-year. For the full
year sales were $11.4 billion and EPS was $1.78, both up 11% from 2017. We also delivered on our
goal to improve gross margins to 42% in the second half, a significant increase over last year andthe first half of 2018. All of our businesses produced year-over-year sales growth in 2018.
Highlights include Optical Communications sales up 18% for the second consecutive year;
Environmental sales up 17% as the adoption of gasoline particulate filters accelerated; Specialty
Materials sales up 5% following an exceptional 2017 growth of 25%; Display sales up 4% as we
ramped our new Gen 10.5 facility, and annual price declines reached the important milestone of
mid single-digits in the second half and full year pricing was the best in more than a decade.
Life Sciences sales up 8% as we continue to outpace market growth. For the past 3 years, we
have invested for growth through our Strategy and Capital Allocation Framework. The significant
benefits of these investments are evident in our financial performance. In 2018 we built new
capacity, launched new products, grew sales by more than $1 billion, and extended our leadership
position in all businesses. We exited the year with strong execution, expanded margins and great
momentum. We expect our momentum to continue into 2019 and beyond, while we expect
strong year-over-year growth in the first quarter and additional growth in subsequent quarters.
In total, we anticipate another strong year for Corning. We also feel confident that we're well
positioned for long term growth. Important trends such as 5G, Smartcards, Connected Homes
and Augmented Reality are converging around Corning's unique capabilities. These
interconnected ecosystems require technologies that have been our fundamental strength for
decades. Our proprietary manufacturing processes and deep expertise in glass, ceramics and
optical physics are more relevant than ever. Overall, we're excited about 2019 and our future
opportunities as Tony will describe in more detail in just a few minutes.
Now let's turn to the Strategy and Capital Allocation Framework. Under the Framework we target
generating $26 billion to $30 billion in cash through 2019. We plan to return more than $12.5 billion
to our shareholders through repurchases and dividends, and to invest $10 billion to extend our
leadership and deliver growth. As we've discussed with you numerous times we have continued
to make great progress toward the Framework goals we announced in October 2015. As we
enter the final year of our plan, we expect to meet our stated goals. Our cash generation is on
target, and through the end of 2018 we have returned $11.8 billion to shareholders. We increased
dividends per share by 50% since the Framework began.
Investments in RD&E, capital expenditures and acquisitions also remain on track to our 4-year
plan totaling $8.2 billion through the end of 2018. As outlined in our Framework, Corning is best in
the world in three core technologies, four manufacturing and engineering platforms and five
market-access platforms. Our capabilities are interrelated and reinforcing. We focus 80% of our
resources on opportunities that use capabilities in at least two of these three categories. This
increases our probability of success, reduces the cost of innovation, creates stronger competitive
advantages, and most importantly delights our customers.
Now I'll turn to progress in each of our market-access platforms, starting with Optical
Communications. Our performance in Optical Communications continues to be outstanding, and
we expect to surpass our goal of $5 billion in 2020 sales with further growth beyond. We remain
the world leader in passive optical solutions, and the only true end-to-end supplier of integrated
solutions. 2018 was an excellent year for our Optical Communications business. Recognition of
the value created by our solutions and total innovation approach continues to grow. We secured
additional multi-year contracts with industry leaders in the carrier and data center segments,
which will add significant sales and profits in 2019 and beyond.
This committed demand supports our additional investment to manufacturing capacity. Another
highlight of the year was completing the acquisition of 3M's Communication Markets Division. In
addition to bringing us a talented group of employees, it extends our market reach and access toglobal customers, while expanding our portfolio in rapidly growing optical solutions markets. Next,
we achieved product milestones that demonstrate our long track record of innovation and
industry expertise. Our pre-connecterized Fiber-to-the-Home solution have passed more than 45
million homes around the world.
We introduced products in 2018 such as extreme-density cable tailored for next generation
hyperscale data center architectures, as well as a fiber that offers significant advantages for high
throughput transmission. All products continue to reduce network cost and increase the speed of
installations. And we earned industry accolades in multiple customers segments, including data
centers and access networks. Interestingly beyond the hardware solutions, we also developed
software tools that speed up installation. For example, FiberPass helps accelerate typical
installations from weeks to just days. Bruce Furlong, Bell's Vice President of Deployment and
Access described the benefits this way, "the efficiency and accuracy of the FiberPass solution has
contributed to the rapid expansion of Bell's broadband network in our fast growing Fibe TV in
Internet services."
Our investments in capacity clearly paid off in the second half of 2018 with strong sales growth
and even greater growth in profitability. As we turn to 2019, committed demand supports
additional investments and will lead to additional growth. Overall, we expect to continue to grow
more than twice as fast as the communications infrastructure market. Now let's turn to mobile
consumer electronics where we are the world leader in glass for smartphones, tablets and
emerging categories like WEPS in augmented reality devices. Our goal has been to double
mobile consumer electronic sales over the next several years despite a maturing smartphone
market, and we've been making significant progress towards that goal.
(12:11). First, we're capturing more value per device. We extended our leadership in the cover
glass market with the launch of Gorilla Glass 6 in July. Leading OEMs are continuing to design our
premium glasses into their devices. We expect more than 10 new models with Gorilla Glass 6 to
launch throughout this year. We're not only benefiting from adoption of our premium glasses, but
also from more glass on each phone. Glass back penetration on smartphones doubled from 15%,
in 2017 to 30% in 2018, and we expect continued growth in 2019.
We're also significantly expanding our presence in the aftermarket. As announced this month, we
will collaborate with OtterBox, the number one selling smartphone case brand in the U.S., to
introduce the Amplify line of glass screen protectors. This will offer extra protection for
consumers and add a third piece of our glass to devices. Second, we are winning in new and
emerging device categories. We launched Corning Gorilla Glass DX and DX+ in July, which
provides enhanced antireflective optics and scratch resistance for wearables. These new glass
composites are continuing to gain traction in the wearable market with several launches slated
during the first half.
We're also partnering with leading consumer electronics makers on augmented reality devices,
and precise 3D sensing technology. For example, at CES we announced an agreement with
WaveOptics, to help enable sleek augmented reality wearables. The UltraFlat high index glass
that Corning supplies coupled with our proprietary laser processing and characterization tools
enable optimized image quality and sleek device form factors. So overall, we're off to a great
start to meet our goal to double sales in mobile consumer electronics. A quick fun fact. Since
2016, smartphone unit sales have been relatively flat. We however grew our sales in this space
30% due to our innovations. We'll continue to innovate for our customers, and you'll continue to
see more Corning in your devices.Turning to Automotive market-access platforms, our materials expertise is helping to propel the
auto industry into a new era of cleaner cars with enhanced cockpit functionality, connectivity and
design. Our objectives are to build on our base business with the gasoline particulate filter
opportunity, and to launch an automotive glass business. 2018 was an exciting year for both
objectives. Our gasoline particulate filter technology makes cars significantly cleaner. We
exceeded $50 million in GPF sales in 2018, as European regulations took effect, and we expect
more than $150 million in 2019 GPF sales.
China will be the next to introduce GPFs with initial filter sales this year as OEMs prepare for the
first phase of China VI regulations in mid-2020. We are ramping dedicated capacity in China to
support a robust pipeline of business, resulting from upcoming Chinese regulations. Next, we
experienced strong call for Gorilla Glass for Automotive in 2018. We are capitalizing on long-term
industry trends that are driving demand for technical glass. At CES, automakers confirmed the
trend towards larger, longer shaped and more integrated displays. We also saw strong pull for
Corning's industry-first AutoGrade Glass Solutions for automotive interiors, launched exclusively
with customers at CES.
These new solutions are making it easier and more affordable for automakers to bring curved
and flat displays to market. In total, we've been awarded more than 55 platforms to-date
globally. Demand is materializing faster than we expected, and we are accelerating our
investments accordingly. In our Life Sciences Vessels platform, we continue to make strong
progress on the path to a new long-term multi-billion dollar franchise. Valor Glass substantially
reduces particle contamination, breaks and cracks while significantly increasing throughput. Valor
helps protect patients and improve pharmaceutical manufacturing.
Key customers are advancing towards the FDA certification required for the use of Valor. We
continue to make progress with our development partners Merck and Pfizer, and shipments are
increasing to other major pharmaceutical manufacturers to support their individual drug
regulatory filings. Total shipments of Valor Glass increased four-fold compared to 2017, indicating
growing progress towards certification across more pharmaceutical companies. In parallel, we're
supporting customers by scaling up our production capabilities on pace with market adoption. We
brought new capacity online in 2018 and expanded our range of products. We're also progressing
with the construction of the new high-volume manufacturing facility in North Carolina that we
announced in April.
Finally, industry pull remains favorable. Regulatory concerns about the need for improved glass
packaging were highlighted in the lead story of the January PDA Letter, reinforcing the need for
new solutions such as Valor Glass. In addition, Valor Glass was named one of the top six
pharmaceutical and medical packaging developments in 2018 by Packaging Digest. We continue
to believe Valor has the potential to power Corning's growth for the next decade and beyond.
We remain closely engaged with the FDA and support its efforts to address this important public
health issue. We look forward to being able to share additional updates soon.
In Display, we're delivering stable returns. During 2018, we extended our global leadership by
successfully ramping the world's first Gen 10.5 glass plant. This accomplishment allowed us to
grow volume faster than the overall market. Also the Display glass pricing environment continues
to improve. We reached the important milestone of mid single-digit year-over-year price decline
in the second half of 2018. In fact, 2018 was the best pricing environment in more than a decade.
We expect the pricing environment to improve further in 2019 and reach mid single-digit declines
for the full year. We're off to a great start with first quarter price declines expected to be
significantly better than quarter one 2018 and the best quarter one in a decade. Display will
continue to execute its proven strategy to deliver stable returns.So we continue to make significant progress across all our market-access platforms. Ultimately,
we remain on track to fully achieve our Strategy and Capital Allocation Framework goals. In 2018,
we leveraged our investments to meet increased demand from our customers, grow sales and
significantly improve profitability in the second half just as we said we would. Looking ahead, we
are confident in our ability to deliver sustained performance. We have multiple businesses driving
our growth. Our capabilities are becoming increasingly vital to important trends. Our relationships
with industry-leading customers are opening new opportunities, and our strategic investments
are paying off. We're not only succeeding in building a bigger company, we're building a stronger,
more resilient one.
We look forward to outlining the next phase of our strategic framework in the coming months.
Now, let me turn the call over to Tony for a review of our results and outlook.
`Tony Tripeny, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Thank you, Wendell and good morning. We had another outstanding quarter and our full year
results exceeded our expectations. In 2018, we did what we said we were going to do, which was
to expand our manufacturing capacity in the first half and begin leveraging those growth
investments in the second half. In 2019, we expect to build on this momentum and keep growing
across all of our businesses. Before I get into the details of our performance and results, I want to
know that the primary difference between our GAAP and core results is again a non-cash mark-
to-market adjustment for our currency hedge contracts. As we've discussed before, GAAP
accounting requires earning translation hedge contracts settling in future periods to be mark-to-
market, and recorded a current value at the end of each quarter even though those contracts will
not be settled in the current quarter.
For us, this resulted in an after-tax GAAP loss of $180 million for the fourth quarter. To be clear,
this mark-to-market accounting has no impact on our cash flow. Our currency hedges protect us
economically from foreign exchange rate fluctuations, and provide higher certainty for our
earnings and cash flow, our ability to invest for growth and our future shareholder distributions.
Our non-GAAP or core results provide additional transparency into operations by using a constant
currency rate aligned with the economics of our underlying transactions. We're very pleased with
our hedging program and the economic certainty it provides. We've received $1.7 billion in cash
under our hedge contracts since their inception slightly over five years ago.
Now, that brings me to our results and outlook. For the fourth quarter, sales were up 15% year-
over-year to $3.1 billion, net income rose 18% to $539 million and EPS was $0.59, up 28%. For the
full year, sales were $11.4 billion and EPS was $1.78, both up 11%. As Wendell noted, this strong
growth resulted from customers adopting our innovations and from us capturing the benefits of
our capacity investments. As a reminder, our capacity expansion projects in 2018 supported
strong committed customer demand across all businesses. These investments include capacity
expansion for optical fiber and cable, Gen 10.5 Display glass, gasoline particulate filters and
multiple development projects such as Gorilla Glass for mobile devices and automotive. 2018
capital spending totaled $2.2 billion. As our new capacity ramped towards full production levels,
our sales run rate climbed and our gross margin expanded to 42% in the second half of the year.
Turning to the balance sheet. We ended the quarter with $2.4 billion of cash. Adjusted operating
cash flow for the year was $3.2 billion and on track for the cumulative target in the four-year
capital allocation plan. Now, let's look at the detailed segment results and outlook. In Display
Technologies, we're delivering stable returns where full year sales were $3.3 billion, up 4% year-
over-year. Fourth quarter performance was in line with our expectations. Sales were $899 million,
and net income was $240 million. 2018 was the best pricing environment in more than a decade.As expected fourth-quarter price declines were very moderate at a mid single-digit percentage
year-over-year and even more moderate than Q3. With over 90% of our volume under contract,
we expect our full-year 2019 price declines to improve further to a mid single-digit percentage,
and to be even better than they were in 2018.
For the first quarter of 2019, we expect sequential price declines to be significantly better than
the first quarter of 2018, and be the most favorable first quarter price change in over a decade.
Now, three factors continue to drive our view that this favorable pricing environment will continue.
First, we expect glass supply to continue to be balanced or even tight. Our new Gen 10.5 plants
supports the expected growth of large size TVs. It is co-located with and dedicated to our
customer BOE. We pace and align capacity in tandem with BOE to ensure our Gen 10.5 glass
supply is balanced to demand. The ramp is on schedule. We expect the glass supply-demand
balance below Gen 10.5 to continue to be tight as public information indicates there is little
capacity growth planned in this segment.
Second, our competitors continue to face profitability challenges at current pricing levels.
Therefore, we expect their price declines will slow further as they try to remain profitable. And
third, Display glass manufacturing requires ongoing investment in current capacity to maintain
operations. To generate acceptable returns on investments, glass pricing will need to improve
even further. For Corning, we will only add capacity if we can get an attractive return for our
shareholders. In the fourth quarter, Display glass market volumes were low single-digit growth
sequentially and our volume grew faster as expected due to the ramp of our Gen 10.5 plant. For
the full year, the Display glass market volume increased mid single-digits as expected driven by
growth in TV screen size. We expect mid single-digit growth again in 2019 also driven by growth
in TV screen size.
We also expect our volume to grow more than the market once again, resulting from the ramp of
our Gen 10.5 plant during that 2018. In the first quarter of 2019, we expect the Display glass
market to be up mid single-digits year-over-year and our volume to be up significantly more.
Sequentially, we expect the market and our volume to decline by mid single-digit percentage
consistent with normal seasonality. In summary, we remain very pleased with the current dynamics
in our Display business, including our ability to capture higher productivity and margins through
fleet optimization and the Gen 10.5 ramp, and most importantly the fact that we are now
delivering stable returns. Let's move to our fastest growing segment Optical Communications.
Full year sales were $4.2 billion, up 18% for the second consecutive year. The business is on track
to surpass its goal of $5 billion in 2020 sales.
Net income was up 26% year-over-year. In the fourth quarter, sales exceeded $1 billion for the
third consecutive quarter and we were up 26%, over 2017. Net income for the quarter was up
60% year-over-year. Sales growth for the year and the quarter were driven by multi-year data
center and carrier projects, availability of new manufacturing capacity, as well as sales from the
recently acquired 3M Communication Markets Division. As planned we are leveraging our capacity
investments to drive higher volume and earnings. Our mid-year acquisition of 3M's
Communication Markets Division contributed about $200 million to 2018 sales. We are pleased
with our progress on integrating this acquisition and continue to expect it to be accretive to EPS in
2019.
Looking forward we expect first quarter sales to be up in the low 20% range year-over-year. We
expect another year of growth with full year 2019 sales up low-teens. Key growth drivers include
customer projects and the full-year of sales from the 3M acquisition. Our customers, the world's
leading network and cloud operators continue to deploy Corning's optical solutions to densify
their 4G, 5G and data center networks. We continue to be very excited about the growth aheadof us. Environmental Technologies 2018 sales were $1.3 billion, up 17% year-over-year, driven by
growth in all product categories and accelerated by emerging sales of GPFs. Net income grew
faster than sales at 26% year-over-year.
2018 GPF sales were more than $50 million as demand ramped strongly in the second half of the
year, primarily in Europe. We are now starting to sell into China with early adoption of China VI
regulations. Dedicated capacity and engineering investments support the ramp of this business.
Fourth quarter Environmental sales grew 10%, year-over-year. Looking to 2019, we expect first
quarter sales growth of mid single-digits and full-year sales to be up high single-digits year-over-
year. We expect $150 million of GPF sales in 2019, and we continue to add capacity to meet the
additional demand.
In Specialty Materials, 2018 results were strong after an exceptional year of 25% sales growth in
2017. Full-year sales rose 5% as OEMs adopted our portfolio of premium glass products, and the
use of glass backs doubled to about 30% of smartphones in 2018. Fourth quarter sales were
$399 million in line with our expectations, and up 2% versus the very strong fourth quarter in 2017,
when customers built aggressively to support launch cycles. Overall, we are pleased with our
performance in Specialty Materials. Our results demonstrate the value of our premium glasses,
the strength of our innovation portfolio and the continued adoption of glass smartphone backs.
For the first quarter we expect sales to grow mid-to-high single-digits year-over-year. We also
expect to grow again for the full year despite a mature market. Exactly how much will depend on
the adoption rate of our innovations. In Life Sciences, 2018 sales were $946 million, up 8% year-
over-year, with strong fourth quarter sales as we continue to outpace market growth. Net income
was up 23% year-over-year driven by higher sales volume and manufacturing efficiencies. We
expect sales growth to be a low to mid single-digit percentage year-over-year for the first
quarter and full year.
In summary, 2018 was a terrific year. All of our businesses have strong momentum and we expect
another year of sales, gross margin, net income and EPS growth in 2019. We expect 2019 gross
margin dollars in percent to expand due to the manufacturing capacities that came online in 2018,
our improved utilization of that capacity and the strength of our sales growth. The percentage
increase will be somewhat muted due to our continuing investments in 2019 to meet committed
demand for optical communications, GPF and automotive glass. We expect to see the sales and
margin benefit of these additional investments starting Q2, and build throughout the remainder
of the year.
In the first quarter, we expect double-digit year-over-year sales, gross margin dollars and net
income growth. We expect gross margin percent to improve slightly from Q1 2018. Sequentially,
we expect Q1 gross margin dollars and percent to be down due to seasonality in Display and
Specialty as is typical. We expect both to improve in Q2 and to continue climbing throughout the
year. Annual operating expenses should remain consistent with last year as a percentage of sales.
For the full year, SG&A is expected to be about 14% of sales and RD&E between 8% and 8.5%.
We expect other income, other operating expenses to be approximately $250 million for the
year. Full-year gross equity earnings are expected to be approximately $210 million,
predominantly from Hemlock Semiconductor, with the first quarter at approximately $20 million
consistent with typical seasonality. Fourth quarter 2018 gross equity earnings were $152 million.
Our tax rate should be between 21% and 22% for the year and for the quarter. The slide we
posted gives you additional modeling-related details for the first quarter and the full year. In 2019,
we expect to spend just over $2 billion on capital expenditures with programs in every market-access platform. How much more will depend on how quickly we ramp some of our investments.
We'll provide more detail as the year progresses.
Finally, I would like to make a couple of comments on the economic environment, in particular
China. First, as we said previously, we do not expect a material impact from the enacted tariffs.
Second, we incorporated conservative estimates for China end-market demand for TVs and
autos and our strong guidance and outlook for 2019. If Chinese demand is better, there is an
opportunity for upside.
In closing, 2018 demonstrates that we are delivering on our priorities to grow and extend our
leadership. Results were outstanding with 11% sales growth and second half margin expansion.
Our strong guidance reflects the rich set of opportunities ahead of us in 2019 and beyond as we
continue to grow faster than the market across all of our businesses. We are also rewarding
investors by returning more than $12.5 billion to shareholders which compounds the benefit of our
future growth for long term shareholders.
With that, let's move to Q&A. Ann?
`Ann H. S. Nicholson, Division Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thanks Tony. Tanya we're ready for the first question
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. Our first question comes from the line of `Steven Fox, Analyst, Cross Research LLC with Cross Research. Please go
ahead
Q - `Steven Fox, Analyst, Cross Research LLC `
Thanks. Good morning and congratulations on the results. Wendell, a bit of an open-ended
question for you on optical. So you obviously are growing a lot faster than market. So I was
curious if you can maybe, one, talk about some of the key end markets you're serving and what
you're expecting in terms of spending there, and then what are the key innovations that are
driving the outgrowth in say like data center broadband and wireless. Thanks.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks to the question Steve. So the primary reason we're growing faster than the market really
sort of has three layers to it. First of all, you're just seeing new networks being put in place that
used to be fiber poor and because of the requirements in our innovations are going to be fiber
rich. So in a way for us you can think about it is, it's not the just more networks, but basically it's
more us in the network. And that's why you start to see us begin to differentiate from the industry
growth. Take something like wireless, as everybody's heard a lot about 4G densification or 5G,
wireless today is a relatively fiber lean architecture. As you move to the wireless of the future you
end up adding a lot of glass. So as they talk about wireless networks densifying, what that really
means is they are glassifying.
And so if you compare us to others who're already in the wireless market, we were pretty small
but now we're getting pretty big because of our innovations and the requirements for what it is a
unique fiber optics expertise offers. You see a similar dynamic happening in data centers with the
continued strong growth really at the percent of the load, this cloud-based, which then allows
when you do things like public in cloud, you didn't realize private clouds, you do concentrate muchmore processing power that is shared across many, that then makes it more economical since
you have that bandwidth all in one place to start using fiber where you used to use copper. So
once again a substitution effect.
Now, all of these things are furthered by the dynamic that we have a set of unique innovations in
all of those areas that give us some additional advantage versus other players. So that's why you
tend to see the difference. Now, then you asked another question which is where do we expect
to see the growth here in these coming years. We expect to see it being driven in access
networks, especially with an accent on wireless densification, and then we do expect to see our
hyperscale data center business to continue to grow strongly, and as now there's new concept of
sort of more edge compute and more edge cloud that that also opening up some opportunities
for us. So sorry for the long answer Steven. Does that get at the core of what you're talking
about?
Q - `Steven Fox, Analyst, Cross Research LLC `
Yes, it does. Just one other clarification, on hyperscale field, can you just sort of talk about how
that plays out? It tends to be lumpy in general. Do these new contracts actually smooth out the
business for you, and like what's involved in them if you can to the extent you can expand on that.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
That's a really good question. So you're right, if they tend to be pretty big construction projects
that are little like our access network builds which are also big civil works projects, they can be
kind of lumpy. I think what the new contracts do is not so much has changed the silver works of
reality of putting in these large facilities, as it does is it increases both the size of our business
and the number of different areas that we're doing it, the number of different customers that
we're doing it with, and the number of different locations we're building at. So by increasing the
number of projects, in a way it becomes a little smoother, not because the individual projects
aren't lumpy, they are, but that they end up being in slightly different stages at different times.
But I'm quite sure, at some point we'll hit a time where things look a little lumpier because a
number of the projects go together.
Q - `Steven Fox, Analyst, Cross Research LLC `
Great. That's very helpful. Thank you.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Thanks.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group. Please go ahead.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
Yes, thanks for taking my question. Tony, your Display net income margin was 25% for 2018, and it
was in the 28% range for 2017. You're talking about continued improvement. Should I assume that
it's going to take a couple of years to get back to that 28% margin, or is there any other metric
that you can provide so that we could better see how the margin improvement especially for
Display is going to track? And then for Wendell, Specialty Materials, you have been investing in
diversifying outside of the smartphone. It's great to know that you have a higher content in thesmartphone. But can you provide us an update on diversification as of this smartphone and either
into auto end market? Thank you.
A - `Tony Tripeny, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Sure Mehdi, let me take the Display question first. I mean, clearly what happened to us in Display
in the first half of the year is that we saw some margin contraction, and that was driven both by
our investment in Gen 10.5, but then it was also driven by our fleet optimization. And what we saw
in the second half of the year was the benefit of those things to occur. And you saw it in the
fourth quarter results where our profits were up more than our sales were on a year-over-year
basis. And so when we've always talked about stabilization, what we've talked about is getting to
a certain profit level and continuing that on a going forward basis, and we think that we feel good
about the stabilization we saw in the second half. In fact the fact that we grew profits in the
second half, then we think that's evidence of the strategy that we've been working on for a
number of years really starting to pay off.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Great. And Mehdi for the content piece, and where are we going outside of smartphone. We of
course expect smartphones for the foreseeable future to be people's primary device, but where
we're making really strong progress is in areas like wearables, notebooks and augmented reality.
And so in wearables and notebooks, what we've done in both those areas is introduce by using
our Vapor Deposition technologies, new composite materials that take our value on something
like a wearable and a notebook up by like a factor of 5 and those areas also allows to add value.
Then you have entirely new device categories like augmented reality where you're seeing the
potential start to take shape for really significant innovation and the vast new device category. But
it's soon, it's too soon to get too excited about it. There's still time for all the positioning
innovations, and that's something that years from now will offer a larger opportunity for us than
what it is smartphones do today, but that's going to take a while to develop.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
Can I have a follow up here, if I may? It seems to me in the Specialty Materials and Environmental
Technologies you're executing and able to increase content either for smartphone or for other
application. As to end market diversification, it's maybe a couple of years away. Is that the best
way to summarize this?
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, it's really interesting what you've noted. Because we think it's one of the things that's
making us more resilient from an economic standpoint, is you've noted that in those two areas
we're not necessarily talking about more devices, we're talking about more Corning. And if you
were listening when I answered Steven's question of why are we growing faster, and
communications spend, the communications infrastructure, once again, it's an answer of more of
our content, it's more us, necessarily a lot more network. In Automotive what you heard Tony talk
about is, we're not counting on more cars, what we're counting on is more content from us with
gas particulate filters, our Auto Glass Solutions. So you're right, you're not seeing us diversify out
of our core market-access platforms or five, instead you're seeing us get more product
opportunities within it. We believe this is going to reduce degree of economic sensitivity, and
increase the resilience of our growth, but really observant. Thank you for asking that.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Wamsi Mohan, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Ltd. with Bank of America. Please
go ahead.
Q - `Wamsi Mohan, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Ltd. `
Yes, thank you. Good morning. Tony, can you address sort of the overall gross margins in 2019?
Your pretty easy compares from Q1 of last year when you were ramping your Gen 10, but you're
talking about only a marginal uplift here in Q1 of this year and you noted some investment. So
could you just give us some sense on sort of the magnitude of these investments, and overall
magnitude of gross margin improvement like is it 50 basis points or 100 basis points in 2019?
And a quick follow up to your comment about China end market assumptions being conservative,
can you maybe quantify those? Are you talking about auto production down 10%, like what are
smartphone assumptions, what are TV unit assumptions? That would be helpful. Thank you.
A - `Tony Tripeny, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Sure. Wamsi, overall we're really pleased with our gross margin performance. We said at the
beginning of 2018 that we're investing intensely, and that would lead to significant growth in
margin expansion in the back half and that's exactly what happened. Our sales were up 16% in
the back half over the first half, and our gross margins expanded about 150 basis points. And we
expect going forward continued strong margin performance both in dollars and percentages, but
it does get somewhat muted by investments that we're making. And the good news is those
investments are for committed growth in Optical Communications, GPF and then Auto Glass, and
we're going to start seeing those investments starting in Q2, the benefits of those investments,
and it's going to expand from there.
Now, in any given quarter, things are going to be impacted by seasonality of our businesses, like
it is in the first quarter, by the various mixes that we have in the businesses. But we're happy with
each of our businesses' performances, they're the best in the industries, and also just by the total
impact of these investments. So in Q1, you'll see some of these investments impacting us, but
the main reason why Q1 is down versus Q4 is really the seasonality, not the investments. In terms
of China, we were happy with the approach we took in the third and the fourth quarter. It turned
out that we were exactly right on both in terms of where auto production ended up in China and
also from a TV standpoint. So we feel good about that, and as we go forward into next year,
we're assuming the declines in both of those markets in the strong guidance that I gave you for
the year.
A - `Ann H. S. Nicholson, Division Vice President, Investor Relations `
Next question?
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from the line of `Rod Hall, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC with Goldman Sachs. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Rod Hall, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Yeah, hi guys, thanks for fitting me in. I just had a real quick question on the full-year guidance,
maybe a two-parter actually. So the guidance is better than we expected, the most bullish pointof it is Display, and I wondered if within Display you could talk about the inter-play of your share
assumptions versus unit growth assumptions. So any color you can give us on which of those –
how much share you expect to gain, for example, would be interesting. And then on Specialty, is
all of the weakness or the slowdown in Specialty China or are there other macro issues that you
see or demand issues, just any further color on that would also be helpful in that full-year guide.
Thanks.
A - `Tony Tripeny, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Sure. Let me start with the Display guidance. Fundamentally, what drives the glass market in
Display of course is screen size. And in 2018, the screen size drove the market growth to the mid
single-digits, and that's what we expect to happen again. Now, we also were benefited a little bit
in 2018 where the number of TV units went up, but that still, what really matters here is the
screen size growth. As we go into 2019, we again think the market is going to grow about the mid
single-digits, and what's driving that is the screen size growth. Now, most people looking at the
market think that TV units themselves are going to be flat to down a little bit, a lot of that being
driven in China, and we factored that into our projections.
But what really drives the market is the screen size growth, and we expect it once again to be in
about the mid single-digits. Now, we'll grow faster than that because of the Gen 10.5 ramp, but
generally speaking it's about the mid single-digits. Relative to Specialty Materials, again, what
really drives the growth there is the technology adoption of our product, as Wendell would say,
having more Corning in those products. Last year, I think most people believed smart phones
were down a little bit, that's what they're projecting again for this year, a lot of that being driven
in China, but the reason that we're confident that we can be up is because of the adoption of the
technologies. How much we're going to be up will depend on the actual timing of that adoption,
but we feel pretty good about that.
Q - `Rod Hall, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Just to touch briefly on your share question, we tend not to think about it so much as share, as
what's happening is with this constant move to larger size TVs and these new Gen 10.5 plants
that are getting built, when those happen we co-locate and build a Gen 10.5 glass plant with a
customer. And since those plans have a much lower cost platform for overall large television
panels, what we expect is that category of Gen 10.5 to take more and more of the market, and it
just so happens that because of our lead technically, that ends up being more us than the below
Gen 10.5. So that's another dynamic that's what's leading to the more us than Tony's comments
of the overall market growth. Does that answer your question Rod?
A - `Rod Hall, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Yeah. Thanks Wendell, that's very helpful. I appreciate that.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Asiya Merchant, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc.. Please go ahead.
Q - `Asiya Merchant, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `Thank you and congratulations as well on the strong quarter. Quick question on optical. You guys
have been posting strong net income margin growth in that segment, obviously as you scale. It's
still obviously below Display. How should we think about the improvement in utilization helping to
kind of bridge that gap? Are we ever going to get to margins, not net income, but even on the
gross margin line, getting to corporate average given the additional investments you're going to
be making in 2019? Thank you.
A - `Tony Tripeny, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
We're really thrilled with our performance in our Optical Communications business. I mean we've
both been growing sales significantly, and we've been growing our profitability even greater than
that. And that's what the real focus is on any given business unit at Corning. I mean that's how we
measure the business unit success, and we're having great success in Optical Communications.
We have had some margin expansion in that business, and I'd expect to continue to have some
margin expansion in that business, and I think that's the way to model. We don't spend a lot of
time comparing business-to-business because each of them have different economics and
different levels of investment. But I mean, we feel great about the Optical Communications
performance.
Q - `Asiya Merchant, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Great. And just if I may, given that you are annualizing the 3M acquisition in 2019, the core organic,
is that still growing at low-teens or is there any down shift in expectations there?
A - `Tony Tripeny, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Asiya, we feel great about our organic growth. And in fact, if you look at the Q1 numbers, the
organic growth is almost about 20% on a year-over-year basis. So we feel really good about
organic growth.
Q - `Asiya Merchant, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Ann H. S. Nicholson, Division Vice President, Investor Relations `
We have time for one more question we can squeeze in.
Operator
Thank you. And our last question comes from the line of `Vijay Bhagavath, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.. Please go ahead.
Q - `Vijay Bhagavath, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Yeah. Hey, thanks. Hey Wendell, I must say solid results here. My question is not on optical this
time, it's on Auto Glass, continue to hear a lot of news flow around AutoGrade Glass, you're
getting into automotive interiors. Talk to us about how that business kind of unravels heading into
rest of the year. Thanks.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks for noticing everything that our customers are saying about us. As I shared last quarter,
basically our AutoGrade interior opportunity has come a lot faster than we were ready for,
operationally. And so we're investing in a dedicated plant that uses our unique vapor depositiontechnologies and a part-making capability to be able to set up to start to serve that really strong
committed demand that we're getting. I think this year is going to be that year where you're
seeing the real breakthrough, and you'll start to see the revenues really start to flow. Getting it
exactly right of where on the adoption curve, we're still a little early to be able to accurately call,
well, I think the rate of adoption is going to be X and our revenue growth is going to be Y, we're
still a little bit early to be able to call it. But the great news is that's going to be a real business,
and it's going to have real revenues, and we're investing against it, and ultimately we think it's
going to be a real big business. If we're right on our innovations, and this product is as cool as we
think it is, we're going to like this.
Q - `Vijay Bhagavath, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Excellent. Thank you again.
A - `Ann H. S. Nicholson, Division Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thanks Vijay. And I so enclose by saying thank you all for joining us. I also want to let you know that
we'll be at the Goldman Sachs Technology and Internet Conference on February 12. And we'll be
hosting an Investor Day in New York City on June 14. We'll also be posting some virtual
presentations and webcast on business topics throughout the year. Finally, the web replay of
today's call will be available on our site starting later this morning. Once again, thank you all for
joining us. Tanya, that concludes our call, please disconnect all lines.
Operator
Thank you ladies and gentlemen. That does conclude our conference for today. We thank you for
your participation, and for using AT&T Executive Teleconference Service. You may now
disconnect.