Q4 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Welcome to the Corning Incorporated, Quarter Four, 2021 Earnings Call. (Operator Instruction). It
is my pleasure to introduce to you, `Ann Nicholson, Vice President Investor Relations, Vice President of Investor Relations.
`Ann Nicholson, Vice President Investor Relations `
Thank you, Shannon, good morning, everybody. Welcome to Corning's quarter four 2021 earnings
call. With me today are Wendell Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, `Tony Tripeny, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer,
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Jeff Evenson, Executive Vice President and
Chief Strategy Officer, and Ed Schlesinger, currently serving as Senior Vice President and
Corporate Controller.
I'd like to remind you that today's remarks contain forward-looking statements that fall within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve risks,
uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. These factors
are detailed in the company's financial reports. You should also note that we will be discussing
our consolidated results using core performance measures unless we specifically indicate our
comments relate to GAAP data.
Our core performance measures are non-GAAP measures used by management to analyze the
business. For the fourth quarter, the largest differences between our GAAP and core results stem
from non-cash mark-to-market gains associated with the company's currency hedging contracts,
and non-cash impairment charges. With respect to mark-to-market adjustments, GAAP
accounting requires earnings translation hedge contracts in foreign debt settling in future periods
to be mark-to-market and recorded at current value at the end of each quarter, even though
those contracts will not be settled in the current quarter. For us, this increased GAAP earnings in
Q4 by $86 million. To be clear, this mark-to-market accounting has no impact on our cash flow.Our currency hedges protect us economically from foreign exchange rate fluctuations and
provide higher certainty for our earnings and cash flow, our ability to invest for growth, and our
future shareholder distributions. Our non-GAAP or core results provide additional transparency
into operations by using constant currency rates aligned with the economics of our underlying
transactions. We're very pleased with our hedging program and the economic certainty it
provides. We have received more than $1.8 billion in cash under our hedge contracts since their
inception more than 5 years ago. A reconciliation of core results to the comparable GAAP value
can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website at corning.com. You may also access
core results on our website with downloadable financials in the interactive analyst center.
Supporting slides are being shown live on our webcast. We encourage you to follow along.
They're also available on our website for downloading. And now, I'll turn the call over to Wendell.
`Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you Ann, and good morning, everyone. Today, we reported fourth quarter and full-year
2021 results. We delivered another strong quarter of year-over-year growth. For the fourth
quarter, sales were $3.7 billion, up 12% year-over-year. We generated EPS of $0.54 and free cash
flow of $425 million. For the full-year, sales were $14.1 billion, up 23% year-over-year. We
generated EPS of $2.07 up 49% year-over-year, and we nearly doubled free cash flow. In addition,
we achieved double-digit ROIC, we expanded our operating margin by 230 basis points, we
increased our dividend by 9%, and we reduced our outstanding shares by 5% through the
resumption of share repurchases. By leveraging our fundamental capabilities and our "More
Corning" strategy, we are capturing a compelling only set of short and long-term opportunities
across our portfolio.
We are performing well in a challenging environment and we have momentum entering the year.
Now, all of that said, our gross margin is simply not where it should be. As we said last quarter
throughout the pandemic, we had prioritized protecting our people and delivering for our
customers in a complex inflationary environment and it has come at a cost. Over the last several
months, we had negotiated with customers to increase prices in our long-term contracts to more
appropriately share the increased cost we are experiencing. We are focused on expanding our
gross margin and expect improvement in 2022, as our sales grow and our price actions take hold
throughout the year.
Last quarter, we also discussed our expectations for our display business. I am pleased to report;
we had another strong quarter of display revenues and profits in quarter four. Display glass
pricing is expected to be flat sequentially in the first quarter. The supply demand balance for
display glass is tight. In 2022, we expect overall glass supply to remain tight to balanced and the
pricing environment to remain favorable.
This morning, you'll hear more on these and other priorities for 2022. I'll focus on how we intend
to maintain our growth and positive momentum, then Tony and Ed will discuss our results as well
as our plan to enhance our profitability and overall financial strength.
So let's dive in. We've been delivering consistent growth. Sales have been up for six quarters in a
row. Since 2019, we've grown sales by 21% and EPS by 18% with more balanced and consistent
contributions across our businesses. Everything begins with our cohesive portfolio. We're the
world leader in glass science, ceramic science, and optical physics along with our four proprietary
manufacturing and engineering platforms. We focused our strategy on capturing synergies
among these capabilities and applying them to create disruptive innovations. Across multiple
industries, we work closely with many of the most influential and successful companies to bring all
world-leading capabilities to bear on their toughest challenges.In the process, we helped move the world forward. As we partner with our customers to advance
their visions, our probability of success increases as we combine our capabilities. We apply our
talent and repurpose existing assets. This provides a powerful value creation lever by unlocking
new ways to integrate more of our content into our customers' ecosystems. We aren't exclusively
relying on people buying more stuff; we're driving "More Corning" content into the products
they're already buying. Our progress in 2021 illustrates the effectiveness of our approach, and it
gives us confidence that we're building on a strong foundation for additional growth in 2022.
In optical communications, we return to growth with sales up 22% in 2021 and we expect strong
growth to continue. Operators are expanding network capacity, capability and access. The pace
of data center construction is accelerating as more applications move to the cloud and data
creation continues to soar, and fiber-rich wireless deployments are underway.
Meanwhile, governments around the world are initiating plans to extend the reach of broadband
to more people in more places, as network access is increasingly viewed as a human right. For
example, the recently passed US Infrastructure bill, allocates $65 billion in new spending for
broadband infrastructure, including $42 billion for new network builds. Our customers are stating
their preferences for fiber to build these networks.
As the only large scale end-to-end manufacturer of optical solutions, Corning plays a vital role in
driving the continued expansion of connectivity. We're working even more closely with industry
players at the regional and national levels, including expanding our long time collaboration with
AT&T.
Stepping back, we're at the beginning of large multi-year wave of growth for passive optical
networks. Project momentum is strong across our customer base. And as US Infrastructure plans
roll out, it could add as much as $1 billion a year to the market for four years, starting as early as
2023. We believe, private carrier and public infrastructure investments will push the market into
double-digit growth over the next few years.
In life sciences, we're delivering growth on multiple fronts with sales up 24% in 2021. We're
seeing ongoing demand in support of the global pandemic response. Our inventions are also
helping the industry advance the transition to cell- and gene-based therapies and we're making
progress on our multi-billion dollar content opportunity in our pharmaceutical packaging business.
After introducing Valor glass vials in 2017, we recently introduced Velocity vials. These vials are
helping industry-leading drug makers increase efficiency and throughput to drive faster
manufacturing of vaccines to help meet global demand. Velocity joins Valor and our glass tubing
business as we build a comprehensive end-to-end pharmaceutical packaging portfolio. In fact, our
portfolio has enabled the delivery of nearly 5 billion doses of COVID-19 vaccines so far. And
earlier this week, West Pharmaceutical Services, a global leader in injectable-drug administration,
announced a long-term supply agreement and technology investment in Corning to enhance,
injectable-drug packaging systems.
In automotive, 2021 sales in our environmental technology segment increased 16% to reach an all-
time high $1.6 billion, despite weakness in the automotive market related to chip shortages.
We're pursuing $100 per car content opportunity, driven by trends that are reshaping the auto
industry and re-imagining the car. We delivered multiple proof points in 2021. (inaudible) lodged
the hyperscreen dashboard display in the Mercedes-Benz EQS. the display features a gorilla glass
cover nearly five feet wide. Building on this momentum, we entered a new automotive product
category with our Curved Mirror Solutions. This innovation is enabling the augmented reality
head-up display in Hyundai's electric crossover, the IONIQ 5. And Jeep announced the productthat brings our tough technical glass into their iconic vehicles. The new Jeep performance parts
windshield featuring Gorilla Glass is now a factory installed option on the Wrangler and Gladiator.
Additionally, tighter emissions regulations continue to provide a strong content opportunity for
our environmental solutions. Our newest generation of gasoline particulate filters, help vehicles
including hybrids achieve even lower levels of fine particulate tailpipe emissions. The
contributions of our GPF business provide a strong illustration of our more Corning strategy and
action. Since 2017, environmental technology sales have increased more than 40%, while global
car sales have decreased by 20%.
Let's turn to mobile consumer electronics where 2021 sales increased 7% and we surpassed the
$2 billion in sales for the first time. Since 2016 specialty materials has added nearly $900 million
on a base of $1.1 billion in a smartphone market that has been flat to down. As we help our
customers deliver new value to their users, more of our content is deployed in each device sold,
that is another great illustration of "More Corning" in action.
Our industry-leading innovations continued to garner widespread accolades. In fact, a SaaS
company named Corning the most innovative company in the consumer electronics category for
2021, touting ceramic shield, the world's first transparent and color-free glass ceramic as quote
Virtually Indestructible, end quote and recognizing Gorilla Glass Victus as the Toughest Gorilla
Glass yet. We continue to see strong demand for both of these premium products.
In 2021, more than 125 devices including smartphones, wearables, tablets and laptops launched
featuring Gorilla Glass, and we expanded our capabilities into a new category by introducing
Gorilla Glass with DX and DX plus to optimize mobile phone cameras. These composite
products, create an attractive opportunity to increase our revenue per device.
Finally, in 2021, Apple awarded Corning an additional $45 million from its advanced manufacturing
fund. To-date Corning has received $495 million in total from Apple's fund. We're investing in
multiple new inventions and innovations from mobile consumer electronics, and we're excited
about the potential in 2022 and beyond.
Turning to display, our leadership in large glass puts us in a position of strength. 2021 sales grew
17% to $3.7 billion. Our volume exceeded glass market growth as we ramp Gen 10.5 facilities with
supply glass for large size TVs, which are expected to grow at a high-teens compound annual
growth rate over the next several years. In 2022, we expect overall glass supply to remain tight to
balanced, and the pricing environment to remain favorable. We continue to believe the retail
market will grow led by higher TV unit sales and growth in average screen size.
Across our markets, long-term growth drivers are strong and our role is clear. We lead in
capabilities that are vital to progress. Our approach provides exciting opportunities for Corning
inventions to make a positive impact on the world. And it underscores our commitment to moving
the world forward in everything that we do.
Let me give you some examples outside of the operational context. In 2021, we hosted COVID-
19 vaccination clinics at Corning sites around the world. In Reynosa, Mexico for example, we
helped administer more than 100,000 doses of vaccines and boosters to employees and
community members, and we provided more than 200,000 diagnostic tests for employees
around the world. We kicked off a five-year, $5.5 million partnership with the nation's largest
historically Black University, North Carolina A&T. Our work will prepare students for STEM careers.
We engaged our Board of Directors to provide guidance and resources to our office of racial
equality and social unity, utilizing our members' diverse experience, gender, age and ethnicity toadvance this new initiative. We achieved gender-pay equity globally, for all salaried employees,
and we expanded the reach of our DE&I office with regional business councils.
And finally, we committed to greenhouse gas goals that are aligned with the Paris agreement and
we signed solar contracts with Hemlock that will help the world address its renewable energy
goals. I feel very good about our efforts to bolster quality inside and outside the company and
our progress on our sustainability initiatives.
Overall, we continue to build a stronger more resilient company. We're in the early innings of
exciting industry transformations and key trends are converging around our capabilities. You can
see it in our results; you can see it in our outlook for 2022, and advancement of new businesses
towards significant commercial sales over the next few years.
Of course, to keep advancing during Corning's next 170 years, we must focus on growing and
developing our leaders. We have a new generation, who are stepping up to guide this company
through a very exciting phase of its history and into the future, and I'm working closely with each
of them. To that end, I want to recognize Tony as he prepares to hand over the reins to Ed in just
a few weeks. The strong position we're in today certainly reflects the many contributions he's
made throughout more than three decades of excellent service to Corning. Tony, we thank you
and wish you the very best in retirement.
At the same time, I'm excited to welcome Ed into the CFO role, which he starts on February 18.
Ed has long played a key role in the growth and financial strength of our company. Tony and I
have worked closely with him during that time and I look forward to the important contributions
he will make in this new position.
So, let me turn the call over to Tony and Ed, who will share more details on our results, our
priorities, and our outlook for 2022.
`Tony Tripeny, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Wendell, and good morning, everyone. Our growth initiatives are succeeding and we
delivered another quarter of excellent year-over-year growth that capped off a truly exceptional
year. For the full-year, sales increased 23% and EPS was up 49%. All of our segments grew with
four out of five increasing sales by a double-digit percentage. It was a strong year even
compared to pre-pandemic levels.
Since 2019, we have grown sales by 21% and EPS by 18%. We nearly doubled free cash flow to $1.8
billion, which is a conversion rate of 97% for the year. We achieved double-digit ROIC and we
utilized our strong cash generation to reward shareholders. We increased our dividends 9% and
we reduced our outstanding shares by 5% through the resumption of share repurchases, in so
many dimensions we are feeling great.
That said, as you heard from Wendell, our gross margin percentage is not where it should be. In
the fourth quarter, gross margin was 36.5% down 180 basis points sequentially. As expected
below normal auto production and seasonally lower sales in specialty materials reduced
profitability. In addition, we restarted idle polysilicon capacity to support Hemlock's new, long-
term solar contracts, thus incurring temporary startup cost.
We expect to expand gross margin percent throughout the year. We negotiated pricing increases
in long-term customer contracts to more appropriately share the higher cost that we are
experiencing. These increases take effect and accelerate throughout the year. As always, we
expect to deliver on a robust cost reduction program. The combined benefits of these effortsshould offset the cumulative inflation we experienced over the last year and what we anticipate
for 2022. Our gross and operating margins will also benefit from growing volume. Our operating
leverage is such that additional volume drives good incremental profitability and becomes even
more apparent as we offset inflation. We expect volume increases throughout the year. As our
volumes increase and our pricing actions take effect, our gross margin percent will grow.
As a reminder, the first quarter is usually our lowest volume quarter of the year. We expect
specialty materials to improve on its normal cycle with Q1 typically being the lowest quarter of the
year. Environmental technology sales will improve with the resolution of the chip shortage, which
we expect to happen later in the year and optical communications will grow as we fill the capacity
that we're adding to meet growing demand. For the year, we expect price increases, cost
reductions, and volume growth. Putting this all together, we expect Q1 to be the lowest gross
margin percent quarter of the year and for gross margin to grow from there.
Now, let's take a closer look at performance in each of our businesses, during the fourth quarter
and the full-year. Let's begin with optical communications. Fourth quarter sales were up 7%
sequentially exceeding $1.2 billion. Net income increased 12%. For the full-year, sales grew 22%, to
$4.3 billion and net income was up 51%. We grew significantly faster than the passive optical
market. National and regional carriers increased capital spending on 5G and broadband projects.
Additionally, enterprise sales were up as customers increased spending on data center builds.
Full-year net income grew 51% driven by the incremental volume, despite cost headwinds related
to materials and logistics. We're entering 2022 with a sales run rate 25% higher than where we
started in 2021, and we have a strong order book. We continue to see significant public and
private investments in fiber infrastructure as operators work to expand capacity, capability and
access. And we expect a large multi-year wave of growth. In fact, we believe private carrier and
public infrastructure investments will push the market into double-digit growth. We're adding
capacity to capture the growing demand and we feel really good about our position as the only
large scale end-to-end manufacturer of optical solutions.
Turning to display, in the fourth quarter sales were $942 million, up 12% year-over-year, and net
income was $252 million, up 16% year-over-year. For the full-year, sales were $3.7 billion, up 17%
year-over-year. Net income reached $960 million, up 34% year-over-year. The pricing
environment was favorable throughout the year and our excellent operational performance
allowed us to continue to lead the market.
In the third quarter, we provided detail about our perspective on the display industry based on
three main factors, retail demand, panel makers' production, and glass makers' ability to supply
panel makers. Our fourth quarter performance and first quarter outlook reaffirm our expectations.
We continue to expect that glass at retail will grow in 2022 by high-single digits, driven by TV units
and screen size growth. We expect display glass pricing to be flat sequentially in the first quarter,
and supply demand balance for display glass to be tight. We expect glass supply demand to
remain tight to balanced in 2022, and the pricing environment to remain favorable. Overall, we
are very pleased with display's performance in 2021 and we feel good about our outlook for
2022. We're operating from a position of strength and we intend to build on our momentum as
we move forward.
In environmental technologies, fourth quarter sales were $353 million, down 9% sequentially, and
21% year-over-year. Fourth quarter net income was $54 million, down 10% sequentially and 42%
year-over-year, on lower sales volume. These declines were driven by auto production constraints
created by the semiconductor chip shortage that began in the second quarter of last year. As
expected, this negatively impacted profitability for the segment and the company.Now even with this temporary setback caused by the chip shortage, for the full-year we were
able to deliver double-digit sales growth, enabled by our content-driven growth strategy. Full-year
sales were nearly $1.6 billion, up 16% year-over-year, primarily driven by strength in heavy-duty
diesel and greater adoption of gas particulate filters. For the full-year, net income was $269
million, up 37% year-over-year. As we look ahead, we're confident that our content-driven
approach will continue to drive our performance. And when the automotive market rebounds with
the resolution of the chip shortage, we expect significant growth from current levels.
Turning to specialty materials. Sales were $518 million, down 7% sequentially on normal
seasonality. Sales were down 5% year-over-year versus the strong Q4 in 2020 following the
launch of ceramic shield. Fourth quarter net income was $92 million, down sequentially and year-
over-year, driven by the lower sales volume. Full-year sales were up 7% and exceeded $2 billion,
driven by continued strong sales of premium cover materials. Demand also remained strong for
our advanced optics content used in semiconductor manufacturing as the broader end-market
continues to experience robust growth. Despite sales being up, full-year net income was down as
we invested strongly in new innovations that will be commercialized in the coming year. We have
grown sales every year since 2016 through our "More Corning" approach, despite smartphone
unit sales maturing. Over that five-year period, we've added nearly $900 million in sales on a
base of $1.1 billion.
Looking ahead in 2022 we expect sales to grow faster than our underlying markets, driven by
continuing adoption of our innovations and growth in advanced optics, specifically in products for
EUV lithography. And as I mentioned earlier, we expect sales to increase from the seasonal low
levels, we expect in the first quarter.
And finally, turning to life sciences, we had a great year, with gross sales topping $1.2 billion, up
24% year-over-year. Fourth quarter sales were $317 million, up 16% year-over-year. This strong
performance was driven by ongoing demand to support the global pandemic response,
continued recovery in academic and pharmaceutical research labs, and strong demand for bio-
production vessels and diagnostic related consumables. Full-year net income was $194 million, up
40%. Fourth quarter net income was $49 million, up 17% year-over-year. Looking ahead to 2022,
we expect our strong growth to continue driven by COVID-19 vaccine rollout, strong research
funding, lab utilization returning to pre-pandemic levels, and growth in the bioproduction
segment.
I also want to spend a minute on our other segment. As a reminder, the majority of sales in our
other segment are at Hemlock Semiconductor Group. During the year, Hemlock saw new
demand for solar grade polysilicon. With the increased activity and interest in US-based solar
manufacturing, customers have turned to Hemlock, a leader in polysilicon manufacturing. So in
addition to selling polysilicon for use in semiconductors, Hemlock was able to sell solar polysilicon
from inventory. Going forward, solar remains a strong revenue opportunity for Hemlock. In the
fourth quarter, we signed long-term take-or-pay supply contracts with customer deposits that
start to ship in 2022. As a result we restarted idle capacity with minimal capital investment to
meet this demand. As I mentioned earlier gross margins were impacted in the fourth quarter as
we incurred temporary cost to restart solar polysilicon capacity. This will improve throughout the
year as solar production increases. Additionally, our auto glass and pharmaceutical packaging
emerging businesses are also in the other segment and both businesses significantly grew sales
during the year as well.
Stepping back, we made strong progress across all of our businesses in 2021. We entered new
product categories, announced collaboration with key industry leaders, and contributed to
significant industry advancements. We're building a strong foundation for future growth. Thiscombined with our consistent focus on innovation and deep commitment to RD&E is what
continues to fuel and sustain Corning's leadership position across its markets.
Looking ahead, we expect Corning sales and EPS to grow year-over-year in the first quarter. We
expect sales to be in the range of $3.5 billion to $3.7 billion and EPS in the range of $0.48 to
$0.53. Sales were down sequentially due to typical seasonal volume declines. For the full-year, we
expect sales of approximately $15 billion, and profit to grow faster than sales.
Before I turn things over to Ed, I'd like to take a moment to express my gratitude. First, to all
Corning employees, whose dedication and commitment to this great company is such an
inspiration. Second, to those of you on the call and all our shareholders, for being on this journey
with us, we're working hard every day to maintain your trust and reward your confidence in us.
And finally, I'd like to thank Wendell, Ed, and my fellow members of Corning senior leadership
team, I'm proud to have played a role in building the strong foundation Corning has today, it's
truly been a wonderful journey. As Ed takes the reins in just a few weeks, I'm fully confident in his
ability to build on this foundation and continue creating value for all our shareholders.
With that, I'll turn it over to Ed.
`Edward A. Schlesinger, Senior Vice President & Corporate Controller `
Thanks, Tony, and hello, everyone. I'm looking forward to connecting with you in the days and
months ahead, so we can expand on the thoughts I share today and address any questions you
may have.
Before I start, I'd like to say that it's been an honor working alongside Tony all these years. Under
his tenure, we met or exceeded all the goals of our four-year strategy and capital allocation
framework. And today, we're performing well against the subsequent goals we outlined in our
strategy and growth framework in 2019. Our execution has created a stronger more resilient
Corning and that provided vital -- proved vital as the pandemic unfolded. Our solid footing
enabled us to preserve our financial strength throughout 2020. And it kept us well-positioned for
growth in 2021. Throughout it all Tony's focus on financial stewardship has been central to our
results and I plan to sustain that disciplined approach.
So let me walk through my priorities as CFO, as I work to ensure that Corning continues to be an
excellent steward of capital. We expect another strong year of cash generation in 2022 and our
financial priorities remain unchanged. We will continue to invest our cash to support organic
growth, extend our leadership, and reward shareholders.
First, we will continue to invest for growth, primarily through RD&E and CapEx. RD&E is
fundamental to our long-term success and our allocation will be consistent with previous years. In
2022, we expect to keep CapEx consistent with 2021. Our investments include, adding capacity
to meet growing demand, introduce new innovations, and improve productivity.
Shareholder returns also remain a key priority. In 2022, we expect to increase our dividend per
share by approximately 10% and we expect to continue opportunistic share repurchases, building
on the 5% of outstanding shares we repurchased in 2021. In the near-term, improving gross
margin is my top priority. We expect improvement throughout 2022 as sales grow and our pricing
actions take hold.
Overall, I'll close today saying that I'm optimistic about our growth trajectory for 2022 and excited
to step into the CFO role. We're building on a strong foundation. Our capabilities are relevant to
major trends playing out across the industries we serve. Our "More Corning" approach is working,and we're executing effectively through some very volatile end markets, expanding relationships
and commitments with our customers and extending our leadership position.
Based on the growth drivers and financial priorities you heard this morning, I feel good about
delivering on our expectation to grow sales to $15 billion in 2022 with EPS growing even faster. I
look forward to updating you on our progress throughout the year.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Ann for Q&A. Ann?
`Ann Nicholson, Vice President Investor Relations `
Thanks, Ed. Okay Shannon. We are ready for the first question and I ask that folks please try to
keep it to one question so we can get through as many as we can.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
A - `Ann Nicholson, Vice President Investor Relations `
Thanks, Ed. Okay. Shannon, we are ready for the first question. And I ask that folks please try to
keep it to one question, so we can get through as many as we can.
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from `Wamsi Mohan, BofA Securities with Bank of
America. Your line is open.
Q - `Wamsi Mohan, BofA Securities `
Yes, thank you. When you look at your comments on long-term contracts where you're
negotiating pricing, can you give us some sense of what percent of your revenue is tied into
these contracts? And how should investors think about the bridge to $15 billion in revenues? How
much of that increase would you say is pricing versus content versus market growth? Thank you.
And Tony, thanks for all you've done for Corning. It's been a pleasure working with you.
A - `Tony Tripeny, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Wamsi. I appreciate it.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
So, let's deal with the pricing question first. So first, let's pull out Display for a moment. We
provide glass pricing guidance each and every quarter in Display. And you know that we expect
the pricing environment to remain favorable. And you just received both what happened in
quarter four, which was flat sequential pricing in Display and our guide for flat sequential pricing in
quarter one as well.
As you look at -- let's take now take all of our other segments, OpCo, Life Sciences, Auto and
MCE. If we take them as a whole, we expect price to be up in total dollars year-over-year. Now
each of the businesses is different. There's different types of contracts. And then within each of
those, you have different customers in different positions. So it's hard to reach a generalstatement. But I think as you think about it analytically, basically, we expect prices, as a whole, in
those segments to go up.
Turning to the $15 billion. I think always for us, that you should be thinking about it primarily as
being driven by our growth. The way -- the sort of construct that you heard from Tony is that if
you've looked back at this past year, our -- we had cost inflation much higher than a normal year
of increasing input cost. And when we're looking at the pricing is that we expect to share that
more appropriately with our customers. And the price, together with our more robust cost
reduction, will put us in a position to offset the inflation we've already experienced as well as
what we anticipate for 2022. That then allows the volume growth to drop to the gross margin line
with our normal sort of robustness, and without any sort of friction costs driven by excess
inflation.
So that's the way we tend to think about the $15 billion. That's the way we think about price, cost
and then how it turns into gross margin percentage gains as volume grows and the price actions
take effect.
Q - `Wamsi Mohan, BofA Securities `
Thanks, Wendell.
A - `Ann Nicholson, Vice President Investor Relations `
Next question?
Operator
Our next question from Tim Long with Barclays. Your line is open.
Q - `Timothy Long, Barclays Bank PLC `
Thank you. I wanted to ask on the optical comms business, obviously, pretty strong in the quarter.
Can you talk a little bit, have you already started to see the benefits from the renewed
agreement with AT&T? And looking out at this business, it sounds like you think you could see
double-digit growth in the next several years. So could you talk a little bit about how you see the
margin progression over time? Do you think net margins can get back to levels they were a few
years ago given higher growth and pricing actions as well? Thank you.
A - `Tony Tripeny, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I think the short answer to that is, for sure, we think that margins will expand in this business
for all the reasons that Wendell just explained. I mean, first, we are taking pricing actions here,
that's where a lot of our long-term supply agreements are, and those will roll out through the
year. And then secondly, when you combine it with the volume increase that we expect. So yes,
we expect our margins to increase.
And in terms of AT&T, obviously, they're a very important customer for us, and we continue to
see the benefits from that relationship.
Q - `Timothy Long, Barclays Bank PLC `
Okay. Thank you.
OperatorOur next question comes from Martin Yang with Oppenheimer. Your line is open.
Q - `Zhihua Yang, Oppenheimer & Co. Inc. `
Hi, thank you for taking my question. Can you maybe talk about the cadence for price increase
and their associated margin expansion for the majority of this year? And is there any one quarter
where we should expect most of the pricing impact to be fully accounted for?
A - `Tony Tripeny, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I mean, it's -- Martin, I mean, it's clearly going to roll out at different times at different pace
by customers. We'd expect to see some of it start kicking in, in Q1 and then accelerate from
there. While we'd expect to have happen is Q1 being our lowest quarter from a gross margin
standpoint. And then when you add the sales volume increase that we expect, as we described
how those dynamics work, we'd expect gross margin to expand from there throughout the year.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
The way we tend to think about it cycle-wise is that first quarter will be the lowest amount of
incremental price, then it builds as the year goes on. As more and more of the contracts and
increased pricing go into effect, and as it applies to more volume just following our normal sort of
seasonal cycle in our businesses.
Q - `Zhihua Yang, Oppenheimer & Co. Inc. `
I guess, what I was trying to get at is, is there any potential for the price increase with customers
the effect of that to maybe lingering into 2023 also?
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
It's an excellent question. Like many things, when we wrestle with the issue of inflation, and we try
to figure out how to deal with that problem, we learn things and we develop new tools. I would
say that our customers have been very fair with us, and there have been very favorable
discussions. There's a good mutual understanding that they rely on each other. We're real
partners. We tend not to be transactional with our customers, and our customers aren't
transactional with us.
So the good news is those long-term nature of those relationships mean that each and every
time we evolve that relationship, it tends to last. So, I think it all really depends on what happens
with inflation going forward. The key thematic is that we will own our part with the type of
rigorous cost reduction we normally do. But for these excess costs, this excess inflation, they've
agreed to share that in a more appropriate fashion with us.
Q - `Zhihua Yang, Oppenheimer & Co. Inc. `
Got it. That's perfectly clear. Thank you.
A - `Ann Nicholson, Vice President Investor Relations `
Next question?
Operator
Our next question comes from `Steven Fox, Fox Advisors with Fox Advisors. Your line is open.Q - `Steven Fox, Fox Advisors `
Thanks. Good morning. Tony, congrats on your retirement, and thanks for all your help over the
years. Really appreciate it. In terms of my question, I guess, I was wondering if you guys could dig
into Specialty Materials a little bit more. It sounded like there's some new drivers that's going to
help sales growth this year. Just trying to understand maybe the new versus the more typical
growth of the recent years and then maybe its impact on gross margins for the coming year.
Thanks.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Steve. Thanks, especially for the comments on Tony. I think when you think about
specialty, you're just seeing the inverse of what you see this year in terms of margin. We're
investing in new programs that are stealth in nature. As the spending has gone up, the
investment has gone up as we begin to start to ramp some of those production assets, but
they're not totally stable yet, and we're continuing to invest in the product technology.
And what we expect is as we work our way through this year, those products will get introduced,
they'll start generating revenue, we'll get more efficient in making them, and therefore, they'll
turn into profit -- year-over-year profit gains as we work our way through 2022.
Q - `Steven Fox, Fox Advisors `
So, more of a second half type thing you just said, Wendell?
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Yes. I think more of the second half which is, as you know, tends to be relatively typical in
Mobile Consumer Electronics.
Q - `Steven Fox, Fox Advisors `
Yes. Got it. Thank you.
A - `Ann Nicholson, Vice President Investor Relations `
Great. Next question?
Operator
Our next question comes from John Roberts with UBS. Your line is open.
Q - `John Ezekiel Roberts, UBS Investment Bank `
Thanks. Best wishes as well, Tony, and welcome, Edward. Since we have so much CFO firepower
here on this call. Corning met the earlier financial goals that were laid out, but they didn't include
an ROIC target. And if you look at Slide 38, again, ROIC is only 10%. Do you think we'll have a
focus on that going forward? You've pivoted to focus on gross margin. I don't know if you're
going to pivot maybe to focus on ROIC as well and maybe wrap the capital spending outlook in
with that as well.
A - `Tony Tripeny, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. I mean, I think that if you look back over the last several years, it's actually been a prettystrategy and capital allocation framework. But if you go back to what we talked about in 2019, it
was a very specific commitment to get to at least above 10% level, which I'm really proud of the
fact that we accomplished that in 2021, especially when you think about the challenges from a
pandemic standpoint.
But for sure, continuing to expand ROIC, which is kind of the ultimate measure of profitability, is a
real focus area for us. And so that also remains a high priority from a financial management
standpoint.
A - `Edward A. Schlesinger, Senior Vice President & Corporate Controller `
Yes. I would add, John, that we expect to grow, as we've shared with you and expand our
margins, and we gave you our capital guidance. So, we certainly are focused on ROIC and expect
it to continue to be important for us as we go forward.
Q - `John Ezekiel Roberts, UBS Investment Bank `
Thank you.
A - `Ann Nicholson, Vice President Investor Relations `
Next question?
Operator
Our next question is from `Asiya Merchant, Citigroup Inc. with Citi. Your line is open.
Q - `Asiya Merchant, Citigroup Inc. `
Great. Thank you for the opportunity. And Tony, once again, thank you for all your help. I had a
quick question on margin. I mean, you got some pushback this quarter. I think Tony mentioned
there were some start-up costs that impacted margins this quarter, which as Wendell pointed
out, were underwhelming relative to expectations. My understanding was some of those cost
negotiations and inflationary pressures being passed on to customers were being negotiated in
4Q as well. So where did you get the most pushback on that? And why do you feel so confident
that these inflationary pressures should abate in '22 with the negotiated contract? Thank you.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
So, it wasn't so much -- it's really just a timing question. It wasn't so much of what goes into effect
exactly in Q4, who pushed against us and who did it. Really, it's just -- these are all long-term
contract based. And the reason we have these long-term contracts is that our core value creation
comes from us making product and having a high transformation value driven by our factories.
And the key thing we need to do to drive that ROIC up, and to give good streams of earnings to
our investors is to make sure we derisk that capital investment.
So the good news with that is that the way inflation works is that tends to put some dampening
of the effective inflation on us because of our fixed cost structure being relatively high. But the
downside is that with those long-term contracts, you have to actually sit down and renegotiate
them. So what gives us confidence is we've renegotiated them and reached a formal agreement
with our customers on this is what their pricing will be. So it takes time to do that, to reach
agreement, what is the appropriate sharing. But the good news is, once you reach agreement,
you have agreement and then now we just execute. And that's where we are.Now we're not close with everybody. There's more to do, and that's another reason that some of
it builds through the year.
A - `Edward A. Schlesinger, Senior Vice President & Corporate Controller `
Yes. Sorry, Asiya. With regard to the start-up costs that you mentioned, that was primarily in
Hemlock, and that's actually a pretty exciting thing for us. As you know, when we did the
transaction around Hemlock, in September of 2020, it was primarily based on the semiconductor
market, and we looked at solar as an option. That solar appears to be materializing, and we have
signed long-term contracts, and that's where the start-up costs came from.
A - `Ann Nicholson, Vice President Investor Relations `
Great. Next question?
Operator
Our next question is from `Samik Chatterjee, JPMorgan Chase & Co with JPMorgan. Your line is open.
Q - `Samik Chatterjee, JPMorgan Chase & Co `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question and congrats to Tony and Ed. I was going to just ask on Display
here. Tony, you sounded optimistic about the retail TV environment in 2022. At least in 4Q from
the data we saw -- I mean we haven't seen any positive data points, at least the industry seemed
a bit more bearish or sort of seeing a soft environment in terms of TV retail in 4Q. So what's
really driving in terms of data points and maybe what you're looking at driving that optimism
about TV unit outlook in 2022?
And separately, just on the screen size as well. I mean, some of the recent data shows screen
size increases aren't going up as much as it used to. Is there an inflation-driven change in
consumer behavior where consumers are maybe pulling back a bit in terms of moving to higher
screen sizes? Thank you.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Well, thanks for the question on Display. We think it's really -- it's an important area, because what
we have heard from investors is that a key factor weighing on our stock price is a concern that the
current cycle of downward price in profits in the LCD panel industry would cause a significant
glass price and profit squeeze for Corning.
Now what we said in quarter three is that we believe glass supply-demand balance will be tight.
And therefore, the glass pricing environment will remain favorable. And therefore, we did not
expect a significant reduction in our profit stream.
We now have a quarter four data. Glass price was flat sequentially. Further, we guided that for
quarter one, the glass price will be flat sequentially. Once again, glass supply demand remains
tight. So now we have a more confirmatory evidence to support our belief that the pricing
environment will be favorable in 2022. That, I think, is the core evidence that we're looking at.
Now when you shift to thinking about the market, retail, full glass out in retail overall is like in the
range of what we anticipated, right? And size, we actually expect to do quite well in the coming
year. One of the things that happened sort of during the pandemic is that a lot of smaller screens
were sold, and that tends to be the place where the units we expected to drop off more. Andthey have, which sort of has the effect of also accelerating, if anything, the diagonal growth on
average. That's the way we tend to think about size and retail.
Would you guys have anything to add on that?
A - `Tony Tripeny, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
No, I think that's exactly right. I mean, our expectations for the year really haven't changed.
They're pretty well in line from a unit standpoint with what third-party people in the industry are
looking at. And the screen size, we're very confident in. I mean, 1.5 inch has been pretty
consistent for a very long period of time. And when you look at the growth above 65 inches TVs
over the last year, it just confirms that 1.5 inch. We feel very confident about that.
Q - `Samik Chatterjee, JPMorgan Chase & Co `
Thank you.
A - `Ann Nicholson, Vice President Investor Relations `
Next question?
Operator
Our next question comes from `George Notter, Jefferies with Jefferies. Your line is open.
Q - `George Notter, Jefferies `
Hi, guys. Thanks very much. I guess I wanted to ask about the optical business. Obviously, I think
the bet there is just how fast you guys can expand manufacturing capacity. I saw you grew that
business, obviously, about 6.5% sequentially. So you're making progress. But at the same time,
we hear about how your lead times are nearly two years for high-count fiber cables. So maybe
you could talk about the gating items to expanding capacity there. Is it resin? Is it buildings and
draw towers? Just kind of walk us through what you see. And then last thing, congrats to Tony.
A - `Tony Tripeny, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, George.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Like as you point out, I won't comment on our specific backlog by product line. But as you point
out, if we could make more, we could sell more. And that's why we announced the capacity
expansions that we did last year. And we expect those to ramp as the year goes on. With each of
those capacity expansions, we need to have in place long-term commitments from our
customers. And we have those and that is ramping.
So the real bottleneck isn't resin, isn't raw materials, isn't labor. It is just us being able to get into
place, capacity that is more appropriately balanced to the demand that we are experiencing.
A - `Ann Nicholson, Vice President Investor Relations `
All right. Next question?
OperatorOur next question comes from Rod Hall with Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
Q - `Roderick Hall, Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. `
Yes. Thanks for fitting me in. Congrats, Tony. Great working with you. Best of luck. So I had two
questions, one on Hemlock. The Hemlock commentary on solar, I thought was pretty positive. Do
you have any ideas for growth there in '22 on '21, mid-single digits? Any kind of indication you
could give us for that?
A - `Edward A. Schlesinger, Senior Vice President & Corporate Controller `
Hi, Rod. We're not specifically giving guidance, but what I would say is we've signed a number of
long-term multiyear agreements. We received cash upfront, their take-or-pay agreements. So
we're highly confident that we'll be able to fill the capacity that we have coming online. So you'll
see that expand through the year in 2022.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
One of interesting dynamics that Ann could maybe sit down with you on afterwards Rod, is from
a modeling standpoint. When we did the Hemlock transaction, as you heard from Jeff, we really
stood on the semiconductor business. But we picked up all of those solar capabilities that really is
an option with that, with inventory that we also had is solar grade. And so just through this year,
we sold down a hunk of that inventory, which generated cash nicely. And then now you're really
seeing new solar grade poly sign being made by us with the start-up that you're talking about. So
when you work through the modeling, let's have -- and sit down to provide a little bit of help on
just sort of how that worked.
Q - `Roderick Hall, Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. `
Okay. Great. Thanks, Wendell. And then the buyback is kind of back to the same level it was in
December of 2019. Should we be thinking like we're back into kind of a normalized buyback
regime now?
A - `Tony Tripeny, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Well, for sure, Rod, our approach from a buyback standpoint is first, we generate very strong
operating cash flow. And our first priority is to invest that in our business and our growth and
sustained leadership. And then obviously, once we've done that, we want to return the cash to
shareholders.
As Ed mentioned, we've increased the dividend in 2021, and we expect to increase the dividend
in 2022. And then we'll be opportunistic on buybacks. And we saw Q4 as a really great
opportunity to buy back shares where the stock price was, and we'll continue to pursue buybacks
on an opportunistic basis.
Q - `Roderick Hall, Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. `
Great. Okay. Thanks a lot, Tony. Thank you.
A - `Ann Nicholson, Vice President Investor Relations `
Shannon, let's take one more question, please.
OperatorOur last question is from `Meta Marshall, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.
Q - `Meta Marshall, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thanks. Maybe just a question on environmental. I just wanted to get a sense of clearly,
supply chain is an issue with autos right now, but we hear a lot of like cars that are basically ready
to go and just need a chip. And so just trying to get a sense of when you would expect to see
environmental tick back up? Is it when the supply chain shortage kind of alleviates itself on the
auto market? Or you would need kind of a quarter or two after that to work through kind of
inventory that they may have? Thanks.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
We don't see a significant inventory sort of overhang for our product. One of the reason is that
our demand supply was tight for that product to begin with as we worked our way through the
year. And our content strategy has put a good amount of strain on our ability to supply.
So in general, if you had a point of view on when chips started to come back for auto and as auto
production scale, we would expect to roughly follow that timing.
Q - `Meta Marshall, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Ann Nicholson, Vice President Investor Relations `
Great. Thanks, Meta. All right. Thank you all for joining us today. Before we close, I wanted to let
everyone know that we will attend the SIG 11th Annual Tech Conference on March 4, and the
Morgan Stanley Global Technology, Media and Telecom Conference on March 8. We'll also host
management visits to investor offices in select cities.
Finally, a web replay of today's call will be available on our site starting later this morning. So thank
you all for joining us. Shannon, that concludes our call. Please disconnect all lines.
Operator
This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.