Q4 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Welcome to the Corning Incorporated Quarter Four 2023 Earnings Call. (Operator Instructions) It
is my pleasure to introduce to you `Ann Nicholson, Vice President, Investor Relations, Vice President of Investor Relations.
`Ann Nicholson, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Shannon, and good morning. Welcome to Corning's fourth quarter 2023 earnings call.
With me today are Wendell Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Ed Schlesinger,
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Jeff Evenson, Executive Vice President
and Chief Strategy Officer.
I'd like to remind you that today's remarks contain forward-looking statements that fall within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve risks,
uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. These factors
are detailed in the company's financial reports.
You should also note that we'll be discussing our consolidated results using core performance
measures unless we specifically indicate our comments relate to GAAP data. Our core
performance measures are non-GAAP measures used by management to analyze the business.
For the fourth quarter, the difference between GAAP and core EPS primarily reflected constant
currency adjustments, realized gains, and unrealized non-cash mark-to-market losses on
translated earnings contracts, and non-cash translation losses on Japanese-yen-denominated
debt, as well as restructuring and asset write-off charges.
As a reminder, these mark-to-market accounting has no impact on our cash flow. A reconciliation
of core results to the comparable GAAP value can be found in the Investor Relations section of
our website at corning.com. You may also access core results on our website with downloadable
financials in the Interactive Analyst Center. Supporting slides are being shown live on our webcast,
and we encourage you to follow along. They're also available on our website for downloading.And now, I'll turn the call over to Wendell.
`Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Ann. Good morning, everyone. Today, we reported fourth quarter and full year 2023
results. Sales for the fourth quarter were $3.3 billion, and EPS was $0.39 in-line with expectations.
Free cash flow was $0.5 billion. Gross margin was 37% consistent with the third quarter despite
lower sequential sales.
As I shared with you last quarter, demand in most of our markets is temporarily depressed due to
supply chain corrections and macroeconomic factors, therefore, our sales are well below long-
term trends. Nevertheless, the actions we took to improve our profitability and cash flow
generation throughout 2023 are evident in our financial performance. And based on detailed
assessments, we are confident that we have extended our leadership positions across our
markets.
While our current sales are below trend, we expect that to change in the mid-term as our
markets begin to normalize. This creates an opportunity for us to increase our sales by more than
$3 billion when that happens. As we capture that growth, we expect to deliver powerful
incrementals because we already have the required production capacity and technical capabilities
in place, and the cost is already reflected in our financials.
The incremental profit and cash flow annuity created by increasing sales by $3 billion-plus is a
terrific opportunity for our shareholders, and we expect to start making progress towards
realizing that opportunity in 2024. Now, it's difficult to call the specific timing of a recovery, but we
continue to see signs that it will occur in 2024. As a result, we expect the first quarter to be our
low quarter of the year.
So, that's a summary of where we are and how we seek to create value in the medium term. I'd
like to provide some additional facts and perspective. At the start of 2023, we introduced plans
to improve profitability and cash flow in this lower-demand environment. Throughout the year, we
took action to restore our productivity ratios to historical levels and to raise price to more
appropriately share inflation with our customers.
I'm happy to report we delivered on our plans. When you look at our fourth quarter results on a
year-over-year basis, the evidence of our progress is quite clear. We increased gross margin by
330 basis points and free cash flow by $110 million to $0.5 billion despite sales being down by
more than $350 million. Our profitability and productivity improvements led to significantly
improved free cash flow conversion and we expect to continue converting profit to cash at
attractive rates going forward.
Overall, our results in the quarter and throughout 2023 demonstrate that we continue to make
solid progress advancing our market leadership, strengthening our profitability, and improving our
cash flow generation even in the lower-demand environment we're experiencing. As a result,
we're entering this year operationally strong. Now, we intend to build on this strength.
As I previously mentioned, we have an opportunity to increase our sales by more than $3 billion in
the medium-term. Let's take a deeper look as to why we believe this. I shared a bit of how we're
thinking about optical communications on the last call. I'll start there again today because it's a
significant part of our opportunity. We anticipate optical communications sales will spring back
because we believe -- and our carrier customers have confirmed that they purchased excess
inventory during the pandemic and that they've been utilizing this inventory to continue deploying
their networks. We believe these carriers will soon deplete their inventory and execute on theincreased broadband deployment plans they've communicated to us over the last several
months. As a result, we expect them to return to their normal purchasing patterns to service their
deployments.
We also continue to expect BEAD funding for network builds in underserved areas to begin in the
second half of 2024 and continue adding to our addressable market for several years.
Additionally, we expect to grow hyperscale sales in support of the growing role of cloud
computing and the need to build the second optical network necessary to directly connect the
GPUs that drive artificial intelligence. Last quarter, I shared trendlines for fiber shipments, which
showed that we are significantly below trend, and outlined why we expect our sales to get back
on trend.
I'd now like to update you on progress during the fourth quarter. Here you see Corning's fiber
shipments measured in fiber kilometers since the beginning of 2007. The trendline shows a 7.3%
compound annual growth rate over the last decade compared to a 6.6% CAGR for industry fiber
shipments over the same period. As I explained during our third quarter call, our fiber shipments
in quarter one of 2023 were basically in-line with expected market trends but started to drop
below our trendline in quarter two and even more so in quarter three with our shipments more
than 30% below trendline, primarily due to elevated carrier inventory levels.
We now have another quarter of data to share. In the fourth quarter, we saw a small uptick in fiber
shipments, but they remain more than 30% below trend. More importantly, our regular sit-downs
with key customers indicate that they are deploying at a higher rate than they are purchasing, as
they continue to make progress on drawing down inventory. Additionally, they have plans to
increase deployments in 2024. We look forward to updating you on takeaways from our next
round of sit-downs. We're also seeing encouraging signs of hyperscale. Overall orders grew in
the fourth quarter and we're seeing the earliest edge of AI-related network builds in our order
books.
Returning to trend adds more than 40% to our revenue run rate for optical communications, and
we are laser-focused on doing just that. Beyond that, we expect the strong underlying growth
trend to continue far into the future and our sales to grow faster than the market through More
Corning innovations. Optical fiber remains the ascendant technology with growing applications in
wireless, cloud computing, including AI, and broadband efforts to connect the unconnected. As
those applications grow, we have new product innovations in each that will increase our revenue
per installed fiber. Government incentives to ensure everyone has internet access also extend
the long-term trendline.
Display provides another example of how our sales will spring back. Retail sales during the fourth
quarter selling season were softer than industry expectations. Panel makers responded by
reducing their fourth quarter utilization levels. Additionally, industry reports indicate that panel
makers plan to run at lower utilization levels in the first quarter, as they continue to align panel
supply to demand with Fab shutdowns planned during the Lunar New Year holidays in February.
For the first quarter of 2024, we expect the glass market and our volume to be down by a mid-
single-digit percentage sequentially. For the full year of 2024, our expectations are in-line with the
industry. We anticipate relatively flat television unit volume, another year of TV screen size
growth, and some recovery in PC demand. Combined, this adds mid-single-digit growth in glass
volume at retail versus 2023. We expect panel maker utilization to increase after the first quarter
to meet the expected retail demand. As a result, we expect our financial performance to
significantly improve from our first quarter run rate.Longer-term, we expect continued volume growth in retail to be mainly driven by television
screen size growth, as it has the past several years, and for some improvement in units as
consumer demand normalizes. Well, we expect a win in this market because we are the
undisputed technology leader. Our successful development and capability in Gen 10.5 aligns with
the continued move to larger-size TVs produced on the lowest cost platforms for large displays.
Life Sciences is another segment where market normalization contributes significantly to our
expected growth. Customers in North America and in Europe are completing their inventory
drawdowns. We are continuing our productivity and operations improvements, and we're
refocusing our commercial and production efforts on drug discovery and production as the
market returns. We also continue to evolve our products and business model for Vials in our
pharmaceutical technologies business. In addition to markets returning to normal, we continue to
execute our More Corning content opportunities across the company.
In mobile consumer electronics and automotive, we see More Corning as the primary growth
mechanism. Let's look first at mobile consumer electronics. Since 2016, handhelds have declined
21%, while our sales of Gorilla Glass have increased 41%. Now, we've done this by advancing the
state of the art for cover materials, and this is just a classic More Corning play. We have a strong
innovation portfolio in support of our close collaborations with leading OEMs, and we expect to
continue delivering new products that increase our content per device. You saw a great example
of this earlier in January in our announcement with Samsung about Corning Gorilla Armor, which
dramatically enhances sunlight readability and scratch resistance.
Extreme ultraviolet lithography, or EUV, a market we serve with our advanced optics products, is
another great, More Corning opportunity. We are the market leader for the photomask and
mirror materials of choice for GPUs and other advanced semiconductors. In automotive,
proposed U.S. EPA regulations would require adoption of gasoline particulate filters and provide
an incremental driver of demand for our market leading GPF offerings. In terms of More Corning,
GPF adds 2x to 3x the content opportunity in ICE vehicles. This would mean significant growth in
our environmental business, even in the face of global BEV adoption. Additionally, we're winning
both interior and exterior auto glass business as customers increasingly view our solutions to be
system-enabling components.
As I wrap up, here's what I'd like to leave you with. A majority of our markets are operating below
trend, and as a result, our 2023 full year sales are down from the prior year. In this lower-demand
environment, we have successfully taken actions to improve our profitability and cash flow, and
we believe we have extended our leadership positions across our businesses. We are confident
that our markets will normalize, and as they do, we have an opportunity to increase our annual
sales by more than $3 billion.
As we capture that growth, we expect to deliver powerful incrementals since the required
capacity and technical capabilities are already in place and the costs are already in our financials.
This represents a terrific opportunity for our shareholders. We expect to make progress on this
opportunity in 2024, and we believe the first quarter is our low quarter of the year.
Well, it's difficult to call this specific timing of a recovery. We will continue our regular
engagements with our large optical customers to review their recent deployments in detail and
better understand their plans for deployments in 2024 and beyond. Following the Lunar New
Year, we'll have similar meetings with our display customers. And we look forward to updating
you in the next few months at Investor conferences on our learnings and our progress.As I conclude, I'd like to remind you that the essence of what we do here at Corning is invent,
make, and sell. We drive durable multi-year growth by inventing category-defining products,
developing scalable manufacturing platforms, and building strong, trust-based relationships with
our customers who are the leaders in their industries.
Now, I'll turn the call over to Ed so that he can get into the details of our results and our outlook.
`Edward A. Schlesinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Wendell, and good morning, everyone. I will start by summarizing a few key
takeaways, and then I'll move to the fourth quarter results.
Our full year sales were $13.6 billion, down 8%, reflecting our markets being well below long-term
trends. Despite the lower sales, we improved profitability and cash flow by restoring productivity
ratios back to historical levels and offsetting inflation by raising prices. As a result, in the fourth
quarter of 2023, we expanded gross margin by 330 basis points versus the fourth quarter of
2022 despite sales being down by more than $350 million and we grew free cash flow
sequentially every quarter from first quarter levels.
As you heard from Wendell, we have an opportunity to increase our sales by more than $3 billion
in the medium-term as our markets normalize. And we have in place the necessary production
capacity and technical capabilities to service that growth. Our operations and finance teams are
collaborating closely on processes and tools to ensure that we capture the growth and operating
leverage required to deliver significant incremental profit and cash flow. We expect to make
progress during 2024.
Moving to fourth quarter results. Sales were $3.3 billion, gross margin was 37%, EPS was $0.39,
and free cash flow was $487 million.
Now let me provide some details on our segment results. In optical communications, sales for the
fourth quarter were $903 million, down 2% sequentially, primarily reflecting temporarily lower
demand from carrier customers as they continue to draw down inventory. Net income for the
quarter was $88 million, down 3% sequentially on the lower volume. Longer-term, we remain
confident that optical communications market will normalize. We believe that the industry's
underlying growth drivers are intact, specifically broadband, 5G, cloud computing, and advanced
AI. We will also benefit from public infrastructure investments to help connect the unconnected
and bring broadband to a much larger share of the U.S. population. And from an order rate
perspective, we are beginning to see green shoots in the hyperscale data center space.
Moving to display technologies. Fourth quarter sales were $869 million, down 11% sequentially.
The remainder of our second-half price increases, partially offset a sequential volume decline that
was consistent with the market. Retail results during the fourth quarter selling season were softer
than industry expectations. Panel makers responded by reducing their fourth quarter utilization
levels. Additionally, industry reports indicate that panel makers plan to run at lower utilization
levels in the first quarter as they continue to align panel supply to demand with Fab shutdowns
planned during the Lunar New Year holidays in February.
For the first quarter of 2024, we expect the glass market and our volume to be down by a mid-
single-digit percentage sequentially. For the full year of 2024, our expectations are in-line with the
industry. We anticipate relatively flat television unit volume, another year of TV screen size
growth, and some recovery in PC demand.This adds mid-single-digit growth in glass volume at retail versus 2023. We expect panel maker
utilization to increase after the first quarter to meet the expected retail demand growth. As a
result, we expect our financial performance to significantly improve from our first quarter run rate.
Moving to pricing. We successfully executed a double-digit price increase at our customers in the
second-half of 2023. We expect the pricing environment to remain favorable with glass supply
balanced to demand as display glass makers reduced capacity in 2023. We expect our Q1 2024
glass prices to be consistent with Q4 of 2023.
In specialty materials, sales in the fourth quarter were $473 million, down 16% sequentially,
following strong third quarter sales of our smartphone cover materials in support of customer
product launches. Net income was $58 million, down 19% sequentially, reflecting the lower
volumes.
In environmental technologies, fourth quarter sales were $429 million, down 4% sequentially,
reflecting normal seasonality. Net income was $98 million, consistent sequentially. For the full year,
sales increased 11% to $1.8 billion, outpacing the automotive market recovery. Our content driven
growth strategy and increased GPF adoption due to mid-year implementation of China 6B
regulations led to our outperformance.
In life sciences, sales in the fourth quarter were $242 million, up 5% sequentially. Customers in
North America and Europe are completing their inventory drawdowns. Additionally, productivity
improvements allowed us to improve service levels to better supply the market as it normalizes.
Net income improved sequentially to $17 million, up 31%, resulting from higher volume and
productivity improvements.
Turning to Hemlock and Emerging Growth businesses. Sales in the fourth quarter were $356
million, up 9% sequentially, primarily reflecting higher semiconductor polysilicon volume.
Now let's turn to our outlook. We expect sales in the first quarter of approximately $3.1 billion. We
expect EPS in the range of $0.32 to $0.38. The improvements we made in profitability and cash
flow will continue to deliver benefits in 2024. We expect gross margin in the first quarter of '24 to
be similar to the fourth quarter of 2023 despite lower sales and to improve first quarter free cash
flow by $200 million to $300 million versus the first quarter of 2023.
We expect the first quarter to be our low quarter. We believe we are going to grow from these
levels for the following reasons. In optical communications, we expect carriers to complete
inventory drawdowns and increase deployments throughout the year. We also see orders
increasing from hyperscale data center customers. In display, we expect panel maker utilization to
increase from first quarter levels to meet expected full year retail demand. In life sciences, we
expect markets to continue normalizing, and we plan to deliver More Corning content
opportunities in mobile consumer electronics and environmental technologies.
Now, I'd like to take a minute to address currency exchange rates. As a reminder, we have
actively hedged our foreign currency exposure over the past decade. This serves as an effective
tool to reduce earnings volatility, protect our cash flow, enhance our ability to invest, and protect
shareholder returns. We're very pleased with our hedging program and the economic certainty it
provides. We have received more than $2.5 billion in cash under our hedge contracts since their
inception. Our largest exposure is the Japanese yen. As we've previously shared with investors,
we have most of our 2024 yen exposure hedged. We plan to keep our yen core rate at JPY107
through the end of 2024.As we look ahead, we are actively working to improve our hedge coverage for 2025. The yen
forward curve works in our favor. If you go out one year, the forward yen rate is about JPY7
stronger than today's spot rate. Out two years, it's about JPY12 stronger, and so on. Also, the
current yen spot rate is significantly weaker than the 30-year average of approximately JPY110.
So, we believe there will be an opportunity to place additional long-term hedges at more
attractive rates. And in combination with hedging, we can institute an industrial solution, like
pricing increases for display glass, the first step of which we took in 2023. So that's how we think
about it. It will either solve in the currency markets in a reasonable timeframe or will move to an
industrial solution.
Now before I wrap up, I want to spend a minute on our priorities to maintain a strong and efficient
balance sheet and return excess cash to shareholders. We ended the year with $1.8 billion in cash.
We've created one of the longest debt tenors in the S&P 500. Our current average debt maturity
is 23 years with only $1.4 billion in debt coming due in the next five years and no significant debt
coming due in any given year. And essentially all of our debt instruments are fixed rate.
Additionally, we prioritize returning excess cash to shareholders. We have consistently done this
including throughout the pandemic. And one of the ways we do that is through dividends. We
have grown our dividend 40% since 2019. And our dividend yield is top quartile in the S&P 500.
We will propose that our board maintains a quarterly dividend of $0.28 in the first quarter and we
will continue to be opportunistic on share repurchases.
Now, here's what I want to leave you with today. We are entering the year operationally and
financially strong. We expect the first quarter to be the low quarter of the year. We have an
opportunity to capture $3 billion-plus in sales over the medium term as markets normalize and we
capture More Corning content opportunities. As we do, we are positioned to capture significant
incremental profit and cash flow because we have the capacity and capabilities in place and the
costs are already in our financials.
I look forward to updating you on our progress. And now, I will turn things back over to Ann.
`Ann Nicholson, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Ed. Shannon, we're ready for our first question.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. (Operator Instructions). Our first question comes from the line of `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group with
SIG. Your line is now open.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group `
Yes. Thanks for taking my question. I joined the call late, so I apologize if you already covered this
in a prepared remark. But can you give us an update on CapEx clearance for this year and how
you see your cash flows are shaping out throughout the year? And to what extent, when should
we expect the company to become more active in the buyback program? And have a follow-up.
A - `Edward A. Schlesinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `Sure. Thanks, Mehdi, for your question. So, first of all, we expect our CapEx in 2024 to be about
$1.2 billion below our 2023 levels. As we mentioned, we have the capacity in place to deliver what
we expect to be a significant sales opportunity, so we don't necessarily need to add a lot on
CapEx.
With respect to cash flow, what I shared was that we -- our guiding Q1 to be about $200 million to
$300 million better than the prior year, better than Q1 of 2023, and we expect to continue to
make progress on profitability and cash flow as our sales come back.
And then I think your last I think your last question was around buybacks. Okay, yes. So, we'll -- we
-- of course, we always prioritize in returning cash excess, cash to shareholders, and we will
continue to look to do that through both our dividend and buybacks. I don't have anything specific
to report right now on buybacks.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group `
Okay. Sorry for multi-part first question, but just if I may quickly squeeze the second question. In
the -- in the optical business, have you seen any change to increasing broadband access? Is there
any update on the BEAD's program you can share with us, or BEAD's contribution?
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
So, we continue to expect BEAD funding, really to start to translate into demand, the beginning
of it, sort of late this year. They are progressing with awarding the grants, and it'll just take a bit
for those to turn into real programs, so we expect sort of late this year.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group `
Got it. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Wamsi Mohan, Bank of America Securities with Bank of America. Your
line is now open.
Q - `Wamsi Mohan, Bank of America Securities `
Yes, thank you. I was wondering, Wendell, if you could characterize sort of mid-term, as you think
about the $3 billion opportunity that you're talking about incrementally? And can you give us
some sense of how you see that opportunity across your segments? It sounds like you're --
probably most of that is going to be optical, given the magnitude of inventory correction there,
but would love any color you can share on that.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Thanks, Wamsi. So, as you would expect, well, we expect the markets to normalize at a
different rate depending on the market. And then we expect our More Corning pieces to come in
in timing with the particular innovation. So, those we'll have some markets that will begin this year,
and we'll have some which will make even more progress as time goes on. When we say mid-
term, by and large we mean that within the next three years that we will see all of it, right? But
we'll start to see it beginning to happen sooner in different markets. Does that make sense,
Wamsi? Is that responsive to your question?
Q - `Wamsi Mohan, Bank of America Securities `Yes. That's helpful. And, Wendell, would you say that the off the $3 billion incremental, half of it is
optical, more than that is optical? How would you define sort of, how do you break that out
across your segments?
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. So it's a little harder to answer that because the actual opportunity between our markets
returning to normal and our More Corning activities is larger than the three. So -- and then we
discount back to what we're talking to you about, right? And so therefore, when you do the
relative shares, it gets non-trivial to figure out. But I think, Wamsi, your fundamental graph that the
biggest individual mover will be that 40% up opportunity in optical. I think your own thought
processes here are really solid.
Q - `Wamsi Mohan, Bank of America Securities `
Thanks, Wendell. Sorry, if I could just ask one clarifying question on your comment around price or
Ed's comment on price as a lever to offset potentially the currency movement. You've done a
great job using your contracts with some of your customers on display, such that you've been a
price taker, and it's kind of eliminated a lot of the price competition for share reasons. Should we
think that that regime has sort of ended and now we're in a new regime where you are willing to
force pricing and not be a price taker anymore? Thank you.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
So I'm not positive I understand your question, but let me tell you how we tend to think about
pricing and display, right, and really sort of ties back to Ed's commentary around the yen. You've
seen us do, really, across our whole platform, that we have sought to share inflation more
appropriately with our customers, and that has led us to be a price increaser across our company,
and that has helped us improve our profitability. In display, we've been doing that, perhaps more
importantly, is almost the reverse of that.
What has happened with the yen being so well below its sort of 130 year, that mean it's a 30-
year average is that our customers are getting a lower price real in yen, right, while they sell in
dollars. And we're fundamentally seeking to share that more appropriately with our customers.
And so what we say is, like, either the yen will come back sometime here in the reasonable point
of time, right, or we will raise price to provide an industrial solution to have us be in a position
where we can continue to earn the appropriate return on our invested capital in display that our
shareholders expect rightly.
So, what Ed's commentary there on pricing has to do with is really tying around the totality of that
situation and how our customers experience their price since we price in yen. Does that make
sense to you, sir?
Q - `Wamsi Mohan, Bank of America Securities `
Yes. It does, Wendell. Thank you so much.
A - `Ann Nicholson, Vice President, Investor Relations `
All right. Next question?
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Asiya Merchant, Citigroup with Citi. Your line is now open.Q - `Asiya Merchant, Citigroup `
Great. Thank you for taking my question. On optical, if I may, it seems like there was an order
uptick or some sort of a demand uptick that you mentioned in 4Q. If you could drill down one
more into that, if that was from your service provider or cloud customers? And then looking
ahead into 1Q, what should we be expecting for optical here, better than seasonal trends? And
again, if you could drill down if you're seeing that from your service provider or cloud customers?
Thank you.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Really excellent question. So, first, that tick up you see, right, in our data isn't big enough yet for
us to go, oh, yes, it's happening the way we expect, right? It's encouraging, but it's too small for
us to over conclude something analytically, right? Anecdotally, the conversations with our
customers and what we can see from their data is that they are deploying at higher rates for
carrier customers to get to your question of where is it. They continue to deploy in those
numbers at higher rates than their purchases. So they continue to draw down numbers in that
piece.
I think the other -- now moving beyond just that fiber shipment data, right, what else are we
seeing? We are beginning to see the tick-up already in hyperscale in our order book, not yet in
those shipments that you see in that data. So there's an area where we're starting to get nice
confirmatory to our anecdotal understanding of what will need to happen with these new
generative AI networks. And we're seeing sort of the cloud and the beginning, the leading edge
of that second optical network that will need to get built to do these generative AI programming.
So that is what we're seeing in more of the detail.
It's just too early yet for us to over conclude and call timing. We'll know more in the coming
months. And as Ed and Jeff and Ann are out there speaking with you all, they'll make sure they
share as we learn more. Does that work for you?
Q - `Asiya Merchant, Citigroup `
Yes. Great. And if I may, on display as well. I think it's tough to call when these panel makers come
back with their utilization levels off of the 1Q downtick that you guys have talked about and I think
industry has talked about. But if the retail volume happens to be, let's say, mid to high-single-
digits from a glass perspective, and you're already starting the year with healthy inventory levels,
is it reasonable to assume like a sharp snapback in 2Q and 3Q? Any color there would be helpful.
Thank you.
A - `Jeffrey Evenson, Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer `
Yes. Asiya, I'll take that one. And I won't give you a specific quarter. I think that's hard to call. But if
you think about the Q1 panel maker utilization levels and a mid-single-digit glass market for the
year, you would need to see a double-digit increase from their current levels in Q1 to achieve that
glass market. And even if the glass market were lower than that, let's just say even flat, you
would still need to see a double-digit increase from their Q1 level.
So, I think the answer to the sharp part of your question is yes. The timing is obviously harder to
call.
Q - `Asiya Merchant, Citigroup `Okay. Thank you.
A - `Ann Nicholson, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Next question?
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Meta Marshall, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Your line is now
open.
Q - `Meta Marshall, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thanks. Maybe doubling down on Wamsi's question, just around whether you've seen with
the pricing increases on the display business, any changes in share, or has it largely played out as
expected? And then maybe just second question, on the gross margin stability that you expect
into Q1, is that from kind of efficiencies that you found in the business over the last year that are
just starting to play in, or kind of the pricing increases on the display business, or is that from a
mix of the business? Just how to think about that stability in Q1 over Q4? Thanks.
A - `Edward A. Schlesinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Hi, Meta. I'll start with your second question on gross margin. So I think if you think about what
we've done throughout 2022, we improved our productivity across all of our factories significantly
and back to historical levels, best demonstrated levels. That's improved our gross margin. We've
also raised prices, and we're now sort of right side up versus inflation.
So, that's improved gross margin, and we've certainly taken out some costs as well. So we're
able to run at a much more efficient level, even at a lower volume -- in a lower volume
environment. That's allowed us to hold our gross margin. And we're also managing OpEx well. So
that actually helps on the operating margin line, and that's what's allowed us to increase gross
margin through the year despite sales falling. And that's why we feel confident around the gross
margin or operating margin or both as we go into 2024.
And I apologize, can you repeat the first --
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
I understood the first question. Did our -- is I think, what --
Q - `Meta Marshall, Morgan Stanley `
Just share on as a result of price increase.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Did our price increase lead to a disturbance of our market position? And we see no significant
change in our market position as a result of our pricing actions to share more appropriately where
the yen is at and where inflation is at.
Q - `Meta Marshall, Morgan Stanley `
Yes. Great. Thank you.
A - `Ann Nicholson, Vice President, Investor Relations `Next question?
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Martin Yang, Oppenheimer & Co. with Oppenheimer. Your line is now open.
Q - `Martin Yang, Oppenheimer & Co. `
Hi. Good morning. Thank you for taking my question. First question on display. Have you ever
done an analysis similar to the chart you presented on optical fiber, thinking of a normal trend line
for display volume in relation to current weakness on retail, particularly in China? China has been
weak for quite a few years now. Are we significant below the trend line if there is such a more
normal retail demand?
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Excellent question. The answer is yes, we have done those, and we'd be happy to share those.
We'll put that on our list to do at some point in time this year. To be a little more responsive to
the specifics of your question, China is just behaving a little differently than what you would
normally expect on display demand as a country goes through its development cycle. And you
are right, it seems to be net underperforming.
We are not counting on in the dialogue that we've been having with you about the $3 billion
spring that we have. We are not counting on China, quote-unquote, sort of reverting to a more
traditional demand cycle. We're continuing to expect that to be relatively below trend for the
foreseeable future. Does that make sense to you, Martin?
Q - `Martin Yang, Oppenheimer & Co. `
Yes, definitely. Thank you. I have another question on specialty. Given that the semi-exposure
within specialty has been pretty strong, has that changed that segment seasonality a little bit,
where it was more exposed to smartphone cycle and now do you think that has shifted a little
bit?
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
I still think that the biggest thing that drives the seasonality or the different demand in different -- I
don't even know if to call it seasonality. The different demand in different quarters is major
product launches, and also major product launches, not only of our customers, but also of us
introducing a major new category defining product. And any sort of real analysis of this sort of
points to it's the product, right. So I don't know that we can over conclude much beyond that yet,
Martin?
Q - `Martin Yang, Oppenheimer & Co. `
Got it. Thank you. That's all for me.
A - `Ann Nicholson, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Great. Thank you. Next question?
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Samik Chatterjee, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. with J.P Morgan. Your line is nowQ - `Samik Chatterjee, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. `
Hi. Thanks for taking my questions and thanks for all the color today on the call. Maybe just the
way I'm interpreting your comment about $3 billion opportunity that you have in front of you is,
let's say hypothetically, the markets do recover by 4Q of this year, your exit run rate on a
quarterly revenue will be somewhere close to $4 billion, and maybe just help us sort of then
range-bound some of the -- sort of the revenue opportunities here in terms of if you don't see a
macro improvement by the end of the year, what is sort of the exit run rate for the year if you just
have the seasonal improvements that you've talked about from 1Q onwards without a material
macro improvement, that hopefully gives us some sense of where the potential outcomes are
here in terms of exiting the year?
And then a quick follow-up, I guess, Wendell, you mentioned BEAD a few times in the visibility
here that it starts late in 2024. One of the suppliers reporting this morning as well is pushing out
some of that expectation to early 2025, saying things are a bit -- looking a bit more delayed than
usual. Just any more color on what's sort of driving the confidence that it's more 2024 than 2025?
Thank you.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. I think perhaps my emphasis was a little wrong in talking about BEAD. So we expect it
to start is -- what I was trying to say. It's not going to be a big mover in 2024. I think your
understanding is correct. It starts to become a much bigger mover in 2025. So if I created any
dissonance with that understanding that you had, I didn't mean to. I think you have a correct
understanding of it. It's just that it has been not there and now it's going to be there beginning in
2024, but the bulk of it starts after that.
A - `Jeffrey Evenson, Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer `
And, Samik, I'll take the first part of your question. I want to start by just talking a little bit, we did it
in our prepared remarks and a little in Q&A, on the drivers of why we grow and why we think our
first quarter is the low quarter.
I think in Optical, as carriers continue to deplete their inventory, that will come to an end even if
they don't increase their deployment rates, which we think they will. But even if they don't, that is
a good demand driver for us that will start at some point this year, okay? In Display, we talked
about panel maker, utilization being really low in the first quarter and needing to sort of spring up
from that level quite significantly. And then in Life Sciences, we're seeing market normalization in
North America and Europe, and we actually started to see a little bit of that happening even in
the fourth quarter, right? So those drivers, we expect to bring our run rate up significantly as we
go through the year.
The timing is really hard to call, and so I think sitting here today, I would not want to leave you with
a specific guide for the fourth quarter or how we exit the year, but just that we believe Q1 is the
low. And if we got to levels like you spoke about, okay, that'd be awesome. And we would be
well on our way to that $3 billion that Wendell talked about. But even if we don't, we still feel very
confident in that window of time that Wendell shared earlier. Does that help?
Q - `Samik Chatterjee, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. `
Yes. No. Thank you. Thanks for the color. Thank you for taking the questions.
OperatorThank you. Our next question comes from the line of Josh Spector with UBS. Your line is now
open.
Q - `Joshua Spector, UBS Securities
Yes. Hi. Good morning. Two quick ones. First, just on the FX side of it, understanding you're
hedging at a lower spot rate today when you look out to '25 and you have some industrial
options, is there really a timing or milestone we should be looking at at some point this year
where you would know what the impact might be in 2025, be it you're doing some pricing actions
you have hedging locked in, and then you might communicate what that impact would be to us?
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
Q - `Joshua Spector, UBS Securities
You're not willing to share roughly when that timing would be?
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
I thought the straight -- I thought you'd take yes.
Q - `Joshua Spector, UBS Securities
I'll push a little further.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, and no, we're not going to share what timing we will.
Q - `Joshua Spector, UBS Securities
All right. Fair enough.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
It's too involved with our customers. I'm not being non-responsive. That's why I really do think the
yes is about right. This is super important with our customers. And so we want to get that pretty
well advanced and have a high confidence of where we're going to end up before we share that
with our shareholders, right, so that we can make sure we're as accurate as possible. So I'm not
going to give ourselves an exact timeline, but this year, you can expect us to do that.
Q - `Joshua Spector, UBS Securities
Got it. No, I appreciate that. And just quickly on free cash flow. In the first quarter, your guidance
of up a few hundred million. It would seem that's a pretty low bar given that there was about $0.5
billion of working capital use last year and your expectation on margins are relatively flat. So are
there any offsets we should be considering in the first half of the year that maybe make that a
little bit less favorable than what we could see otherwise?
A - `Edward A. Schlesinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
I don't think so. I think we expect to have a nice year on free cash flow for the year. Nothing
specific I would call out.Q - `Joshua Spector, UBS Securities
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Ann Nicholson, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Okay. We can do one more question.
Operator
Our last question comes from the line of Matt Niknam with Deutsche Bank. Your line is now open.
Q - `Matthew Niknam, Deutsche Bank `
All right. Thanks for squeezing me in. I'll keep it fairly brief. On the $3 billion incremental sales
opportunity, maybe for -- a question for Ed. Can you just walk us through the incremental, gross
and operating margins this would come in at? And is it safe to assume there's minimal
incremental CapEx here? But just trying to understand, is this more an opportunity to scale past
existing OpEx or is there a gross margin accretion opportunity as well?
And then this may be a more open-ended question, but on the macro, relative to the last call
three months ago, maybe for Wendell, any material changes in customer demand or spending
plans across key verticals, i.e., what's really changed, would you say, if at all, over the last three
months in terms of customer demand or customer conversations you're having? Thanks.
A - `Edward A. Schlesinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I'll go first, Matt, on your first question. So I'll start off with we have the capital in place or the
capacity in place to deliver the sales. So first, from a cash flow perspective, typically we would
add CapEx as we add sales. So that's a positive for free cash flow as we go forward. We also
have the depreciation in our P&L for those assets. And then we also have some fixed cash costs
that run through our P&L to support those assets. So generally speaking, the fixed costs are
already in our P&L. So you would expect our gross margin to accrete at a higher level than our
current gross margin level. So that's one operating leverage point, or leverage point, if you will.
And then I think on OpEx, we can also grow without adding OpEx much from these levels, and
that creates a second leverage point for us. So that should accrete both gross margin and
operating margin from our current levels, and you should start to see that as the volume comes
back.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
On your question of, in our discussions with our customers, sort of what are the anecdotals? And
it's a really good question because sometimes highly quantitative analysis and data points one
way and anecdotal evidence points the other, right? And in those situations, that's telling you
there's dissonance there and how do we dive deeper to make sure we have the right data set,
and how do we create an understanding of those things that are pointing differently?
In this case, what we're seeing is the anecdotals are in support of what we're seeing in our
deeper analytics, in our understanding of being well below our long-term trends and the need for
that to revert back towards those underlying huge secular trends that drive our demand over
time. So basically reinforcing the opinion of the data. And that is what we tried to reflect in what
we discussed with you today.Q - `Matthew Niknam, Deutsche Bank `
Very helpful. Thank you both.
A - `Ann Nicholson, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Wendell. Thanks, Matt.
Thank you, everybody, for joining us today. Before we close, I wanted to let you know that we'll
be attending the Susquehanna Financial Group 13th Annual Technology Conference on March 1
and the Morgan Stanley Technology, Media and Telecom Conference on March 5. Additionally, we
will host management visits to investor offices in select cities. Finally, a replay of today's call will
be available on our site starting later this morning. Once again, thank you.
And, operator, you can disconnect all lines.
Operator
This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.