Q4 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Welcome to the Corning Incorporated Quarter Four 2024 Earnings Call. (Operator Instructions)
It is my pleasure to introduce to you Ann Nicholson, Vice President of Investor Relations.
`Ann H.S. Nicholson, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you, and good morning. Welcome to Corning's Fourth Quarter 2024 Earnings Call.
With me today are Wendell Weeks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Ed Schlesinger,
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I'd like to remind you that today's remarks contain forward-looking statements that fall within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve risks,
uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. These factors
are detailed in the company's financial reports.
You should also note that we'll be discussing our consolidated results using core performance
measures, unless we specifically indicate our comments relate to GAAP data. Our core
performance measures are non-GAAP measures used by management to analyze the business.
For the fourth quarter, the differences between GAAP and core primarily reflected non-cash
mark-to-market adjustments associated with the company's translated earnings contracts and
Japanese yen-denominated debt, as well as constant currency adjustments and other non-cash
charges. As a reminder, the mark-to-market accounting has no impact on our cash flow.
A reconciliation of core results to the comparable GAAP value can be found in the Investor
Relations section of our website at corning.com. You may also access core results on our website
with downloadable financials in the interactive analyst center. Supporting slides are being shownlive on our webcast. We encourage you to follow along. They're also available on our website for
downloading.
And now I'll turn the call over to Wendell.
`Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Ann, and good morning, everyone.
Today, we announced fourth quarter and full year 2024 results. We had another outstanding
quarter. We grew sales 18% year-over-year to a record $3.9 billion and grew EPS 46% to $0.57. We
expanded operating margin by 220 basis points to 18.5%. We also expanded return on invested
capital 390 basis points to 12.7%. Additionally, for the full year, we generated strong free cash
flow, delivering $1.25 billion for 2024, up 42%. Overall, these results capped off a terrific first year
of Springboard. So I want to review our performance in the context of our Springboard plan.
As we've laid out for you, we're pursuing growth across the company of $8 billion in annualized
sales run rate by the end of 2028, driven by the convergence of upward cyclical and secular
trends in our markets. And we've taken this internal non-risk-adjusted plan and created a high
confidence plan for investors. First, we focused on a three-year time period, which reflects a $5
billion non-risk-adjusted opportunity by the end of 2026. Second, we probabilistically adjusted for
different potential outcomes, including market dynamics, timing of secular trends, successful
adoption of our innovations as well as volume, pricing, and market share across all of our
businesses, and the potential that some of our markets may go through downcycles. And this is
how we formulated our high-confidence Springboard plan to add more than $3 billion in
annualized sales and to achieve operating margin of 20% by the end of 2026.
Now it's important to remember, we purposely drew the $3 billion Springboard plan as a wedge.
We weren't trying to guide every quarter for the next 12 quarters.
So as you can see, we're off to a great start. Our quarter four sales were $3.9 billion. So in year
one of the plan, we added $2.4 billion to our annualized sales run rate from our Springboard
base. And on that strong sales growth, we demonstrated the powerful incrementals that are
embedded in our plan. Year-over-year, in the fourth quarter, we expanded operating margin by
220 basis points to 18.5%. We grew EPS 46% to $0.57. We expanded ROIC 390 basis points to
12.7%. And we closed out a strong year of free cash flow generation, delivering $1.25 billion in
2024, up 42%.
So what's driving our outperformance versus our high-confidence plan? When we introduced
Springboard, we told you that it was a milestone-based plan. In 2024, we hit key strategic
milestones in Display and Optical. In Display, our Springboard plan is centered on maintaining
stable U.S. dollar net income. To achieve this in a weaker yen environment, we raised glass prices
in the second half of 2024 to deliver consistent profitability in the segment. We expect to deliver
net income of $900 million to $950 million this year and to deliver net income margin of 25%,
consistent with the last five years. Overall, we're providing a strong base in Display for our
Springboard growth.
In Optical Communications, our Springboard plan is about revenue growth as upward cyclical and
secular trends converge to drive demand for our unique capabilities. We introduced new Gen AI
products in June of 2024, and we said we expect it to grow our enterprise business at a 25%
compound annual growth rate through 2027. Demand for our new Gen AI products grew each
quarter and sales in the enterprise portion of our Optical business grew 93% year-over-year inthe fourth quarter. And for the full year, enterprise grew to a record $2 billion, up 49% year-over-
year. That growth reflects the Gen AI opportunity inside the data center.
We've also introduced a set of innovations to help our customers build a new network to
interconnect AI-enabled data centers between the cities. As part of an agreement with Lumen
Technologies, which reserves 10% of our global fiber capacity for 2025 and 2026, we launched
the first outside plant deployment of Corning's new Gen AI fiber and cable system that enables
Lumen to fit anywhere from two to four times the amount of fiber into their existing conduit. And
just this month, we started shipping. And Lumen has begun deploying our new data center
interconnect products.
Overall, strong customer response to our new products drove sales of $1.4 billion in Optical in the
fourth quarter, reflecting 51% year-over-year growth. And we expect continued growing demand
in Optical in 2025 and beyond.
So I've highlighted just two of the key milestones that are contributing to the outperformance of
our Springboard plan in year one. We're pursuing a rich opportunity set that extends across our
portfolio, including solar, automotive and mobile consumer electronics. And the progress we've
made increases the probability that our sales will be above our high-confidence sales run rate by
the end of 2026. As a result, we are planning to upgrade our $3 billion Springboard plan at our
March investor event.
So let's take a moment to help you understand how we're thinking about it. First, I've already
shared with you that our businesses are collectively pursuing a non-risk-adjusted plan to add $8
billion in annualized sales run rate by the end of 2028 and $5 billion by the end of 2026. Now
we've just completed our strategy planning cycle, and we remain comfortable that those targets
are appropriate. So we're not changing our non-risk-adjusted plan at this time.
Of course, our internal plans won't be exactly right on everything, including timing because that's
just not how the future works. But the benefit of our balanced portfolio is that we know many of
our exciting opportunities will come to fruition. We translated our non-risk-adjusted plan into a
high-confidence investable thesis for you by accounting for multiple potential outcomes. And we
provided you our high-confidence plan to add more than $3 billion in annualized sales by the end
of 2026.
So where do we stand today? Even though we're only one year into the three-year high-
confidence plan, our progress against key milestones increases the potential for positive
outcomes and therefore, our likelihood of success. For example, the tremendous response to
our Gen AI products puts us on the positive side of that distribution. Our display pricing also puts
us on the positive side. And you're seeing that positive momentum in our numbers. So as I just
shared with you, as a result of our progress across our portfolio, we will upgrade our $3 billion
high-confidence plan at our March investor event.
Before I turn things over to Ed, here's what I'd like to leave you with today. Our quarter four was
an outstanding quarter that capped off a terrific first year of our Springboard plan. We added $2.4
billion to our annualized sales run rate in quarter four. And as we grow sales, we're growing
profitability at a significantly faster rate.
Overall, we positioned our businesses to benefit from a convergence of cyclical and secular
trends to drive growth across the company through 2026 and beyond. We've got many more
milestones ahead, and I look forward to sharing more detail with you on the strong progress
we're making when we get together in March.With that, I'll turn it over to Ed.
`Edward A. Schlesinger, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Wendell, and good morning, everyone.
As you just heard, we had another outstanding quarter and completed a strong first year of our
Springboard plan. Cyclical and secular trends are driving demand for our products. We have the
capacity and technical capabilities in place to add more than $3 billion in annualized sales by the
end of 2026. And the cost and capital are already reflected in our financials. So this means that as
we grow, we expect to grow profit significantly faster than sales.
And that's exactly what you saw in the fourth quarter. Sales grew 18% year-over-year to $3.9
billion and EPS grew 46% to $0.57, more than two times the rate of sales. Operating margin
expanded 220 basis points to 18.5%, marking strong progress on the target we've shared to
achieve 20% operating margin by the end of 2026. Overall, it was a terrific quarter and we
expect our momentum to continue in 2025.
In the first quarter, we expect sales to grow 10% year-over-year to approximately $3.6 billion, with
core EPS growing approximately 30% to a range of $0.48 to $0.52. Based on our strong
performance, we continue to track ahead of our Springboard plan. So this morning, I want to
share more details and perspective on our quarter and full year results.
For the full year, we grew sales 7% to $14.5 billion. At the same time, EPS grew 15% to $1.96. Gross
margin expanded 190 basis points to 38.2% and operating margin expanded a 4 percentage
point to 17.5%. We increased free cash flow by $373 million versus the prior year to $1.25 billion.
Moving to the segments. In Optical Communications, fourth quarter sales were $1.37 billion, up
51% year-over-year. Full year sales grew 16% to $4.66 billion. In our enterprise business, sales
were $686 million for the quarter, up 93% year-over-year, driven by the continued strong
adoption of our new Gen AI products. This marks another record quarter of growth in this
business. And for the full year, enterprise grew 49% to $2 billion. We also grew year-over-year in
our carrier business in the fourth quarter as customers continued to buy closer to their rates of
deployment.
Net income for the full year and fourth quarter reflected strong incremental profit on higher
volume. For the fourth quarter, net income for the Optical Communications segment grew 120%
year-over-year to $194 million. And for the full year, net income grew 28% to $612 million. Overall,
we expect our unique capabilities in Optical Communications to drive continued growth in 2025
and beyond.
In carrier, we expect deployments to increase in 2025 as indicated by carrier customer
conversations and public announcements. We also expect growing demand for our connectivity
products for Gen AI, and we're just beginning to ship our new data center interconnect products
to Lumen in the first quarter.
Moving to Display Technologies. Fourth quarter sales were $971 million, up 12% year-over-year.
Net income was $262 million. Full year sales grew 10% to $3.87 billion. Net income was up 19%.
The retail and glass market grew year-over-year as measured in square feet, driven by larger
average screen size. Late in the quarter, panel makers increased their utilization rates as set
makers upped their orders driven by government stimulus in China. We expect panel makers to
continue at these utilization rates in the first quarter of 2025.As we shared with you in September and on our third quarter earnings call, we raised glass prices
to deliver consistent profitability in the segment. We've successfully implemented double-digit
price increases in the second half of 2024 to ensure we can maintain stable U.S. dollar net income
in a weaker yen environment. We continue to expect to deliver net income of $900 million to
$950 million in 2025 and net income margin of 25%, consistent with the last five years.
Turning to Specialty Materials. In the fourth quarter, sales were $515 million, up 9% year-over-year
and down 6% sequentially. Full year sales grew 8% to $2 billion as we advanced our More Corning
content strategy in both Gorilla and advanced optics. Net income grew 40% year-over-year in the
fourth quarter to $81 million and was up 29% for the full year to $260 million, reflecting strong
incrementals on higher volumes as well as strong demand for our premium glass innovations.
In Environmental Technologies, our fourth quarter sales were $397 million, down 7% year-over-
year, driven by weaker light-duty and heavy-duty markets in Europe. Full year sales were down 6%
year-over-year as we continued to experience weaker global heavy-duty markets, particularly in
Europe. Net income of $81 million for Q4 was down 17% year-over-year, reflecting lower volume.
Net income for the full year was $358 million, down 7% on lower sales. In 2025, industry analysts
expect the global light-duty market to remain flat and for the heavy-duty market to be down
slightly primarily in North America.
In Life Sciences, fourth quarter sales were $250 million, up 3% year-over-year, and net income
grew 6% year-over-year. Full year sales were $979 million, up 2% as the market stabilized
throughout the year. Net income grew 26%, significantly faster than sales.
And finally, in Hemlock and Emerging Growth Businesses, fourth quarter sales were $373 million,
up 5% year-over-year. Full year sales were $1.28 billion.
As you can see, we're making strong progress on Springboard. And as we enter 2025, we expect
our momentum to continue. In the first quarter, we expect sales to grow 10% year-over-year to
approximately $3.6 billion, with core EPS growing approximately 30% to a range of $0.48 to
$0.52.
Additionally, we have hedged our yen exposure for 2025 and 2026. We also have hedges in
place beyond 2026. In 2025, we will be resetting our yen core rate to JPY120 to the dollar,
consistent with our hedge rate. We have reflected the JPY120 core rate in our Q1 guidance. We
do not plan to recast our 2024 financials because we expect to maintain the same profitability in
Display at the new core rate. And as I said earlier, in Display, we expect to deliver net income of
$900 million to $950 million in 2025 and net income margin of 25%, consistent with the last five
years.
Now, I'd like to spend a minute on capital allocation. I've told you that we have the capacity and
technical capabilities in place to add more than $3 billion in annualized sales by the end of 2026.
So we expect to deliver strong incremental profit and cash flow as we capture the sales growth
opportunity outlined in our Springboard plan. One proof point from the first year of the plan is
that we grew free cash flow by 42% in 2024 to $1.25 billion. And as our execution of Springboard
continues, we expect to generate significant cash in 2025.
Our capital allocation priorities remain the same. We prioritize investing for organic growth
opportunities. We believe this creates the most value for our shareholders over the long term. In
2025, we expect our capital expenditures to be approximately $1.3 billion. We also seek to
maintain a strong and efficient balance sheet. We're in great shape here. We have one of the
longest debt tenors in the S&P 500. Our current average debt maturity is about 23 years, withonly about $1.2 billion in debt coming due over the next five years. And we have no significant
debt coming due in any given year.
And finally, we expect to continue our strong track record of returning excess cash to
shareholders, we started to buy back shares in the second quarter and we have continued to do
so throughout 2024.
So as I wrap up today, I'd like to reiterate that we had an outstanding fourth quarter that capped
off a strong first year of Springboard. Compared with Q4 2023, our starting point for
Springboard, sales grew 18% year-over-year to $3.9 billion, EPS grew 46% to $0.57 and operating
margin expanded 220 basis points to 18.5%, marking strong progress on the target we've shared
to achieve 20% operating margin by the end of 2026. Looking ahead, we expect 10% year-over-
year sales growth in the first quarter, with EPS growing about three times faster. And we expect
to sustain our momentum throughout 2025.
In total, we're tracking ahead of our high-confidence plan to add more than $3 billion in
annualized sales by the end of 2026. And we look forward to our March investor event when we
plan to provide you with an update to our high-confidence Springboard plan.
Thank you, everyone. And with that, I'll turn it back over to Ann.
`Ann H.S. Nicholson, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Ed. Okay, operator, we're ready for the first question.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Samik Chatterjee
with J.P. Morgan. Your line is now open.
Q - `Joseph Curtis, Analyst, JPMorgan Chase & Co. `
Hi, thanks for the question. This is Joe Curtis on for Samik. I guess maybe just for one question,
and I'm not trying to get ahead of the investor event. But maybe, Wendell, can you just flush out
your comments a bit more around an upgrade or the potential upgrade to the risk-adjusted plan?
However, you're still feeling comfortable around the non-risk-adjusted plan. Obviously, the
implications there is that the upgrade could land somewhere between those two plans, at least
for your 2026 targets that you provided. And if so, maybe can you just help us think about the
lingering risk or the major risks from your perspective that Corning is still looking to navigate to
achieve the non-risk-adjusted plan at least relative to the 2026 targets? Thank you.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
So thanks for the question, Joe. I think actually, in your question, you had the answer, which is, yes,
you understand exactly what we're saying. When we go through our full strategic review, we work
our way through all of those various scenarios and where we came back is that, that long-term
plan to generate $8 billion. That target remain quite appropriate. And that what's happened is
that if you take a look at the full distribution of potential outcomes that the probability has shifted
towards higher numbers being more probable with underneath between that $8 billion and our
risk adjusted plan. So we'll have a number that will be between those two and we'll fill that out in
March. And at that time, what we'll also do is we'll talk some about the milestones that are ahead.
Was that answer clear or did I make it more confusing, Joe?Q - `Joseph Curtis, Analyst, JPMorgan Chase & Co. `
No, no, very clear. I guess, Wendell, what I was just trying to get at more is just around like the risk
that you still see ahead. I think at the time and even in the call itself today, you mentioned that
obviously Optical is tracking ahead. And I think the risks back in June, you talked about timing
around projects getting done and then Display obviously was another one of the bigger risks
relative to the plan. So as you think about today and now starting to get ahead of some of those
or those check marks around some of those risks being in the rearview mirror, I guess, as you
think about the plan, which are the major risks that are still ahead that you think are still left to
navigate?
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
So I think about a little less as risk and more as milestones. So for instance, let's stay in Opto for a
moment. So we see carrier growing year-over-year as their deployment rates have -- as their
purchases from us are now approaching their deployment rates. So as part of our cyclical trend
there, what we said is that the carriers had overdone inventory relative to deployment and those
two things would come into line and then we'd start to see recovery. We see the beginning of
that, right? But we'd like to see more.
Similarly, in our Solar MAP, right, we have several milestones that we'd like to see be completed
for that business to become the scale of the opportunity that you see reflected in our non-risk-
adjusted plan. Similarly, we have some major innovations in mobile consumer electronics that
drive more Corning into our -- into that relatively stable market as the market adopts more and
more of our innovations. Similarly, in automotive, both our automotive glass, there's key
milestones to hit as well as adoption of the GPF technology in the U.S. ICE market.
So that just gives you an example of some of the key milestones that are still ahead for us to hit
the fall non-risk-adjusted plan. Was that helpful, Joe?
Q - `Joseph Curtis, Analyst, JPMorgan Chase & Co. `
Yes, Wendell. Thank you. That's great. Appreciate the color.
A - `Ann H.S. Nicholson, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Great. Next question.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Mehdi Hosseini with Susquehanna. Your line is now
open.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Hi, congrats on the quarter. This is Sebastian[ph] filling in for Mehdi. So you expect carrier
deployments to increase in 2025 and growing demand of connectivity products. Is that ex-
Lumen? So it would be my first question. My second question is, could you maybe give us a little
bit of color on where you're guiding on those 10% year-on-year sales growth? If you could get a
little bit of color on if you're still seeing enterprise being strong and as well if you could touch a
little bit on the Display market?
A - `Edward A. Schlesinger, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `Yeah, thank you for those questions. So first on carrier. So yes, we did start shipping Lumen right
here just now in the first quarter, and that will ramp as we go through the year. When we talk
about carrier deployments increasing, I would say it's broader than Lumen. But I would also say
that the number one indicator is what we see in our order book. So we're not necessarily starting
out right here expecting a big ramp in carrier deployments in the first half of 2025. So we expect
carriers other than Lumen to increase deployments, but not so much early in the year.
And then to your enterprise question, we definitely expect our momentum to continue into 2025.
And certainly in the first quarter, our year-over-year guide implies a strong enterprise segment in
the first quarter.
And then I think your last part of your question was on the Display market. What I would say on
Display is, we saw growth in glass in 2024 year-over-year, primarily from screen size. The IT
market was also up year-over-year in that space. Panel makers ran relatively strong in the fourth
quarter. We're expecting them to kind of run at that rate as they go into calendar year 2025. That
said, we provided you with a guide for full year Display on net income, which of course implies a
sales guide as well. So it's possible that the back half is a little bit lower in Display if the front half
is a little bit stronger. So we would expect screen size to continue year-over-year to really be
driving any growth in Display in the glass market.
Q - `Joseph Curtis, Analyst, JPMorgan Chase & Co. `
Very helpful. Thank you.
A - `Ann H.S. Nicholson, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Ed. Okay, next question.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Asiya Merchant, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets with Citi. Your line is now open.
Q - `Asiya Merchant, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets `
Great. Thank you and congratulations on a great set of numbers. Two, if I may. The Optical
demand is obviously ramping up really well. Can you talk a little bit about how we should think
about net income margins in that segment? It expanded a little bit relative to the last quarter.
Growth was on the top line pretty strong. So as we think about the momentum here and the
drivers for growth in enterprise more strongly than carrier, how we should think about the net
income margin performance in that segment?
And the second one on cash flow. How we should think about free cash flow margins sort of as
you guys progress towards your Springboard plan and exceed that Springboard plan, the high-
confidence Springboard plan? How we should think about free cash flow margins in 2025? Thank
you.
A - `Edward A. Schlesinger, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
And thanks, Asiya, and thanks for the nice comments. First on Optical, I think the thing to think
about is our sales have ramped significantly through the year, especially in enterprise, and we're
expecting that to continue. So we have some costs to actually be able to serve the higher sales
and the expected higher sales that we have going into 2025, and that is having a little bit of an
impact on our Optical margins here in the fourth quarter. So I would expect our margins to
continue to accrete up in Optical as we go into 2025.And then on cash, we -- as we sort of started out the year, our expectation was that we wouldn't
need to add a lot of capacity and that has turned out to be true. And I think our capital guide
continues to imply that. So our free cash flow was up very nicely year-over-year, and we expect
free cash flow to continue to improve.
I want to think a little bit about your question on margin, cash flow margin. So I'll come back to you
on that. But the other thing I would add is that, as we exited the year, we did build some working
capital in AR and inventory. And again, I attribute that to just the ramp in sales. So that actually
bodes well as we go into 2025.
A - `Ann H.S. Nicholson, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Ed. Okay, next question.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Wamsi Mohan, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch with Bank of America. Your line is now
open.
Q - `Wamsi Mohan, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Yes, thank you so much. Wendell, your Optical business is clearly benefiting from the Gen AI
deployments and we've heard a lot of market dislocation over the last week from DeepSeek. So
I'm curious what your view is on DeepSeek's impact to AI buildout more broadly and for Corning
in particular?
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Well, thanks for that opportunity, Wamsi. First and most importantly for Corning investors, we
don't see any negative impact on our Springboard plan to deliver our $3 billion plus revenue by
the end of 2026 from the DeepSeek set of announcements. So from a Corning perspective, we
don't see any significant impact.
More broadly, I think you're interested in is, DeepSeek has actually been a topic of focus for the
technical community for the last two or three months from when they first did their V3 late last
year. To reduce the cost of training, they appear to have used both innovations that are already in
use by the leaders in the space as well as some innovations that are a little ahead of the industry
at this time, right? And I just think more will become public as to everything that went into their
set of innovations as time goes by.
Stepping back, I think what's super important to understand is that we need dramatic
improvement in training and inference cost to make Gen AI into a highly sustainable business
model and more importantly, the productivity driver that we all hope it will be. So we need sort of
order of magnitude type improvements. And so what you should always do is expect there to be
significant innovations are going to continue here, right? And in many ways, all of us in this space
are counting on many more innovations to come, so that this realizes its ultimate potential. There
is nothing in all of this that would say the need for a better compute and better communications
doesn't make models better. Does that make sense to you, Wamsi?
Q - `Wamsi Mohan, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Yeah, yeah. No, it does. I appreciate that answer. Thank you, Wendell.And one for Ed, if I could. Just one quick clarification on the core rate of JPY120. Would this core
rate be static again for a few years as you have had in the past? And that's my quick clarification.
And secondarily, would you say that -- as you think about 2025 in your guidance for CapEx over
here, you're just coming off a pretty low year of CapEx relative to last several years and it's
ticking back up. Can you just help us think through what are the incremental places where
investments are going on that incremental CapEx? Thank you.
A - `Edward A. Schlesinger, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Maybe on CapEx, just real quick, we had been guiding around $1.2 billion for most of the
year. We came in a little below that. There's always a little bit of timing in terms of how we're
spending. But I think the most important thing to think about is our depreciation is about $1.3
billion. So if we're spending capital at that level or below that level, we're really not adding any
material capacity in our guide for next year is in line with that thinking. No, so we always need a
little capacity here or there or we add technological innovation, capital for new technology. But
that's how I'm thinking about it. We're really not adding anything significant in our 2025 guide.
On the core rate, so maybe just stepping back, we've been talking about what we've been doing
in Display. So the most important thing is that we were able to raise price double-digits in the
back half, and that's actually in our kind of guide or our run rate as we go forward. We were able
to hedge 2025 and 2026 at the JPY120 rate. So at least my expectation is no change for that
time period. We also have hedges in place beyond 2026, and we'll come back as the year
progresses and share our thoughts on how to think about it beyond that 2026 time window.
Q - `Wamsi Mohan, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay, great. Thank you so much.
A - `Edward A. Schlesinger, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah.
A - `Ann H.S. Nicholson, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Great. Next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `John Roberts, Analyst, Mizuho Securities with the Mizuho. Your line is now open.
Q - `John Roberts, Analyst, Mizuho Securities `
Thank you. How do you think about the risk of the BEAD program being reworked and maybe
satellite playing a more significant role. It seems like this administration is willing to go back into
programs already well underway.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks for the question, John. Within our overall Springboard plan, one of the things we've
accounted for in our sort of de-rating between non-risk-adjusted and our risk-adjusted plan is
how effective and how broadly BEAD would be used. We weren't counting on it to become any
degree of revenue even in our non-risk-adjusted plan until 2026. So one of the things we
updated as part of our strategy planning process was how do we feel about where fiber optics
would deploy versus satellite being a better economic answer. After we worked through all ofthose pieces, what we basically came back with were some modifications, but nothing that would
change our fundamental Springboard thesis, John.
Q - `John Roberts, Analyst, Mizuho Securities `
And then maybe a quick one for Ed, but the Hemlock minority interest income surged. What's
going on there? And will you break out Hemlock sales beginning in the March quarter?
A - `Edward A. Schlesinger, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So two things, John. We have a few joint ventures that impact our minority interest line.
Hemlock did actually have a strong fourth quarter. A lot of their semiconductor polysilicon
contracts are back-end loaded. So that does drive our minority interest up high in the fourth
quarter or higher, just given the higher sales, higher income. And yes, our intention would be as
we go into 2025 to provide some updates to our segment reporting. You've heard us talk about
graduating our automotive glass business out and breaking out solar sort of/Hemlock[ph]. So that
is -- that continues to be our plans. And after we file our 10-K and move past this year, we'll
provide some more insight on that.
Q - `John Roberts, Analyst, Mizuho Securities `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of `Matt Niknam, Analyst, Deutsche Bank with
Deutsche Bank. Your line is now open.
Q - `Matt Niknam, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Hey, guys. Thanks so much for taking the question, and congrats on the quarter. Just two from
me. First on, I guess, new administration and I'm wondering, is the prospect of newer tariffs
implemented by the new U.S. administration hold forward any sort of demand or ordering activity
into 4Q or even in the first quarter?
And then secondly, maybe for Ed, you talked about the healthy balance sheet position, ramping
free cash flow and you talked about buybacks. I'm just wondering the dividend was relatively flat
last year. How are you thinking about resuming dividend growth in the context of the success of
Springboard seen to date? Thanks.
A - `Edward A. Schlesinger, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Yea. Thanks, Matt. Appreciate the comments and the questions. So maybe I'll start with your
second one. So yes, good cash flow. We started buying back shares. We expect to continue to do
that as we go forward. We haven't provided any specific target.
I think on the dividend, we pay a very healthy dividend. I would like to see our payout ratio come
down a little bit from where it is even today before we start to resume increasing the dividend.
But that's certainly not off the table for us as we go forward.
Maybe on tariffs, I'll make a comment and Wendell can jump in if you want to add anything. I think
first and foremost, I want to be very humble and admit that we don't actually know what's going
to happen yet. There's a lot of proposals out there. So we are obviously tracking all of that and
we're not going to react to things until they're really enacted.A couple of things to consider for Corning. First and foremost, we manufacture generally where
our customers are. So sort of from a direct impact of tariffs on us, on the things we make and
import, export, there isn't a huge impact, there's a limited impact, not -- it's not zero, but there's
certainly a limited impact. And we have the ability to move our supply chain a little bit and we
certainly have the ability to raise price if that is something that is required to do. I think secondly,
we manufacture a lot in the U.S. We're very much for advanced manufacturing in the U.S. We have
a big footprint in our Optical business in fiber and cable. We produce environmental for our
Environmental business, our Life Sciences business, solar, and we even make product for our
mobile consumer electronics business in the U.S. So I think that actually puts us on the side of we
like U.S. manufacturing and we're very supportive of that.
So we'll continue to track it. But right now, I don't think we have anything that we would add to the
external dialog, and feel free to jump in.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
I think when you start to do fine-tuning on models, right, there's some places to look. It's not -- I
think Ed is exactly right on our direct sales. We'll see some differences in customer behavior. I
think in our Display business, we're seeing a little bit stronger panel maker utilization as they sort
of get ready for what may or may not happen. But that's really a close in sort of modeling
question, Matt. I think it's got the fundamental thrust along with the humility that we have to bring
to this broader question. Does that make sense to you, Matt?
Q - `Matt Niknam, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
It does, it does. Thank you, both.
A - `Ann H.S. Nicholson, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Great. Okay, next question.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Meta Marshall, Analyst, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Your line is now
open.
Q - `Meta Marshall, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thanks. A couple of quick questions for me. Maybe first, as you started to kind of get the
Lumen orders early on, is that kind of tracking to kind of how you thought to the order patterns
that you were expecting?
And then maybe just a second question on Specialty Materials. Noted kind of it looked like there
was an upgrade in the content with the S25 phone from Samsung that just came out. So just
wondering if that kind of impacts the trajectory of the year on Specialty Materials? Thanks.
A - `Edward A. Schlesinger, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
On the first one, the order pattern is coming in the way we would have expected. We've actually
been more of the bottleneck because this is a brand new to the world product. So it's been our
ability to make sure we got through the full call cycles, testing cycles, and the like to be able to do
this new to the world product rather than Lumen's desire to install it that have taken us here into
the past month to be able to ship. So -- but if your core of your question is, are we seeing the
demand we anticipated? The answer is yes.To the second, yeah, we're excited about their announcement. It's in line with sort of our overall
More Corning strategy. And we are, in general, always happy when we see our customers be
able to use our newest innovations to be able to make their product better and that they think it's
so important that they promote it. I mean, that always makes our day.
Q - `Meta Marshall, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Ann H.S. Nicholson, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Okay. Next question, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Tim Long, Analyst, Barclays with Barclays. Your line is now open.
Q - `Tim Long, Analyst, Barclays `
Thank you. Excuse me. Two-parter, if I could on Optical. First, maybe a quick one. I think this -- the
enterprise piece of the business used to be about 50-50 enterprise data center. I'm assuming
that's giving a lot more to the data center customers. If you could just give just some high-level
impact there.
And then secondly, Ed, maybe you or Wendell, just curious, just looking back, obviously, there's
always been a lot of cyclicality in this Optical Comms business, some really big years followed by
some down 10% or 20% years. So curious how you're thinking about cyclicality going forward. I'm
sure the visibility into the next -- into 2025 is very solid. How far does the visibility extend for you?
And how do you prepare for potential cyclicality like we've seen multiple times over the last
decade? Thank you.
A - `Edward A. Schlesinger, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, maybe on your first -- the first part of your question, Tim, I think a good way to think about
it is our enterprise business is up about 50% for the full year of 2024 versus 2023, and the
majority of that growth is coming in the Gen AI data center space. So that kind of gives you a
flavor for the change in the profile of the mix between hyperscale or data center and non-data
center.
On the second one, I'll make a comment, but I'd certainly like Wendell to add. We actually have
pretty good visibility in what I would call the near-term, right? So think of that as 2025, right? We
expect our momentum to continue in that space. I'm always, again, humble -- I use the same
word humble that there can be periods of time where you have a build cycle that slows down.
And so you could have a quarter where even though your order rates are strong and the
momentum is continuing, your sales may not go up as much as it has over the last several
quarters. I think that's true in carrier and it can certainly be true in the enterprise space as well.
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
I think it's a great observation, Tim. That is one of the key factors that is a difference between our
non-risk-adjusted plan and our risk-adjusted plan is catching the timing of those capital cycles. I
think the good news right now is, historically, sort of one of the big drivers of those cycles has
been carrier behavior as new links are put in. And right now, you don't see carrier being a
significant driver of the results that we have just printed. It's much more -- it's just the recovery ofour orders to get more in line with their deployments. So then that takes us back to what will the
hyperscale data centers, the data center buildouts look like. And we'll try to provide you a little
more insight into that when we get together in March as to how much visibility that we see, how
does -- do the reservations on our capacity look like? And we'll try to provide that with a little
more insight to help you guys understand why we'll be upgrading our plan and why we're not just
rolling out with our non-risk-adjusted plan. Does that make sense to you, Tim?
Q - `Tim Long, Analyst, Barclays `
Yes, it does. Thank you very much.
A - `Ann H.S. Nicholson, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Okay, next question.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Spector with UBS. Your line is now open.
Q - `James Cannon, Analyst, UBS `
Hey, guys. This is `James Cannon, Analyst, UBS on for Josh. I just wanted to dive back in on the BEAD program,
and I think there are three states maybe at this point that have been -- that have gone through
their final approval process. I just wanted to see if you've had any orders start to come in under
that? Or if it's still pointing towards kind of that 2026 timeline? And if you have had any orders,
how do those track against your kind of prior target of, call it, a $4 billion TAM against the $42
billion allocated program?
A - `Wendell P. Weeks, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Okay. So first, early stages, Ed has talked about approaching the future with humility. And
you'll remember when we introduced BEAD as one of the three potential springs, I also shared
that you should approach government programs with some degree of cynicism as well as humility
because of how long everything takes. And that cynicism seems to have been well placed. Yes,
we are starting to see the earliest trickles, but not enough for us to notice in the size and scale of
our numbers, James, right? And yes, what we're seeing supports our view of the TAM. But that
being said, it's so little data. I wouldn't take it as necessarily reinforcing nor would I say that it
would all accelerate our view that this would begin to make a difference anytime between now
and 2026.
Q - `James Cannon, Analyst, UBS `
All right. Understood. Thank you very much.
A - `Ann H.S. Nicholson, Vice President of Investor Relations `
All right. We'll take one last question.
Operator
Our last question is from the line of `George Notter, Analyst, Jefferies & Company with Jefferies. Your line is now open.
Q - `George Notter, Analyst, Jefferies & Company `Hi, guys. Thanks a lot for squeezing me in. Congrats on the strong results. I guess I wanted to ask
about the JPY120 rate on the yen. I guess that was a lot better than I was imagining just looking at
the forward curves we've seen over the last six or nine months. I guess, I'm wondering if the
company spent a lot on putting those hedges in place? Or is it the case that we've seen
historically where the hedging portfolio has been relatively low cost or no cost for the company?
Just trying to understand kind of how you got on that yen rate.
And then also, I'd be curious if you could take the Q1 guidance and give us a year-on-year
compare. So give us a sense for what Q1 of '24 would have looked like at a JPY120 rate on the
yen, just to be able to have an apples-to-apples compare? Thanks a lot, guys.
A - `Edward A. Schlesinger, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, thanks, George. So I think the short answer is, we were able to use a number of tools like
we always do when we hedge the yen to keep the cost very low, to be able to achieve that
JPY120 rate. As you know, we've been hedging the yen in other currencies for a long period of
time and we've generated a significant amount of gains over $2.5 billion of time. We can go out in
time as well to continue to benefit from the rate. And then there are other mechanisms we have.
So generally relatively low cost and all that cost is reflected in our financial statements.
On the Q1 guide, we'll take your question and come back. I mean, we're not planning to recast
the yen primarily because when you take the impact of our price increases and the change from
JPY107 to JPY120, we expect to get to the same level of profitability. So that's the way we've sort
of designed our approach to dealing with the weaker yen environment. And so, therefore, we are
-- we were not intending to do that. But I understand what you're trying to do.
When I think about our Q1 guide, Q1 of 2024, we did not have our price increases in there and we
were at JPY107. When you go to Q1 of 2025, we have the price increases and we're at JPY120
and we expect to be at or above the same level of profitability. And that's kind of the proof point
that we are using to sort of articulate this approach. But we'll come back and talk a little bit maybe
offline about what you're seeking.
Q - `George Notter, Analyst, Jefferies & Company `
Super. Thanks very much.
A - `Ann H.S. Nicholson, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Yes. Thanks, George. Thanks, Ed. And thank you, everybody, for joining us this morning. Before
we close, I wanted to let you know that we're going to be virtually attending the Susquehanna
14th Annual Tech Conference on February 28th. And as we said, we'll be hosting an investor
event in New York City on March 18th. Additionally, we'll be scheduling management visits to
investor offices in select cities. Finally, a web replay of today's call will be available on our site
starting later this morning.
Once again, thank you all for joining us. Operator, that concludes the call. Please disconnect all
lines.
Operator
This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.