Q4 2014 Earnings Call

Operator
Good afternoon and welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to AstraZeneca's Second Quarter and Half
Year Results Analyst Conference. Before I hand over to you, `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director, I'd like to read the Safe
Harbor statement.
The company intends to utilize the Safe Harbor Provisions of the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Participants on this call may make forward-looking statements with
respect to the operations and financial performance of AstraZeneca. Although we believe our
expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, by their very nature, forward-looking
statements involve risks and uncertainties and may be influenced by factors that could cause
actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking
statements. Any forward-looking statements made on this call reflect the knowledge and
information available at the time of this call. The company undertakes no obligation to update
forward-looking statements.
I will now hand you over to `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director.
`Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
All right. Good afternoon, everybody. Welcome to this annual results conference. Really a
pleasure to be with you today and really a pleasure to report on quite frankly what has been in
many ways a very busy year for us, a very unusual year, but also, a very remarkable year. And we
feel we've made a fair amount of progress in the last 12 months.
So, I'll give you a quick overview of our results. Luke, who is our head of product strategy – our
EVP, Head of Product Strategy, will cover the growth platforms in more detail. Marc will take youthrough our financials. And finally, Briggs will cover the pipeline progression. And then, of course,
we'll go to the Q&A.
So, 2014 was really a year where – when we focused on implementing our strategy. And we
believe we did make quite some progress in returning to growth, in particular, our growth
platforms delivered collectively a 15% growth rate. And they now represent about 53% of our
total sales, so quite remarkable. And as you can see here, they all grew except Japan, and we'll
cover Japan a little bit later. But as you probably know, we were faced with price reductions, but
also the impact of generics in the oncology market was much more important than expected
because the dynamics in the generic market have changed in Japan. And finally, we had a recall in
the last quarter for Nexium.
Almost the most exciting part is the enormous progress we made rebuilding our pipeline and
now turning this into a reality. A year ago, we told you, here is what we're doing with our pipeline.
But really, we didn't have much reality to this pipeline yet. Now, we are turning this into approvals.
We got approval for Duaklir, which we acquired recently. We filed lesinurad. We've got good data
from brodalumab. We filed saxa/dapa, an important combination for our diabetes franchise.
Really important results with PEGASUS and Brilinta.
We got approval for Lynparza in the U.S. and Europe, and we are now in the process of launching
this product, very good success in the U.S. so far. Very early days so we cannot conclude and
should not conclude too quickly. But really, very, very good response so far. We filed Iressa and
also we got approval for Moventig. And finally – well, it's not listed here – we also got the
scheduling – information that we got the scheduling for Moventig in the U.S. so we are ready to
launch very soon.
I think the key message that I want to leave you with here is that we actually delivered our
guidance for the year, and I think it's really something that I would like to maybe ask you to
remember is that we tried to deliver what we said we were going to do. And essentially, we
guided up at the end of Q3 for the full year, and we delivered exactly where we said we were
going to deliver. In fact, on core EPS front a little bit better, but broadly speaking, you could say
very much on track.
And when we guided on 2014, of course, when you (05:14) Q3 year-to-date pictures and by
definition, people could have expected what Q4 was going to look like. But the important point is
we got exactly where we said we would get.
Another message on this slide is the growth rate in China. It hasn't stopped. We have consistent
quarter-after-quarter growth rate north of 20%. The market is slowing down a little bit in China,
the market growth rate, but still we experienced very strong growth throughout the whole year.
We are the number two in China, as you know. We have the fastest or one of the fastest growth
rates there. And China is now our second largest national market on a global basis. So, very
exciting development there. But also very good results in other markets in the emerging markets
region.
So, let me start with the approvals, we got six – we got approval for six new – sorry. We got six
NDAs or BLA approvals in 2014. So it's a record for us as a company, historically. But it's also a
pretty strong performance from an industry viewpoint. And some of them – products are very,
very important to our business long term but many of them are really quite critical to our core
franchises.We also got additional approvals with Duaklir and the Bydureon Pen. Luke will tell you more about
the Bydureon DCP in a minute but I can say that so far, we're doing quite well with it in the United
States. And importantly, over the next couple of years, and Briggs will come back to this, we are
on track to deliver seven to eight potential NME submissions, quite a number of them in 2015, but
another number in 2016. And about half of those are in oncology. So very exciting news flow from
a platform viewpoint over the next couple of years.
Now let me stop a minute on this slide and attract your attention to it. When we actually set up
the organization two years ago, we actually tried to come up with a model that would increase
accountability, would increase (07:38) and autonomy and would enable people to be more
entrepreneurial and move faster. And as a result, we came up with a model that has two biotech
companies. One is called MedImmune, which is really focusing on biologics and immunotherapy.
And the other one is called AstraZeneca IMED which is really focusing on small molecules.
And those two biotechs have a clear role, which is to discover and early develop products and
bring them to a point in time when we can transition them to the late-stage organization.
Sometimes Phase I, typically toward the end of Phase II, and, of course, we have some flexibility
there, especially in oncology, to move into late-stage development earlier.
But fundamentally, we have two biotechs and the transition products through our late-stage
organization called AstraZeneca. But we always had in mind that we may actually decide to create
value in a different manner, to create value with partners, not necessarily by ourselves. And what
has happened is we believe our productivity in R&D, and research and early development, has
really improved so rapidly that we get to a point today where we can't do everything ourselves.
So, what we've decided to do is to typically develop and commercialize ourselves the products
that belong to our core therapy areas and then partner and create values for partnerships for
other products that we will not develop ourselves.
And it's an important aspect to consider because one option for us, of course, was to completely
cut out research in areas that we believe are not necessarily our core franchises. But we thought
we have very strong science and we need to find a way to bring this science to patients and
create value for the company out of it.
The BACE inhibitor that we partnered with Lilly last year is a very good example of this. This is a
great product. Whether it works or not, we still don't know. Of course, potentially, it could really
make a difference to the treatment of Alzheimer. We found a great partner who understands
Alzheimer disease far better than we would. They are taking the lead developing it. We've got a
great relationship and create long-term value and short-term value for the company.
We have monoclonal antibodies in development for pseudomonas infections, (10:06) infections,
adjunctive treatment or prophylaxis. Those are agents who've received – which have received
breakthrough designations by the FDA. Very great products, great science. This is really not an
area where we have strength and we don't have capabilities. And again, we don't have resources
to do everything, so another example where we could potentially out-license or find partners to
develop.
An important dimension, because essentially, you got to keep in mind that if we were a biotech
company, that's exactly what we would be doing. We would be looking for partners to develop
some of our products. So it's not because we are a large pharma that we can't operate as a small
biotech. So, some of the work we're going to do is going to be similar to what a biotech company
would do.Now if I move to the return to growth agenda, I told you, our growth platforms, they represent
53% of our sales. They grew 15% collectively in 2014 and you can see here we've moved from
41% to 53% in 2014. Now, the challenge for us, of course, is that the non-growth platforms in
particular, Nexium and Crestor, still represent a pretty substantial part of our business. And over
the next couple of years, as you all know, we will lose them.
So clearly, we have moved very nicely over the last two years in the first phase rebuilding our
pipeline. Now we are getting into the next phase of our transformation, which is 2015-2016,
where our underlying business is growing fast, but of course, we have to deal with the patent
expiries that create headwinds.
You can see here that we've had several consecutive quarters of growth. Q4 actually grew 3%;
the 2% reported is after reclassification of the excise fee, which Marc will talk briefly about a bit
earlier. I think importantly, I just wanted to attract your attention to one point, is that the
consensus didn't consider the excise fee in its totality by product. And you have to keep in mind,
we accounted for – we paid actually, because the government, as you know, changed the
methodology and we ended up paying two quarters of excise fees in the last quarter.
So, we accounted for two quarters' excise fees in Q4. The impact by product is roughly 4%. So
when you look at product by product and you compare theirs (12:32) to consensus, you got to
remember consensus is not adjusted for those 4%.
So, I'll stop here and hand over to Luke.
`Luke Miels, Executive VP-Global Portfolio & Product Strategy `
Thank you, Pascal. And this transition represents an important point for the company. You can see
here, in this slide here, the performance of the growth drivers – the growth platforms in 2014
were very consistent and demonstrated that we could compete and perform well in our chosen
segments. In addition, with the progress of the pipeline in oncology and the launch of Lynparza,
we're signaling here that oncology is the emerging sixth growth platform.
In terms of Brilinta, I think it's fair to say it was a very good year for Brilinta. There were a number
of events, both commercially, but also in terms of the evidence base and the regulatory
environment which had the effect of increasing confidence around this product and how it could
help patients.
And this translated into share gains. You can see here on the left-hand side the leading indicator
for the hospital market in terms of units purchased. You can see here we've moved ahead of our
competitor and that continues the trend into 2015. On the right-hand side, a lagging indicator;
you can see here the NBRx trend, again, is in favor of this product.
If we look at discharge share in the U.S., and again, this is part of this halo effect and confidence
around this product. We saw discharge share moved up across all markets with the exception of
Germany. One thing I'd like to point out is that the discharge share in the U.S. is actually quite a bit
lower than what we've seen in Europe. So there is an opportunity there to further increase the
usage of this product for patients.
On the right-hand side, you can see a number of market shares, an uptake graph here. And
again, we have a good trajectory there across the business with this product. Also interestingly,
right now in the U.S., around 20% of patients make it to 12 months. In Europe, that figure is higher,
it's around 50%. So our view is that this flow of evidence should further encourage the usage of
this product for longer terms.In terms of diabetes, broad performance here. Firstly, just starting at the bottom; Onglyza. We
had historically directed resources away from Onglyza to focus on Farxiga and the Dual Chamber
Pen. I think to-date that has proven to be an effective decision. We've been able to essentially
hold the business there. There was some decline in share over the year, but NBRx towards the
end of the year were actually stable. For Byetta, again, a good performance considering the level
of focus.
Bydureon, we launched the Dual Chamber Pen, and Farxiga – I'll come back to Bydureon in the
next slide. For Farxiga again, strong growth. This class is extremely attractive. It has a number of
attributes. If we looked at switches, people are coming off insulin as well as moving up from their
performance . So a very diverse group of patients there. Despite what is a very competitive
environment, we've been able to hold our share. And again, we continue to do well with Farxiga.
The other dimension here, which is not necessarily visible to people, is outside of the U.S., we
have a very dominant position here with Farxiga. And you can see across markets, which launched
for the U.S., continued uptake there. So, again, it's an encouraging trend.
So, Bydureon, we launched the Dual Chamber Pen. We'd covered this in Q3, but you did see a
very strong uptake and reception to this device. It's a device which is popular with patients, and
you can see there we were able to grow our share in a market itself which I think probably
surprised some people in terms of how much it grew.
On the right-hand side, you can see new prescriptions for the tray which is the legacy
configuration and the new Dual Chamber Pen. What's interesting about this chart, you can see
there's around a 40% split. If you break that down, 70% of the patients who are NBRx for the
Bydureon Pen are actually new to the product. So, it's not purely just a switching out of patients
who were on the old configuration to the new Dual Chamber Pen which, again, is encouraging.
In terms of Symbicort, we spent some time with this at Q3. We signaled to you that we would
expect pressure in Q4 and early this year, particularly in the U.S. around pricing. I think that has
come to pass. Again, we view this as a step change. We were aware this was coming. We are
prepared for it, and we're now in that process of moving forward.
For Europe, there were a number of analogues or mandatory price cuts. Part of our argument
here and interest in this portfolio and this product in particular, of course, is the defensive nature
of the devices. And when we look at the volumes in Europe, we've been able to maintain our
volume share there. And for emerging markets, again, this is a very attractive product. It has a
relatively low profile in terms of sales right now in emerging markets relative to Pulmicort.
For emerging markets overall, firstly with China, you can see here strong growth has continued. If
we look at the MIT IMS (17:34) share in China, essentially, we would double the market growth
rate. So, again, we feel very confident about our business in China. We often get asked, are you
too reliant on China. You can see here, this is the growth rate of emerging markets outside of
China ex-factory and there's a nice trend there as we start to see the growth platforms have an
increasing share of the business in emerging markets.
In terms of Japan, ex-factory, there was a negative number. If we look in-market, we grew well
ahead of the market. The market overall itself did contract but we grew ahead of the market
both in the full year and also in the quarter.
You can see there a strong performance particularly from Nexium where we've taken share.
We've been able to hold our place with Crestor despite the presence of some competitive
dynamics there. And Symbicort, again, we were able to hold our share quite comfortably. In termsof quarter one, that's the last quarter that we'll see the effect of the price drops earlier in this
year and we believe we're well positioned for growth in Japan in 2015.
And in conclusion, we've also got some exciting news coming. We'll update you more fully on this
in quarter one. Firstly with Movantik, we're preparing to launch in the U.S. There's the news today,
of course, with Duaklir. And in Europe, we're now at advanced stages of launching this product
and we have a very exciting uptake so far in Europe with Lynparza, where we're already seeing its
impact on patients. There was a large group of patients who were aware of their BRCA status, in
advanced disease, who were waiting for this product and we've seen a very rapid uptake as the
slide indicates here so far. And we'll give you some more color around this good news in quarter
one.
With that, I'll hand over to Marc.
`Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Luke, and good afternoon, everyone. So I'm going to walk you through the financial
performance and the financial priorities for 2014, a review of those, and then give some views
about 2015.
First of all on 2014, as Pascal has mentioned, we have met our guidance for the year – our
upgraded guidance for the year. We have continued to invest behind our accelerating pipeline.
And we have also invested behind our growth platforms, especially in the last quarter of the year.
And I want to signal here that the investment behind those growth platforms in the fourth quarter
of the year has peaked.
We continue to redeploy across our profit and loss statement. We try to keep the largest
possible flexibility on our balance sheet. We are trying to generate cash rapidly, and you will see
some measure of this. And we also have taken a loan at the end – a bond at the end of the year
which was also very oversubscribed. So, let me turn to the explanation about the type of
redeployment we do.
If you look at the base year of 2012, we were spending about a third of our expenses on G&A.
And you see now, this ratio has reduced to a quarter, to 24%. Most of the money is allocated to
the sales, marketing and medical expenses. And I'll provide two examples of these – of items
which have been reduced. Predominantly, it's IT cost and also the facilities cost. If you look at the
facilities cost, it's interesting to know that the R&D facilities costs have reduced in these two
years by 30%. So, we try to reduce the cost of our footprint to be able to devote more money to
the projects.
I was talking about the cash generation. This provides a view of our cash conversion cycle. We
were at 69 days of sales in 2012. We will finish the year 2014 at 45 days of sales, which I think is a
very good performance. We have provided some comparison to the industry for this. And we do
not have the comparator for 2014. But you can see the progression, at least for AstraZeneca's
metrics, from 69 days to 45 days over the last two years. We are going to continue those efforts
in cash generation. This is important for us to be able to fund our development.
On the debt and cash – on the debt side, we have this credit rating with Moody, A2. AA- with
Standard & Poor's. As I was mentioning earlier, we had a bond in November, we took a bond in
November at the rate of 0.875%. This bond was four times oversubscribed. And we finished the
year with a net debt of $3.2 billion, so it gives us a lot of financial flexibility.Comparison for the quarter four 2014 to the fourth quarter 2013, as you can see, the rate of
increase on Core R&D as well as Core SG&A is – are important. On R&D, it was supporting the
pipeline, the growing pipeline, predominantly immune-oncology, but also respiratory and the
biologics as well as our large program, PARTHENON behind Brilinta.
For the SG&A, this was predominantly the integration of BMS, the sort of mechanical impact of it,
but also the launches of Farxiga, Bydureon Pen, as well as later in the year, Lynparza and the
preparation of Movantik. We also had, in the later part of the year, the integration of Almirall.
So, all these points to a very opportunistic investment in quarter four 2014. And as I said earlier
on, we estimate that this investment has now peaked.
Again, we have fully met our 2014 upgraded guidance. You can see on the right side of this slide
the ratios. Our gross profit was at 81%, core R&D at 19%, core SG&A at 39%. And we have also
provided an indication about the core tax rates for both 2014 and 2013. So, you have an
improvement of the two core (24:28) tax rates of about 4%. We met the guidance, did a little bit
better, at 4.28%. And you have a decline of 8% we had announced. We had guided for a 10%
decline in EPS.
So, now just – Pascal mentioned it earlier on. We have made a reclassification of the U.S. branded
pharmaceutical fee in 2014. We did this over the fourth quarter of the year, and you have $113
million. This is for the second half, the impact of the second half of 2014. In terms of annualized
impact, this represents about 2% on our U.S. brands. Obviously, it varies brand to brand, but it's
about 2%. Pascal mentioned the 4%. If you look at the quarter impact, this is 4%, 2% on half year.
So, this is the reclassification of the excise fee that the U.S. government is levying. And we used
to treat it as an SG&A like the rest of the industry. We are now taking it as a sales deduction from
the second half of 2013.
A word about the guidance. It's probably hard to read the little note at the bottom. It says we are
assuming that the launch of Nexium generic is imminent. It's a very important assumption in
defining our guidance for the year 2015 on our sales revenue, so we plan first to decline by mid-
single-digit percentage. The core EPS will increase by low-single-digit percent.
And then we're also providing some sensitivity for the currency. They have obviously impacted
many companies including AstraZeneca. On the left, you have the average rate for 2014, as well
as where they are on average for the month of January. And then on the right of this slide, we
have provided a sensitivity analysis on both the sales and the core operating profits for the major
currencies. You will note that some of these impacts are negative. Some of them are positive.
Obviously, we have countries where we have more costs than revenues and the opposite is also
true.
We had a very – we continued to have a very busy year in business development. On the
respiratory front, we integrated first Almirall and did a deal with Synairgen. We had the
cardiovascular, also disposal of metreleptin. And oncology, you see there a variety of different
transactions. So, we continue to focus our business development on the three core areas. This is
the only areas where we are investing for business development.
And the deal that we announced this morning, we had acquired first the deal with Almirall, and
this is in a way complementary to this Almirall transaction. We now obtained from Actavis the U.S.
and Canada rights for the Almirall part of the portfolio and also another product in the respiratory
area called Daliresp, which is an oral PDE4 used in COPD as an adult, in particular for patients
who are refractory to ICS/LABA.So, this complements the acquisition we did with Almirall. It makes us in possession of a global
portfolio and also a very good DPI on the U.S. market. The consideration is $600 million and
there's also an additional $100 million payment which contains quite a lot of different contractual
obligations which have to be resolved, waivers, a non-compete clause and all sort of agreements
between Almirall, Actavis and AstraZeneca. This has been resolved, and we were very happy to
announce it this morning.
So, overall, it gives another focus for us on the respiratory area after a very good year on the
respiratory platform with our products.
With this, I'm going to pass the ball to Briggs.
`Briggs Morrison, Chief Medical Officer `
Thanks, very much, Marc. So, good to see you all. Since we just met with you in November, I'll try
not to repeat too much of what we talked about at the Investors' Day. I'll give you a top-line
summary of 2014 and then highlight some of the things that you should look for as we go into
2015.
So, again, I think it was a very good year from an R&D point of view. I think I mentioned at the
Investors' Day that we have set for ourselves this aspiration of improving the lives of 200 million
patients. And we understand that that requires individual healthcare professionals to sit down
with patients, talk to them about their disease and talk to them about treatment options, and
eventually recommend to them an AstraZeneca product.
And so, we understand it's our obligation to generate evidence, strong evidence, and the kind of
evidence that healthcare professionals are going to need to have that conversation. And we think
2014 has been a good year for us in terms of generating that kind of evidence.
The outstanding performance Pascal referred to in terms of NDA approvals for new molecular
entities, which we think is at the top of the charts for our industry; we've talked a lot about
rebuilding the Phase III pipeline, I think we've made good progress there; and focusing our R&D
spend on our core therapeutic areas. As I mentioned previously, about 90% of our spend now in
2015 will go into our three core therapeutic areas.
This slide I showed you at Investors Day, there's a couple of updates since we met with you in
November from a pipeline point of view. The submissions, both in the U.S. and EU, for lesinurad,
the submission in the U.S. for saxa/dapa fixed dose combination, the approval in both the U.S. and
Europe for Lynparza, and the approval for Movantik in Europe and the de-scheduling of (30:54) in
the U.S.
So, again, we think some highlights of things that have happened since we saw you in November.
I have a couple of slides to go through, each of our core therapeutic areas, with a couple of other
advances that have happened since November.
So, first, let's start with RIA. I think many of you probably saw the data we presented at ACR,
three key molecules; sifalimumab, which is an antibody against interferon. The Phase II data in
lupus, in which we had a positive trial, looked like a good molecule. Mavrilimumab, the Phase II
data – Phase IIb data in rheumatoid arthritis, DMARD-IR population again, hit the key endpoints
and had a favorable safety profile we think and, of course, the lesinurad data, the Phase III gout
data which is the foundation of our submission to regulators around the world.
The other program that has started since we met with you in November is a program, that I don'tpatients. So, in genus step two (32:00) patients, the standard of care is an ICS plus a reliever,
essentially what patients get. There's a fair amount of data to suggest that patients are not
particularly compliant with their ICS. And so, as their asthma starts to worsen, they just use their
short-acting beta-agonist, and they never really get the anti-inflammatory effect that they need.
So, this program underlying it is a hypothesis that in fact, if you gave them Symbicort as their
reliever, they would actually get both the fast-acting beta-agonist and the anti-inflammatory. It
builds on this smart concept that we have in many countries around the world, the maintenance
and reliever therapy that we have with Symbicort which is enabled by the fact that formoterol is
such a fast-acting beta-agonist. So, this program has just got under way since we met with you.
Cardiovascular and metabolic, the regulatory submissions for saxa/dapa, we've started now a
program with Farxiga in type 1 diabetes with the hypothesis that you would potentially be able to
decrease insulin dosages, maybe minimize hypoglycemia, get some of the weight loss and anti-
hypertensive effects that you get with Farxiga. So, that program is now under way. And we've
started the CV outcomes trial for Epanova in a targeted population of patients who have high
triglycerides and low HDL.
The PEGASUS trial, I'm sure many people in the room would like me to talk more about the data
from the PEGASUS trial. You know I can't do that. But I do invite you to come to San Diego in
March where it will be presented at ACC. And you can then see the full data package of the
PEGASUS trial.
And again, we do have many ongoing outcomes trials, this concept of continuing to generate
new evidence on Brilinta. We'll probably have a CV outcomes trial reading out every year over the
next couple of years.
Some recent highlights of what's happened in oncology. We've talked about the Lynparza
approval. The label is slightly different in Europe than the U.S. Europe is the maintenance
indication. In the U.S., it's the people who've failed three prior therapies, but all for patients who
have BRCA1-mutant ovarian cancer. We filed Iressa in the U.S. and have a PDUFA date in the third
quarter.
Some other sort of key milestones of things that have completed as we've gone through the
remainder of 2014. We've completed the enrollment in the trial that will support the 9291
approval – 9291 filing – hopefully an approval – in the second quarter of this year. We also
completed the enrollment of the mesothelioma study with tremelimumab. This is a placebo-
controlled trial. That trial is now fully enrolled.
We have completed the enrollment in the triplet study in melanoma, a BRAF inhibitor plus MEK
inhibitor, plus PD-L1. The concept there trying to ask whether we can combine immunotherapy
with these small molecules. That program, we have completed the enrollment.
And then to say a couple of things about ARCTIC and the ADJUVANT trials. So the ARCTIC Phase
III trial, I want to be very clear there, two arms to the trial. One arm of the trial is in patients who
are PD-L1 positive, where essentially we're trying to confirm what we think will happen ATLANTIC
(35:19), so patients get randomized standard of care or monotherapy PD-L1. That part of the trial
is open and recruiting.
The second arm, arm B of that trial is in patients who are PD-L1 negative. And that is a forearm
trial of treme alone, 4736 alone, the combination for standard of care.That arm has not started to enroll yet. We now have a clear view of our dosing strategy and that
arm should open up very soon. I'm not going to say much more about that dosing strategy. We'll
talk about that at ASCO. And I'll talk about that in just a minute.
So the ARCTIC monotherapy arm is open. The combination therapy arm should open shortly. And
then the first patient has been enrolled in the ADJUVANT trial. To our knowledge, this is the first
ADJUVANT trial with a PD-1, PD-L1 inhibitor, being run with NCI Canada. So we're very excited to
get that under way.
And then finally, for the murine OX40, we have a Phase I program where we have monotherapy
combination with PD-L1, which was already enrolling. We've now opened up the combination with
the treme arm. There's a fourth arm, which is a combination with rituximab, which is open but we
haven't dosed yet.
And I think it's important to highlight that now that we have a clear view of our dosing strategy for
the combination of 4736 with treme, we anticipate that over the course of this year we could
open between – somewhere around 13 what I call registration trials. They could be Phase II or
Phase III registration trials. So, they're either ongoing or will open this year. In that constellation,
we think probably about half of those will be combination using the 4736 treme combination.
This is the exact same slide I showed you at Investors Day of news flow that you should anticipate
as we go through the year. When I put the slide together, I didn't anticipate that every single row
would get a green check. Somewhere along the way, we might get a red X.
But at least so far, of the ones we told you in November would read out over the 2015 news flow
cycle, the things that – there's green checks. So, I think I've gone through most of these in terms
of things we've accomplished.
The one new one that I'll just highlight here is the – was not on the chart when I showed it to you
in November – is the uveal melanoma study with selumetinib. This is a trial of dacarbazine versus
dacarbazine plus selumetinib. As the events have accrued in that trial, it's now looking like that
trial could read out this year. And depending on when that reads out, it could potentially even be
filed this year. So, I just wanted to add that as a new line on our potential news flow.
And then just to drill a little bit more into news flow in oncology through 2015, we have a number
of abstracts at AACR. I've just highlighted a couple of them here; the Phase I data for our c-MET
inhibitor, and our PI3 kinase beta/delta inhibitor. At ASCO, there will be – for PD-L1 monotherapy,
we'll have an update on the non-small cell lung cancer population as well as the head/neck
population, and as I referenced earlier, the triplet combination of BRAF/MEK/4736.
We'll also have an update on the combination study in non-small cell lung cancer. This is the Phase
Ib dose escalation study, combining 4736 with treme to try to set some expectations. At this
point, we've dosed about 70 patients in various cohorts as we've done the dose escalations.
Some started at lower doses, the more recent patients being enrolled in the dose range where
we think we'll take into Phase III. And some of them will have a relatively short follow-up because
they've been dosed more recently.
But it gives you a feel for rough numbers of patients that we'll be presenting and I think that will
help inform you of what our dosing strategy is. The items on the right-hand panel are things that
we also think have – not entirely sure when these will – the data will come out. So, I'll just tick
through them. As I said, the Phase II data for 9291; I talked already about the uveal melanoma trial
for selumetinib. There's also some data that will come out sometime this year in pediatric
neurofibromatosis. Some scientists at the NIH have been studying selumetinib in that disease andhave some interesting data which they'll be sharing with the scientific community sometime this
year.
The ATLANTIC trial which is our third line, potentially fast registration trial, that data should mature
as the year progresses. And there could be an avenue for us to present some of that. The
treme/meso trial, as I said, it's fully enrolled. And we have a series of interim analyses to look at
the data as the events accrue. I think the latest that we would have all the events accrued and be
able to report out on that would be the end of the year. But there's a possibility, depending on
how the data comes out, it could come out earlier.
For the 2014, which is our dual mTOR inhibitor, there's data both in combination with fulvestrant,
Faslodex and a trial in combination with paclitaxel where there's some interesting data in
squamous cell lung cancer. The WEE1 inhibitor, there's a trial comparing standard chemotherapy
plus or minus the WEE1 inhibitor which also may read out this year, and some Phase II data for our
c-MET inhibitor in papillary renal cell carcinoma.
So, those are some other things that could hit your radar as the year progresses. So I think with
that, I'll stop and open it up to Pascal to take questions.
`Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Briggs. So, I'll be – very quickly conclude and move to the Q&A session. Just in summary,
we are very much on track. I think this is really the message to you. We delivered our upgraded
guidance exactly where we said we would do. Our growth platforms are very much on track,
growing 15% this year all together.
We invested quite a lot in 2014 particularly in the last quarter of the year. That's very clear. But as
Marc said, our investment has peaked. We felt 2014 was clearly a special year because if you think
about it, we had many launches. It's really rare that one single company has to deal with so many
launches. We had several launches or relaunches in diabetes. We still have Brilinta in launch mode.
We continued relaunching our respiratory franchise, as you know, that for a period of time in the
past had probably been neglected a little bit. And then we had to start preparing for Lynparza,
start preparing for Movantik. So, quite a substantial investment.
Moving into 2015, I think we are in a different phase where, of course, we're going to have to
work on our productivity and then manage our expenses. We believe we have a plan. We believe
we can do it. The pipeline is very much on track. If anything, in many areas we're ahead of what
we expected but very much on track to deliver. And just to remind you, our core EPS in 2015
should grow by, I'd say by low-single-digit percent.
So, essentially, our expenses – our investment has peaked in 2014, and our EPS in 2014 bottomed
out, and we hope to grow by low-single digit right in 2015. So, I'll stop here and open the session
for Q&A. Maybe Alexandra and then Sachin and Jeff (43:18).
Q&A
Q - `Alexandra M. Hauber-Schuele, Analyst, UBS AG (Broker) `
Thank you. This is Alexandra Hauber from UBS. Briggs, I just wanted to clarify that I understood
something correctly, which was you said you're going to start 13 registrational trials for the PD-L1
overall, of which half of it in the combination. Is that correctly what you said? Okay.
Okay. And then I know you're not going to say much more on the dosing of ARCTIC, but maybe
you would say – tell us a little bit more how many patients you have now seen in the Phase Ibstudy. You said about 40 a month ago. Where is that number now? And on the basis of how many
patients will we able to feel confident to determine that – or you seem to already have
determined it, but how many patients should you actually then do that dose-finding decision?
Secondly, a question on this huge spike we've seen on SG&A, almost $0.5 billion year-on-year
increase, or quarter-on-quarter increase. I know some of that was the fee. I get conceptually what
you're doing, but could you please give us some color on exactly what those incremental $300
million or $400 million were spent?
Then, lastly on Symbicort. We've always seen an impact in the fourth quarter. And in the press
release, you've been referring to increased co-pay assistance in anticipation of the formulary
changes. Can you just give us roughly some color what exactly is that that you're doing so that we
already have – in terms of the increased co-pay? Is that similar to the card you have for Farxiga
and Xigduo?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
So, we start with Briggs and Marc for the expenses and Luke for Symbicort.
A - `Briggs Morrison, Chief Medical Officer `
Yeah. So, the Phase Ib study in non-small cell lung cancer where we're doing the dose
escalations, as I said, will have somewhere in the order of 70 patients...
Q - `Alexandra M. Hauber-Schuele, Analyst, UBS AG (Broker) `
Now?
A - `Briggs Morrison, Chief Medical Officer `
...when we present at ASCO, and that's the data set that we're using to make the decisions.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Regarding what you referred to as the spike of SG&A, so I think I can tell you that the totality of
the increase has been spent behind the growth brands. So, in other words, no increase has gone
toward the established brands.
The biggest part of the increase has gone to diabetes. And in diabetes, you have two factors.
The mechanical sort of integration of the BMS part, and there is also an organic growth in
launching and promoting Farxiga and launching the Dual Chamber for Bydureon. So, this is the
largest part it.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
And just to add, Marc, think about two launches in diabetes, Bydureon with Dual Chamber Pen
and then Xigduo in the United States. On top of it, we got to 12 months post launch of Farxiga.
So, we were able to start the DC (46:16). So, there's an element of DCC (46:17) that didn't exist
before also in the United States. And there are many other things, as Marc said, but those are
certainly important points. Luke, do you want to cover Symbicort?
A - `Luke Miels, Executive VP-Global Portfolio & Product Strategy `
Sure. I think to take it a little bit further back, we'd anticipated that something like this might haveWhat we're trying to do is to remove the impact for the patient at the point of conversion.
I don't want to give too much color on it. Because we had this time to prepare, we were able to
be able to combine a number of programs together which we're confident will enable us to
compete. So, I think we can give a little bit more color around whether that's worked in Q1.
Q - `Alexandra M. Hauber-Schuele, Analyst, UBS AG (Broker) `
Okay.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
The idea is really to make sure that those patients who lose cover and access are not
disadvantaged and can stay on the product. And, in fact, the early indication we have is quite
encouraging, but it's very early days. So, Sachin?
Q - `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
`Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Bank of America. Questions on a similar topic. So, firstly, on the CTLA-4 PD-L1 combo,
as you said you sorted dosing. Is there anything else material pending for that study start, really
just administrative here?
Secondly, on the six to seven combo starts, how many different tumors is that across? And then
related, in the different tumors, are you using the same dose across the different tumors? And if
you're not, if you could contrast that versus Bristol, who I think are using different doses. That's
kind of topic one.
Topic two is just on the guidance. Your earnings guidance is very clear. I wonder if you could just
help me with some of the mechanics in between. Any color on how much SG&A could fall on any
additional kind of, on the divestment income over and above metreleptin? Thanks.
A - `Briggs Morrison, Chief Medical Officer `
Yeah. So for the – to start the combo study, it is more administrative. I think we are – have a very
clear view of how that will work. I think for today, I probably won't give you as precise answer on
the number of tumor types. What we've talked about previously clearly are lung cancer and head
and neck cancer, and you know those programs. So, I think I'll pause on that one.
And then, what was the third part of your question?
Q - `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
If it is more than two tumors, which I'm guessing it is, is it the same dose across all, and contrast
that versus Bristol who are using different dosing?
A - `Briggs Morrison, Chief Medical Officer `
Yeah. Currently, our assumption is that it will be the same dose across all. But that's probably not
as firm as a final answer just yet.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
So, returning to your question of guidance for 2015, we tried to make it as clear as possible. We
gave you the assumption we are taking on the imminent launch of Nexium generic. We have also
provided the guidance on the sales line, and we also provided guidance on the EPS slice. We arenot going to provide any specific guidance on any line of the P&L as we did for 2014 as we
manage our operating expenses and all other factors affecting our company together. Just a very
rough indication since you asked for it, the SG&A will probably decrease in value and in
percentage compared to 2014.
Yeah. Sachin, I think maybe just to add on this is we gave a top line and a bottom-line guidance.
And we don't want to give more details at this point, not because we want to be difficult but
simply because you have to – I mean, I know you realize it's a very fluid environment with a lot of
assumptions. One big assumption is Nexium. We assume the launch of generics is imminent.
That's our going-in assumption.
Now exactly when do they launch is not defined, as you know, because they have to build
inventory. They have had approval from the FDA that requires the solution tests to be performed
on the first batches. So, precisely when? We know it's imminent. We know exactly that they're
going to launch soon, but precisely when, we don't know. We don't know the pricing strategy that
they would pursue so that we don't know the speed of decline.
So, we really want to keep enough flexibility to be able to be entrepreneurial and flexible and
redeploy as we have done in 2014, redeploy to take advantage of opportunities when they arise.
And so, the commitment we give our investors and our shareholders is we will deliver what we
said. We're going to do just like we did in 2014. And we want flexibility in between to be able to
be entrepreneurial and adjust to the circumstances. Jeff? (50:58)
Q - `James D. Gordon, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
Thanks. James Gordon from JPMorgan. Three questions, please. One was on Symbicort. When I
look at the Q4 price and mix in the U.S., it looks quite – it's about 19%. So, I see some of that is
exceptional to do with the excise fee as well. So, what would be the true underlying negative
price and mix in Symbicort and would that be a good run rate for 2015 or are there other reasons
it might look quite different for 2015?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
So, just a quick point. We don't give guidance product by product. But having said that, I mean, I'm
sure Luke can give you some more color on it.
A - `Luke Miels, Executive VP-Global Portfolio & Product Strategy `
Yeah. I think it's very much what we've said at Q3 which is we would expect pricing pressure.
There were plans that we were prepared not to lower our price to that point. So, we've tried to
do that. I think it's fair to say we had a very strong year in 2014. To see that again in 2015, again
we've signaled that there would be more pressure there.
Q - `James D. Gordon, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
And on the pricing, do you have anything to indicate that they had secured some positioning not
just for 2015 but also for 2016. Have you signed multi-year contracts or could we see another
step-down?
A - `Luke Miels, Executive VP-Global Portfolio & Product Strategy `
I'd rather not disclose that at this point because we see that as competitive. But clearly, our aim is
to get that mix right. We see this as a step change. There is the excise fee, of course, that playsinto that which can distort it a little bit. But again, we see this as initial step change and then we're
back out there competing for share right now.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Jeff (52:29), the one thing I said before, but just to restate it, is that the impact of the excise fee
in quarter four was 4% right across the board. It's a little bit more for Symbicort actually. You saw
in Marc's slide on an annualized basis, it was 2.8%, so a little bit more than 4% for the first quarter
is one thing that you should take into account.
And in terms of long-term contracts, we see every day that if a better offer comes along, long-
term contracts are reopened by our customers immediately. So, it's really hard to say I'm going to
sign up a very long-term contract. We have some of those, but we always know that people
reopen those contracts. They're the customers, in the end. So, we try to negotiate, but it's not
that easy.
Q - `James D. Gordon, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
Thank you. And the second question was just on OX40. I know you've got three products, or
three molecules, in development. And it seems to keep getting more and more crowded. As we
know, Roche has got one, Pfizer has got one, GSK announced they've got one. Do you think t's
going to be very, very crowded in OX40, even more? And is there going to be a lot of
differentiation between all the different products?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Well, I mean, Briggs, maybe you want to cover this. As you know, we have three. We have the
murine – the (53:46) antibody, and then we have the fusion protein. And the fusion protein
potentially could be differentiated from everything else and be more effective. The question is
what safety profile will we get. So, we will know when we have run the Phase I study.
So, fusion protein has the potential to be differentiated. Then the rest is probably a question of
combination and a question of speed. Briggs?
A - `Briggs Morrison, Chief Medical Officer `
Yeah. So, I think it will be crowded based upon what we've heard from competitors, of people
entering, seems to be an attractive target to many people. As Pascal said, we have and you
noted we have three different things that we want to sort out which one would be the best. How
to differentiates, whether they differentiate, time will tell.
It was similar, I think, in the PD-1, PD-L1. There were hypotheses about one is better than the
other, and time will tell. But I do think that it's an attractive target. We think it is. And we do think
that, again, we wouldn't be surprised that the real place that these show up is in combinations.
And so, having available our own CTLA-4 and our own PD-L1 to think about combinations with
OX40 we think positions us well. But for sure, it's going to be crowded.
Q - `James D. Gordon, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
Thanks. And then just a final question which was that the Farxiga/Forxiga prescription trends look
really good. But you still don't – I haven't seen in your reports exactly what the sales are. And is
that because there's very big discounting or couponing and that's why the sales don't look as
impressive as the prescription trends, or are you going to start reporting the sales for 2015?A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Well, actually no. It was simply that our competition didn't report sales, so we decided not to
report sales. So, we'll report sales in 2015, no doubt. Now, for both Symbicort and Farxiga in the
first half of this year what we have to deal with is the change in formulary listings that you are well
aware of. And so, we have plans to deal with those, but certainly we have built in our plans or so a
short-term impact on our trajectory both for Symbicort and for the Farxiga.
And yeah, Q1 sales, we'll report the Farxiga sales – well, the Farxiga family, Farxiga (55:58).
Q - `James D. Gordon, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Should I maybe ask one question from our participants on the telephone, and then come back to
the room. Is there a question on the telephone?
A - Operator
(56:22)
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Okay. Well, the name doesn't show up anyway. Ah, okay. So, Tim Anderson. So, Tim, go ahead.
There's nothing on the screen.
Q - `Timothy Minton Anderson, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Thank you. And I joined late so I apologize if you've already touched on some of these things. On
mergers and acquisitions – it's a question I've asked in the past – how much of a priority is it for
management to pursue transactions that would specifically pull forward the trough year of 2017
and, I guess, the specific question here is, are you willing to say that there is an upper limit to the
size of the deals that you would be considering in the next year or two. Second question is just on
the PEGASUS results that came out that were positive. Can you just help quantify what that
means for Brilinta realistically in terms of an uptick?
And then last question, right around the time that your call started, there's been some news on
the wires that Pfizer is buying Hospira for $19 billion. My guess is that you would probably concur
that the odds of Pfizer coming back after Astra now seem even lower than they may have been
before, but I would love to hear your updated perspective on that.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Tim. So, I mean, we'll start with your last question and probably leave it at your own
conclusion. On the Pfizer, no. I mean, the answer to your question, I don't have it. But I can only
deal with probabilities, and I think it's relatively logical to think the probability of a return is
substantially reduced. I guess that's probably the only thing we could say at this point.
In terms of PEGASUS, Luke, maybe you want to cover this. Just one thing is that you have to wait –
we have to wait for the data to be in the label to be able to fully promote that new indication for
PEGASUS – for Brilinta, sorry.A - `Luke Miels, Executive VP-Global Portfolio & Product Strategy `
Yeah. And there's obviously a limit to what I can speculate right now because of the status of the
data. But ultimately, this should have a positive impact for this product because you've increased
confidence on the part of individual cardiologists that are using this in the lab. When the patient is
discharged from the hospital, they're more likely to have stronger instructions to continue
treatment. So, this should have an impact we hope on the days of treatment, the length of
treatment.
I mentioned before that many patients are not making it to a full 12 months. In a number of
markets, for example, in Europe where you have reimbursement, you have this higher initial
conversion. And many of these patients stay on for longer, as I said, 50%. But a number of
healthcare systems stop these patients immediately at 12 months.
In the U.S., by contrast, you have less patients coming on initially, but that's changing rapidly. Once
they're on the product, they do tend to stay on for longer, beyond 12 months, which is not
something that we promote. And I think there's just a broader halo effect, if we look across the
whole program and out over a number of years in different indications, gives people confidence
that this mechanism is doing what they hoped that it would do.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Just maybe to add is that, a couple of points, is we were always confident in our PLATO data, and
we defended that study. But at the end of the day, we had to accept it was only one study. Now,
we have a second study that reconfirms the benefit of this product in ACS. So, hopefully, we can
hope that this debate is behind us, the controversy is behind us. And as Luke said, it will help
people build confidence.
But the second thing is that over time – and I say over time because 2015, we cannot really
promote this. We cannot promote this data at all. So, we have to wait for the label. But over time,
it will help us in particular in the U.S. because in the U.S., you only have 20% of patients who stay
on the drug for 12 months, in Europe, 50%. And quite frankly, it was already the case with Plavix
before, and certainly very much the case for Brilinta.
But as we demonstrated through PEGASUS but also with the help of studies like APOLLO, they
really show that patients who have had an event and are not treated with OAP are very much at
the high risk of facing a recurring event. If we use this body of evidence, we have good
arguments to convince physicians that they should really make sure their patients stay on the
drug. Marc, do you want to cover the last point – ?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Briefly, I mean, it's a difficult question to answer, is there a limit to a deal. I think we don't really
look at it in such a way. For us, we explore opportunities by looking at whether this outside
opportunity is aligned with our core strategies.
The second criteria we use is are we going to do a better job than the team in place, are we
going to be a better owner, and the third, obviously, the price and impact on our earnings. So,
these are the three parameters we look. I don't think there are physical limitation to that today. I
mean, the debt market is relatively easy and the cost of the debt is very low. So this, for us, the
debt capacity or the limit to the deal is not what we look at. It has to be absolutely in line with our
strategy, and these are the key areas we look at.A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
I mean, our primary focus is really to turn this pipeline into a reality. We've got a lot of great
projects here that can help patients and create enormous value. We've got to focus on making
this happen. But we will continue looking for opportunities because it is clear that we have a
bridge between now and 2017. We have two years to go that are certainly years where we're
making good progress, but we're also facing headwinds with Nexium and Crestor patent expiries.
So, if we were able to find an acquisition that would help us bridge 2017 and build further strength
in our core areas, we would do it. But as Marc said, the three criteria that we use, we try to follow
in a disciplined manner. And we've looked at many, many opportunities. And it's really hard to find
one that would address our criteria so far. But we'll certainly keep looking.
Q - `Timothy Minton Anderson, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Thank you.
Q - `Nicolas Guyon-Gellin, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
`Nicolas Guyon-Gellin, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc, Morgan Stanley. Three questions, please. The first one is with regards to
the ATLANTIC trial. In light of the recent developments, how would you rate the probability of
filing maybe 4736 on the back of a single-arm trial? And could you discuss the possible scenarios
depending on BMS label in third and second line lung cancer?
The second question is a financial one. Your guidance of flat reported EPS versus revenues down
low-double digit implies significant SG&A cut to the tune of $1.5 billion if my math are correct. So,
don't you see any risk of impacting the U.S. primary-care-oriented growth platform? And could
you give us a few examples of things you can cut without impacting those platforms?
And the final question is a quick respiratory one. Any specific reason behind the strong
performance of Pulmicort in emerging markets in Q4 and is that sustainable? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Great question. So ATLANTIC, maybe Briggs, you want to cover, and Marc should cover the
expenses.
A - `Briggs Morrison, Chief Medical Officer `
So, I think it's fair to say that it's a fairly dynamic environment that we're living in in terms of PD-1,
PD-L1s. I will say that what we've heard from BMS and the readout of their Phase III trial, the Merck
announcements and Roche are sort of what we anticipated evolving in this space which is why we
started ATLANTIC in a third-line population which as best we understood at the time we started
that trial was a population that was still available.
As I said multiple times, the ability for us to file ATLANTIC, of course, depends on exactly what
happens with our competitors in terms of their filing and their labels. And it depends on what
data we generate from that trial. Again, it's a dynamic field, and we have to see what data comes
together. But at this point, we still think there is a window that allows us the strategy we laid out,
which is as a fast-to-market strategy with third line.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `So, Marc, you can go on with the expenses. Let me just quickly cover the Pulmicort question. The
Pulmicort success is really driven by China. That's very much a Chinese event. And it is really quite
an exciting development, I have to say, because – for many reasons. First of all, it's used in
pediatrics, pediatric asthma essentially. In the last couple of years, I mean – and those kids are
treated in nebulizing centers.
In the last couple of years, we've gone from 200, 300 nebulizing centers to more than 2,000.
We've helped build more than 2,000 nebulizing centers in China. And so, we've been able to
bring Pulmicort to all those kids who actually need to be treated. And I think Pulmicort today is one
of the biggest products in the Chinese marketplace actually. It's exciting because we are helping
those kids.
Now, we're moving to homecare treatment. So, we – because the problem is they go to these
nebulizing centers. Some of them are exposed to infections, of course. So, we're trying to now
move to home nebulizing treatments.
And the last thing is that it actually bodes well for the long term because in China, patients today
are treated – I mean, doctors are treating asthmatic patients during the acute phase of asthma.
They don't treat on a maintenance basis. That's why you see Symbicort and Advair are growing,
but they're not that enormous considering the size of China. So, if we do a good educating the
medical profession, there's an enormous potential to treat patients on a maintenance basis in
asthma. And then, there is the whole COPD segment of course.
Marc, you want to cover the....
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah. Just talking about the $1.5 billion decrease on SG&A, I think you're forgetting one very
important part and we have referred to it at the Investor Day. I also mentioned it today. I want to
repeat again, we are going to look and accelerate our exploration for externalization. There's
probably a part that you are – you need to take into account in your modeling. We can't provide
you with any clear indication today. But it is going to be an important part of our revenues for
2015.
Then on the structure of the spend, obviously, our G&A line is going to continue decreasing. If you
look historically, this line has decreased. It will continue decreasing. We're redoubling our effort in
containing our costs on the G&A line.
And then on the sales, marketing and medical, the only indication I can give you is that the
medical is going to increase because this is the evolution of our portfolio from a primary care
portfolio to a specialty care. So, the medical line is going to increase. But the two other lines are
going to be either stable or, for marketing, in reduction.
Q - `Nicolas Guyon-Gellin, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc `
Thanks much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
(01:07:54) some indications. Should I take the next question on the telephone? Mark Clark of
Deutsche Bank. Mark, do you want to go ahead?
Q - `Mark D. Clark, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG (Broker UK) `Yes. Hi, gentlemen. I was sort of intrigued by your comments about China now being your second
largest market. For most of your peers, it's a nice-to-have. But in your case, it's now getting quite
vital.
So, that being the case, I think probably most of us are not quite as attuned to the dynamics of
that market as we would like. So, perhaps you could give us some prognosis for the Chinese
market itself. You've talked about some of your individual products like Pulmicort, but for the
market itself – because I think I've seen data suggesting that the double-digit footfall through
hospitals has dropped to 6%, 7%. And, obviously, the government and the regions are looking to
sort of cut prices. So, are we now looking at an era of high-single-digit growth in China rather than
double digits? Very interested in your thoughts. Thank you.
A - `Luke Miels, Executive VP-Global Portfolio & Product Strategy `
So, I think that it's going to remain a very attractive market in terms of business. I mean, obviously,
respiratory is very important and also cardiovascular. Pulmicort is dominant today. It's a relatively
small part of our business and one that we are very actively seeking to grow along with Brilinta
and the diabetes portfolio, of course. In terms of the outlook for the market, I mean it clearly is
slowing, but it's still at a growth rate of around 12% which is certainly not slow.
In terms of structural changes, I think that's the open debate we've had for a couple of years now.
I think there's a number of people that are of the belief that if the economy further slows, the
government will direct funding into healthcare in the interest of stability. They recognize that they
have a structural challenge in their country, whether it is diabetes, cardiovascular, (01:09:45) also
COPD. So, I think we remain quite optimistic.
In terms of exact numbers, we wouldn't want to give exact numbers at this point for our business,
but it's an attractive market. In the future, it's going to reward innovation. And again, we feel our
pipeline is well represented there, (01:10:01) the next 10 years.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
The 12% market Luke was referring to, I mean, we certainly continue outpacing this quite
substantially as a company. And the market is slowing down; we've seen this before in China.
There was a period of time when it slowed down and then accelerated again. So, it's not because
it's at 12% today which, as Luke said, is a very healthy growth rate in the first place. But it's not
because it's at 12% today and will stay there. It could accelerate again for the reasons Luke was
describing which is the government is going to have to invest more in healthcare, and so that's
going to help the market. Private insurance slowly developing; that will help also access.
And in the end, you're going to have tensions between price breakers like in every other market,
and at the same time, volume expansion. And if you look, for instance, at diabetes, we have with
Onglyza in China, in the half of the countries we manage as a company, the other half was with
BMS and we've now recovered it since October. In the half of the country managed, we have
40% share. So, we try now to achieve this on a national basis. The problem is, of course, this class
of agent is not reimbursed yet. But, when it becomes reimbursed, we will certainly leverage the
market share we've got.
So, we certainly see China as a very, very important market, as we've said. For some companies,
it's less important, but for us, it's very important. We see it as a very, very big market in the future.
As Luke says, there will be more room for innovative medicines as well, cancer and others. And
we have now almost 7,000 people in China. So, that really is going to be a very, very important
country – very important market and very important country for us.Q - `Mark D. Clark, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG (Broker UK) `
Thank you very much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
We have another on the line from Seamus Fernandez of Leerink. Seamus, do you want to go
ahead?
Q - `Seamus C. Fernandez, Analyst, Leerink Partners LLC `
Sure. Thank you so much for the questions. So, just quickly to start off, can you talk a little bit
about the diabetes market and the combination opportunity of the SGLT-2 inhibitor plus the DPP-
4 inhibitor? Maybe how important you think the role in terms of getting combination pricing right
is going to play in the competitive dynamic. Or do you really think that the product is so
differentiated that it will – that important pricing and discounting won't play a significant role?
Second question is again on diabetes. I believe you started a combination trial of the SGLT-2
inhibitor in combination with Bydureon. Can you talk a little bit about the reasons for initiating that
trial? I know there have been some very positive case reports in that regard but would love to
hear your thoughts on that and the strategy of bringing those two products in combination.
And then lastly, the ADJUVANT trial I think is something that really differentiates AstraZeneca
when it comes to the prospects of having a late introduction with your monotherapy. So, can you
talk a little bit about the opportunity in the ADJUVANT setting and how you reach into that
market? And really, maybe give us a little bit of a better sense of the size of that market as you
look at it. Thanks so much.
A - `Luke Miels, Executive VP-Global Portfolio & Product Strategy `
So, I think just at a macro level, we're very, very attracted to the concept of combinations. I think
with the DPP-4s, we've seen good uptake ourselves. I didn't mention it, but we've had a strong
launch of Xigduo in the U.S., very encouraging. So, to have Saxa/Dapa in the portfolio is
something that we're looking forward to.
In terms of pricing structure, I think it's fair to say it's unlikely to be one plus one equals two. Now,
whether that is 1.2, 1.6, 1.5 or 1.8, in some degree, we're going to inherit that structure because, of
course, we're second to the market. But again, we are very encouraged. We think there's a clear
place and it reflects the evolution of the disease, and it makes it easier for patients to take this,
as well as co-payers. So, attractive.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
The SGLT2 plus Bydureon combination, the logic behind this is that some patients who take
SGLT2 regain weight. And then some experts are speculating there's up-regulation (1:14:36) of
glucagon and then people gain appetite and they start eating more.
So, by using SGLT2 in combination with a GLP-1, you could potentially block this increased appetite
and really achieve very, very substantial weight loss reductions, because if you look at the effect
of the SGLT2 and the quantity of glucose people lose when they take an SGLT2, if you calculate
the weight loss impact, it would be much, much more than what you actually see in the clinical
trials. So, the hope is by combining the two, we would see a very, very substantial weight loss so
that that would be the ideal combination for those patients who are diabetic and have excessBriggs, do you want to add anything to that?
A - `Briggs Morrison, Chief Medical Officer `
Yeah. Seamus, then the question about the ADJUVANT opportunity is one that's going to evolve
because obviously, with the increased screening that people are now doing based upon some of
the lung cancer screening trials, some who are estimating that those – I mean, the ADJUVANT
trial is 1b2 and 3A's, right? So, it's earlier-stage patients. And there's – with increased screening,
it's possible that that population will actually increase over what we see today. So, you'll probably
have the standard epidemiology of the presentation by stage. But by the time the ADJUVANT
trial reads out, it may, in fact, be moving patients into earlier stages.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
And as you can imagine, the ADJUVANT setting is going to be very large from what we know
from other products. But basically, what we're trying to do is take a variety of approaches to this
immunotherapy franchise. One is to find a way to get to the market as quickly as possible as
many of our peers are doing. Two is to find indications where we would be first and think about
the long term.
And so, the ADJUVANT is part of that long-term thinking. And then three, of course, is the
combination where instead of being a challenger and trying to catch up, we could, in the
combination setting, we could be actually the leader, either with another company or true leader
depending on what the other combination development looks like. So, certainly, we're
approaching this from a variety of angles.
Should we return to the room and...
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Exane Ltd. `
Thank you. `Simon Baker, Analyst, Exane Ltd. from Exane. Three quick questions. Firstly on the SYGMA study with
Symbicort, can you give us a little bit more of your rationale for doing that study now particularly
as we get close to loss of exclusivity in the U.S.? I do note from clinicaltrials.gov that there don't
appear to be any U.S. sites in that study. Is that partly explained by where you're targeting this
indication?
Secondly on FX, you very helpfully gave us some more sensitivity on FX. I just wonder if you could
go a little bit further and give us the relative proportions or some sense of the relative
proportions of the currencies in the other bucket. So, Australian dollar, ruble, won, et cetera.
And thirdly – and apologies if I missed this earlier – have you given any guidance on the tax rate
for 2015? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
So, two questions for you, Marc, and one for Briggs. Briggs?
A - `Briggs Morrison, Chief Medical Officer `
So, let me take the SYGMA question first. So, remember, I said SYGMA builds off of the SMART
indication which is the Symbicort maintenance and reliever. We don't have SMART in the U.S. So,
you can think about the SYGMA opportunity as a follow-on in the markets where we do have the
SMART indication, which I think addresses your question about where. And again, I think to
Pascal's point in the comments about Pulmicort, if you think about some of these earlier-stageasthmatics in other markets around the world where there's a need for a new therapy as we think
there could be a significant opportunity here although probably unlikely in the U.S.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
So, trying to answer your question on the relative weight of the other currencies, I believe the five
currency that I mentioned on the table are the five main ones among the others. I do not recall
the exact proportion of it, but I assume that these are the five main ones and that the others will
be, obviously, much more limited. I can find this information for you. I don't have it...
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
From memory, I think the ruble and the Australian dollar had a big impact. The ruble, simply – our
business is not that huge, but the drop in the ruble, as you know, is enormous. So, we could get
back to you on this, but those are really two substantial ones.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
The table gives you the – if each of these currencies were impacted by 5%, what would be the
impact. So, obviously, you want to know the relative weight. I don't have the answer for you. I
believe those are the main ones. Regarding the tax rate, you have seen that in 2013, we were
roughly at 20%, 16% in 2014, and 2015 is probably going to be between the two.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Any...yes?
Q - Operator
(01:20:01) from Liberum. A couple of questions, please. On Crestor, could you please help us with
what's still remaining in terms of marketing effort, both in terms of DTC and sales force? And
then on R&D costs, it would appear to me that there's some downward pressure this year with
the PEGASUS study and the saxa/dapa study now ending. Can you give us some sense of what
you feel the upward pressures are through 2015?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah. Well, the upward pressure, and Briggs, jump in if you have more to add – but the upward
pressures are the new projects we've progressed into Phase III, but very much immuno-oncology.
Oncology, as a whole, and immuno-oncology in particular. That's where the pressure is, 13
programs in Phase II, Phase III. This is quite a substantial investment, and we have to support that
franchise. So, we certainly are putting a lot of efforts in this oncology business both from an early
development Phase I/II, but also late-stage development.
Briggs, anything you want to add?
A - `Briggs Morrison, Chief Medical Officer `
No. I think you hit it.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
And Crestor, Luke, I mean, I don't know if you have the numbers in mind, but it's quite small.
A - `Luke Miels, Executive VP-Global Portfolio & Product Strategy `Yeah.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
It's relatively small now.
A - `Luke Miels, Executive VP-Global Portfolio & Product Strategy `
Yeah. It's really focusing on select plans and defending at that level.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Every model in the U.S., Luke, shows that you need to promote products until almost the last day
before patent expiry if you want to maximize the value. But, of course, you promote very
differently and it's much, much lower then. So, our investment behind Crestor has reduced very
substantially. Everything goes behind – not everything, but almost everything especially in the U.S.
and Europe goes behind our growth platforms.
Any more questions? We have one on the line. Who is this?
Q - `Mattias Häggblom, Analyst, Danske Bank A/S (Sweden)
Mattias.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Mattias. Mattias, go ahead.
Q - `Mattias Häggblom, Analyst, Danske Bank A/S (Sweden)
Thanks. It's `Mattias Häggblom, Analyst, Danske Bank A/S (Sweden), Danske Bank Markets. Three questions, please. One of your peers
was recently granted breakthrough designation for its anti-PD-L1 antibody in non-small cell lung
cancer. Could you remind me if you submitted a request for your anti-PD-L1 antibody with the
FDA or not? And if not, why?
Secondly, can you comment on what your gross to net was in the U.S. during 2014 and what to
expect for 2015 as this is very much in investors' mind at these days?
And lastly, with regards to the Almirall portfolio, which was part of your books for the last two
months, you state and report that it generated sales of $30 million. Is that a good run rate to
think for 2015 in this region and this opportunity or was there something in particular to take into
account during the transition phase? Thanks so much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Gross to net question, just to be sure, Mattias, gross to net of what?
A - Operator
The U.S. (01:22:52).
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Total U.S. Okay. Thanks.
A - `Briggs Morrison, Chief Medical Officer `Yeah. So, we don't comment on whether we've submitted for breakthrough. We will obviously tell
you if we were to get breakthrough. What I can tell you is that we continue to have conversations
with FDA. We got breakthrough designation for 9291. We got breakthrough for some of the
antibodies that Pascal referred to earlier in antibiotics. So, we continue to have those
conversations. And should there be a dataset that they get excited about that they would
entertain us applying, I think they would be clear about that. So, that's about all I can say about
the breakthrough at this point.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Marc?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
So, on the impact of Almirall, you have, for the last two months of 2014, the (01:23:35), one other
brand. We also received the approval on Duaklir, and this product is going to be launched. You
must also take into consideration that we received some revenues and milestones from original
partners of Almirall, and these are included in other incomes. These are a substantial amount of
money. So, it's not a – you have impacts not only on the sales level but also on the other income
in the last quarter of 2014.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
And the gross to net, I don't know if we disclose this information. Actually, I don't think we have in
the past. Thomas? We haven't. No. So, I mean, it is, of course, substantial, but we don't disclose
that information. Good.
A - `Thomas Kudsk Larsen, Head-Investor Relations `
There is one more question...
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Sorry?
A - `Thomas Kudsk Larsen, Head-Investor Relations `
One more question.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
One more question, maybe the last one, Thomas. All right.
A - `Thomas Kudsk Larsen, Head-Investor Relations `
It's Matt.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Matt. Do you want to go ahead, Matt?
Q - `Matthew J. Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Thank you very much. It's Matt Weston from Credit Suisse. A couple of questions, if I can. The first
one relates to the income from partnering and/or divestiture of products. I mean, on a simplecalculation, it looks like you're expecting at least $1 billion of income this year if we follow the
guidance around costs and revenue.
Can you confirm that is the realms of the number that you're thinking of? But then can you also
tell us how you're thinking of 2016 and 2017 on a relative income basis? Obviously, if you can't
afford to invest in these assets, which is why you're looking to partner them, the flow of them
should diminish over time and particularly, as you talk about 2017 being the return to earnings
growth, is that from an underlying base without the supplementary income, or you think the
operational performance of the business will accelerate so rapidly that it can overcome the
hurdle of these one-time gains?
And then I know we don't like to talk about reported earnings versus core. But I do notice that in
Q4, there was a $636 million charge in SG&A for the Bristol alliance. Can you explain what that is?
Have you written down the value of what you acquired from Bristol, and if so, why?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Those are great questions. Marc, maybe I'll ask you to answer one of those. But the first question,
we don't disclose specific numbers. I think that the one thing I would say is that you got to think
about this partnering acceleration, however we call it, as a part of our business model. So, it's not
a 2015 or 2016 event. It's an ongoing event.
If you saw what we have coming through the pipeline in preclinical from our two units, you will
understand what I'm talking about. There's a number of projects there and then we can't develop
everything. So, essentially, we had two options, either substantially reduce research and
development and kill a lot of things, or actually decide to indeed take our operating model to its
final end, which is let those units operate really as biotechs, that we actually create value with
other companies.
And we see that from the discussions we are having with a variety of people, we see that we can
create value. So, why stop those projects when we actually can take them to patients and create
value for the company? So, see this as an ongoing part, sustainable part of our business model.
Now, in terms of numbers, I don't have them here, and certainly, we will not comment on those
anyway. But it's not a 2015, 2016 event. It's part of a business model moving forward.
Now the contingent consideration, the BMS. It's actually not bad news in terms of a write-off. It's
actually sort of good news but it's a complex accounting issue that Marc can take you through.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you. So first of all, let me correct. It's not a write-down. It's the other way around. Basically,
we need to account for the future payments or future consideration, contingent consideration
that we would have to pay to BMS.
And as we perform our long-term planning, we get these results and the mechanical formula tells
us how much money we would owe to BMS. And this year, the amount of these obligations has
increased. Therefore, we have to take it to non-core.
So it's not a write-down. It's increasing our contingent obligations, continued consideration and
we'd have to pay obviously for forecast. Correct.
Q - `Matthew J. Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `Understood, Marc. A very quick follow-up there. It was the surprise that it then jumped so
significantly in 4Q. So do you basically revalue your contingent considerations in the fourth
quarter, or in the fourth quarter you substantially increased your expectations for the
performance of diabetes and that led to the revaluation?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
Question is that we do a long-range plan once per year. We do it in the last quarter of the year.
When we have this basis for calculation, we apply it to the formula or to the royalty rate that we
have to pay, and we calculated that down. So it's the first part of your option.
Q - `Matthew J. Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Perfect. Many thanks, indeed.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
...for products and the total sales that we are forecasting. But as Marc said, we do our plan
starting in September culminating with a presentation to the board in November. And in the
course of the last quarter, we revalue the long-range plan and the various parts of that, including
diabetes. And immediately, we have to take this charge to the P&L. Those are the standards. I
know we've had many discussions on the topic. We don't decide the accounting standards. That's
the way we have to do it and we just apply them.
Q - `Matthew J. Weston, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Understood. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Anything you wanted to add?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director `
There was another question on the externalization. I think what we can say, we're not going to
give you any amount, but if you use 2014 as sort of a base, what we can say, that's going to
accelerate. We are going to redouble our effort and it's going to intensify the externalization
projects or negotiation we have with third parties.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
And by the way, as soon as we take this consideration, it has an impact also on our tax rate as you
can imagine because that influence – this contingent consideration has an impact on our taxable
earnings and, of course, the reported tax rate is influenced by this accounting event.
So, I will stop here and then thank you all for your participation and your great questions. And I
wish you a great afternoon. Thank you very much.