Q4 2015 Earnings Call

Operator
Good afternoon. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to AstraZeneca's Full Year and Q4 2015
Results Webcast. Before I hand over to AstraZeneca's Chief Executive, Pascal Soriot, I'd like to
read the Safe Harbor statement.
The company intends to utilize the Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Participants on this call may make forward-looking statements with
respect to the operations and financial performance of AstraZeneca. Although we believe our
expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, by their very nature forward-looking
statements involve risks and uncertainties and may be influenced by factors that could cause
actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking
statements. Any forward-looking statements made on this call reflect the knowledge and
information available at the time of this call. The company undertakes no obligation to update
these forward-looking statements.
I will now hand you over to the venue in London.
Pascal Soriot `
All right. Good morning. Good afternoon, everybody. Thank you so much for joining us today. I'm
Pascal Soriot, I'm the CEO of AstraZeneca. Welcome to the full year and Q4 2015 results
presentation for investors and analysts. We are here live in London, and I know there's quite a
number of you on telephone on the webcast. There's a webcast on astrazeneca.com, and the
presentation is actually posted online for those who want to download it.
I'm joined today by Luke Miels, who is our Executive Vice President for Global Portfolio andMedicines Development, and he's our Chief Medical Officer; and he also is – with him, Marc
Dunoyer, our CFO. In addition, we have Mondher Mahjoubi in the room, Head of Oncology, and
Global Portfolio Strategy, who can also help us answer some of the questions in Oncology you
may have. And we also a number of key members of the AstraZeneca team, (2:15) and some
others as well.
It's really great to see so many of you here today despite a very busy reporting season. I'm sure
that you've been extremely busy in the last few days. We look forward to taking you through the
results and our achievements in 2015. If I may ask you if you could turn to slide 2 please, this is our
forward-looking statements. And then please turn to slide 3.
The plan today is for me provide a short introduction and then hand over to Luke who will give
you an update on our Growth Platform and the launch of New Oncology as a new Growth
Platform, in number six he will define what we call New Oncology for you. Marc will cover the
financials and the guidance, and I'm sure we'll have a lot questions around 2016 overall. Sean will
provide a pipeline and an update on our newsflow for this year. And we'll end with concluding
remarks before we take your questions. We plan to have about 45 minutes for the presentation
and a similar amount of time for the Q&A. So up to about 1 hour and 30 minutes in total.
Please turn to slide 4. Those are the highlights. So total revenue were up 1% to $24.7 billion in the
year. We're pleased we were able to achieve this steady performance and deliver on our
upgraded guidance – Margareta Björk upgraded the guidance. The achievement was, first and
foremost, based on our Growth Platform, they now represents about 57% of our total revenue,
and they grew by 11% last year. The performance of the Growth Platform was supplemented by
the external revenue – externalization revenue as you know that arise from the increasing R&D
productivity and our decision to partner some of the projects that are not part of our focus. And
essentially, what it enables us to do is to increase our focus on our main therapy areas. Core EPS
at – was up 7%. And this is underpinned by the decline in SG&A cost. As we guided you we will
achieve, we delivered a 2% reduction in full year SG&A, and 11% reduction for the quarter four.
Importantly, the pipeline continues to progress. And we have positive newsflow for the year with
two approvals and two regulatory submission acceptances in Q4. If I stay on the pipeline, 2016 will
be a very busy year, as you know, with lots of newsflow that we're expecting, really, news every
month, in fact on average almost every couple of weeks.
On the financial side for 2016, at constant rate, our total revenue is forecasted to decline by low
to single-digit percentage. As you know, we are still dealing with this massive patent expiry issue
that we have to manage. And core EPS is expected to decline by low to single-digit percentage
as well. This guidance incorporates dilution coming from the Acerta and the ZS Pharma
transactions that we announced late last year. And as always, again, this measures at constant
rate. Marc will give you more details later.
So if you turn to slide 5, this is the pipeline newsflow. And we delivered strong newsflow in Q4
with, first and foremost, approval for Tagrisso in lung cancer in the United States and, as you
know, we just got approval in the EU a couple of days ago. Tagrisso is really a cornerstone in our
Oncology pipeline and our lung cancer strategy, and we're really proud to bring this new
medicine in a record time. I never stop mentioning internally that it took us 32 months from first in
human to approval. This is a record development time for us as a company, and we believe –
actually a record in the industry as well.
On top it, we also got approval for Zurampic in the U.S. We got a positive opinion for this product
in the European community. We got positive opinion also for Brilique based on the PEGASUSstudy that supports an indication in patients with a prior myocardial infarction. And finally we
obtained regulatory submission acceptance for brodalumab in psoriasis in the U.S. and EU, and
we are preparing to launch this product in the U.S. together with our partner. We actually
submitted ZS-9 in the U.S. for hyperkalaemia.
These development really conclude a successful year for our pipeline, with a couple of setbacks,
which we have to recognize, including selumetinib in uveal melanoma, that doesn't have an
impact on our core program in lung cancer, but certainly is a setback for this indication, and also a
setback that Sean will cover in more details a little bit later relating to saxa/dapa, and it's only a
timing issue, really. We think we have a way forward.
In 2016, we expect four further regulatory submissions for new products. Please turn to slide 6.
From a financial viewpoint, as I said, revenue was up 1%, Growth Platform 11%, and the total
revenue was up 2% for the quarter, again, 11% for the Growth Platform. So we had a benefit from
externalization revenue as I mentioned before. Core EPS in Q4 was up 22% which really reflects
our ability to deliver on our core SG&A cost reduction as we committed we would do, minus 11%
in the quarter. Core R&D investment ended the year at a point that will allow us to keep it at a
similar level going forward into 2016. We leveraged our revenue down the P&L and you see here,
as I said, the core EPS results.
So to sum up, we've been able to continue the core R&D investment, reduce SG&A costs, and
will continue doing this in 2016. Of course, discipline will be essential as we enter a year that is
certainly challenging as we lose the patent protection on Crestor in the United States. That's that.
I would like to remind you we start in May the first generic introduction, we expect in this guidance
will take place in May. Over the medium term, the performance of our Growth Platforms and
upcoming launches should together with the increasing cost reduction should help us offset the
short-term headwinds that comes from those patent expiries.
With this, I'll hand over to Luke.
Luke Miels `
Thanks, Pascal. So it's a pleasure to present our product sales results today. Please turn to slide 8.
So I'm going to spend a few minutes just talking through the Growth Platforms, which grew across
all areas. This is encouraging, naturally, because it's on the back of strong performance across
these platforms, and these platforms are critical to our long-term goals.
I'll review each of them individually and in more depth later, but broadly Respiratory was driven by
strength in emerging markets and by products in the U.S. and EU. Brilinta continued to enjoy a
steady uptake following the positive PEGASUS data, and the strong diabetes performance was
driven by the well-executed product launches and the benefit of the global AstraZeneca
footprint. Our emerging markets business showed notable strength in China and also in key
markets outside China. And finally, Japan, you can see at the bottom there, maintained growth in
market share and product sales in what was a competitive environment.
If you could just turn to the next slide, we've got an addition, you can see from our
announcement that we issued this morning, New Oncology has been added as our sixth Growth
Platform. To ensure clarity, New Oncology is defined as worldwide sales of Lynparza, worldwide
product sales of Tagrisso, and also U.S. product sales of Iressa. And of course naturally as we
launch products such as durvalumab and tremelimumab, these naturally will be incorporated into
this measure. So these medicines are instrumental in driving the next phase of the growth in the
years to come.Next slide, thanks. So if we start on Respiratory, the franchise grew by 7% in 2015, and this was
driven largely by a combination of emerging markets and also new products in the U.S. and EU.
Symbicort itself declined by 3% at the full year, and in the U.S. product sales were up 1% with
volume growth being offset by access and co-pay assistance.
In Europe, the business was impacted by analogs. We have three analogs in the EU right now, and
these did place some pressure on price, as you would expect. In total, despite a highly
competitive environment, Symbicort increased global market share, with emerging markets now
accounting for nearly 12% of total product sales and representing the biggest element of
absolute growth.
Emerging markets continue to – and you can see this in the middle of the chart, we've put here
the asthma cases, they continue to represent an opportunity for AstraZeneca, with many
untreated patients in both asthma and COPD.
If we look at the new medicines, Tudorza and Eklira, these both delivered encouraging progress
in the U.S. and also Europe. And they're also the fastest-growing LAMA bronchodilators in some
of the EU markets where we've launched. And if we look at that, Eklira is now available in 35
counties, and Duaklir, a LAMA/LABA bronchodilator, is now available in 21 countries, with planned
rollout in an additional 20 markets in 2016. So we're at the start of a journey with these products.
We're launched, we've had good success, this medicine has achieved around 15% market share
in the LAMA/LABA market.
In the fourth quarter, we also entered into an agreement to acquire Takeda's respiratory
business. This is a very good elegant deal. A transaction included the U.S. rights, the non-U.S.
rights for Daliresp, called Daxas outside of the U.S. And this provided a number of synergies in a
number of markets, and of course was immediately accretive.
Next slide, thanks. So for Brilinta, we're pleased to report that sales were up 44% in the full year,
with particular strength in the U.S. and emerging markets led by China in the case of emerging
market, in the U.S. the continued growth was supported by the launch of the 60 milligram. And if
we look at new-to-brand prescription, you could see we started out at 8%, and ended the year
around 12% or close to 12%, which is a great result and one we're pleased with. Looking forward,
we anticipate that as physicians are educated on the new label and they also see the progression
of guidelines in the U.S. and ultimately Europe that should support the product.
In the EU, the CHMP's positive opinion on the 60 milligram dose is expected to deliver a label
claim which we're confident will support the ongoing usage of the product in a wide range of
high-risk patients. In the coming weeks, we're also on track to launch in a number of other
markets with the PEGASUS indication and the 60 milligram.
If we look at the international region, just the international region as emerging markets combined
with countries such as Canada and Australia, our share gains have been reflected in volumes, and
if we look at that numerically, the growth has been seven times the market growth rate for
Brilinta. And later on, Sean will take you through what promises to be a very busy and exciting
year for Brilinta in terms of outcome studies in particular populations.
Next slide, thanks. If we take some time to look at diabetes, I think it's very fair to say that the
franchise delivered an impressive performance at 26% for the year. This was really driven by
Farxiga and Bydureon Pen. In emerging markets, diabetes sales we're up 76%. You could see this
at the block second to top. And the growth of the portfolio was encouraging as we faced whatwas an increasingly competitive marketplace, but we had new product launches and ongoing
pricing pressures.
In the EU and international markets Farxiga and its family led the SGLT-2 class share by volume.
And we also led with dynamic market share in Japan. The U.S. did experience some competitive
pressure and market share pressure. But as we look into 2016, and for those who have seen the
risk figures, we're off to a good start. And we expect that improved pulmonary access and
favorable changes in patient assistance program will support the product.
Bydureon, in the – overall, we had growth of 35%. And this is actually growing when you look at it
globally, faster than the global GLP-1 markets. And actually reflects a lot of faith in the pen. And
this is a pen which is now available in 18 countries. Again, it's a relatively narrow base that we're
talking about here that will expand. And if we look at the revenue in those countries, the growth is
actually driven by switches from other GLP-1s rather than being dominated by erosion of the tray.
So all in all, I think this is a strong performance across the regions in what remains a very attractive
but competitive market.
Next slide, thanks. For emerging markets, the title says "Continued high growth, "and it was
another good year, double-digit growth throughout last year. You can see China, at the bottom of
the chart there, maintained growth at a slightly lower rate. But the underlying dynamics are
positive. And our expectations are that we'll continue to deliver strong growth. And we remain
deeply committed to furthering innovation in China.
Interestingly, we now have three fast-track or class 1 programs in China. You know roxadustat.
We've also announced the partnership in biologics WuXi. And also, we have an EGFR inhibitor
which was discovered in China, in Shanghai, which is progressing nicely in line. And as you may
recall, we recently announced a major long-term investment program in China which will cover the
full biopharmaceutical value chain. And this ranges obviously from research right through to
manufacturing which supports this commitment.
Also, there was notable growth outside of China. You can see on the chart, Brazil, 16%; Russia,
21%. And with many other markets, we were able to maintain single high digits rates.
The emerging markets' growth was also, if you look at products, split across all therapeutic areas.
Respiratory was up 25%, Brilinta was up 91% in emerging markets. Diabetes up 76% and finally
Oncology up 18%. So, I think that it's fair to say that's a very strong balanced performance across
the board in emerging markets. We're actually tracking above our long-term target as listed on
the right-hand corner of this slide.
So, next slide, thanks. So, if we pivot to Japan, our business in Japan maintained solid growth. We
had 8% in the quarter, 4% for the full year. This growth in medicines in Japan was driven by
Symbicort, Crestor and Nexium. And you can see in the middle of this slide, they all made very
good progress in 2015, and they actually maintained leading market share positions in what was
in each one of these categories a very competitive segment. There were some fluctuations
during the fourth quarter. We've detailed in our press release and these actually have no impact
on the good underlying trend which is favoring our business in Japan.
On top of a solid and established portfolio in Japan, we are now actually in the process of
preparing for the next wave of launches. So, during the first half of 2016, we hope to achieve
approval of Brilinta. And also in the same timeframe, we are very excited to target an approval of
Tagrisso, which is I'm sure you realize is just a few months after the FDA and EU approvals. And
we actually expect that Tagrisso will benefit from our existing presence and infrastructure in lung,and naturally represents quite an opportunity because of the prevalence of EGFR mutations in
Japanese patients.
Next slide, thanks. So, I think that's a good segue to the final part of my presentation, which is
New Oncology. If we go through the products, Lynparza continued its strong trajectory one year
after approval. Globally we've been able to treat around 2,550 patients through a commercial
supply, and the medicine has actually been approved in 24 countries, we've launched in 15, and
we've got reviews ongoing in 13 countries. So, again, that's a cascade of numbers. I think the key
thing to take out of this is we've actually started our regulatory journey with Lynparza, and there's
a lot of activity to come with this product.
Another thing that we follow very closely is actually BRCA testing rates. It's a good barometer in
terms of enthusiasm around the product and intention to prescribe. If you look at the U.S., around
two-thirds of patient in third or fourth line are aware of their BRCA status. If we look at Europe, in
second line it's around 50% of patient already aware of their BRCA status. Now, just to put that in
context, if we went back one year in Europe, it was only 10% of patients who were aware of this
status with Lynparza. So, also, things are not standing still, as Sean will explain later, 2016 will
actually be a very exciting year for newsflow for Lynparza.
If we turn to Tagrisso. It was launched on the 13th of November in the U.S. We actually shipped
and launched six months after that. And as you know, as Pascal's referred to, we brought Tagrisso
to patients in record time, and now we're in the position to offer a very effective treatment for
second-line lung cancer patients. And we're also encourage by the inclusion, and it was a rapid
inclusion, in the NCCN guidelines for Tagrisso within one week of launch on the market.
And we're going to be very excited and look forward to giving you an update on a regular basis
on the progress we're making with Lynparza and Tagrisso.
These naturally will form the initial backbone of our New Oncology portfolio. And these launches
along with the growth trials I've just taken you through ultimately underpin our performance – our
positive performance in 2015.
And with that, I'll thank you, and I will now hand over to Marc, who's going to take you through the
financial highlights.
Marc Dunoyer `
Thanks, Luke, and hello, everyone. I'm going to spend the next few minutes taking you through
our performance in 2015, as well as our guidance for 2016. If you could please turn to slide 17.
Total revenue grew by 1% in the year, marginally ahead of our revised guidance. Our investment
in R&D was supported not only by the growth in the top line but also by 1 percentage point
improvement in the gross margin, and a 2% reduction in core SG&A cost.
As you may remember, in 2015, we committed to a reduction in core SG&A cost by absolute
value, and also as a proportion of total revenue. Our improved R&D productivity and the
increased focus on the main therapy areas meant we could also deliver over $1 billion of external
revenue, and $1.5 billion of other operating income.
Further down the P&L, core EPS was $4.26, up 7% on the year, which included a gross of 22% for
the fourth quarter. The board remained committed to a progressive dividend policy and have
declared a second interim dividend of $1.90 per share, bringing the dividend per share to the full
year to $2.80 for the full year, in line with previous year.As you know, we guide at constant exchange rates, and we anticipate a decline in total revenue in
2016 by a low to mid-single digit percentage. We also anticipate a decline in core EPS by a low- to
mid-single-digit percentage. The above guidance incorporates the dilutive effect arising from the
Acerta Pharma, and the ZS Pharma transactions announced late in 2015.
Further, it's important to note that we may see greater fluctuations in the quarterly earnings
performance this year as a result of the anticipated loss of Crestor exclusivity from May. I'll take
you through more details on our guidance as well as our future capital allocation priorities in a
moment.
If you could now turn to slide 18. Looking at other highlights in the P&L, encouraging progress was
made in the year in the cost of sales. Our mix of sales is changing and we're also making inroads
into delivering manufacturing efficiencies.
The increase in core R&D investment in the fourth quarter was outweighed by an 11% reduction in
core SG&A cost. We plan to further reduce core SG&A in 2016 and we have further opportunities
to take out material levels of core SG&A cost.
Our core tax rate was 16% in the year, in line with the comments I made a year ago, essentially a
16% to 20% range. I anticipate a similar 16% to 20% range for 2016, depending on the eventual
geographical mix of profits. This is to help you with the modeling.
If you can now turn to slide 19. I'm encouraged by the progress in improving both the core gross
profit and the core gross margin. The data on the chart excludes any impact from externalization
revenue and illustrate the strength of the underlying business.
Our gross margin increased by 1 percentage point in 2015. And despite the increased investment
in core R&D, the operating margin also increased by 1 percentage point to 28%. We are
approaching high-level of core R&D investment. And as you can see in the lower chart, Oncology
is now attracting the largest share of our R&D budget. In fact, we have doubled our absolute
investment in Oncology since 2013, in parallel with our focus on the other main therapy area. With
this high level of investment we have reached will lead us to anticipate a similar level of core R&D
spend in 2016.
Please turn to slide 20. Core SG&A cost reduction continues to be a key focus for the business.
We have made good progress in 2015, and I'm pleased that we delivered on our commitment in
2015. Core SG&A cost declined by 2% as an absolute value, and by 1 percentage point relative to
total revenue. It's worth noting that core SG&A declined by 11% in the fourth quarter.
In 2016, we are committed to materially reduce core SG&A cost even further based on constant
exchange rate. We'll do this by continuing to focus on areas such as reducing third-party spend,
optimizing various function and processes, and focusing on sales and marketing effectiveness.
Please turn to slide 21. I'd now like to turn to 2016, a year of challenges but also real opportunities.
We know there are two clear pressures on the business when we think about guidance, namely
the loss of exclusivity for Crestor in the U.S. from May, plus the dilutive effect arising from the
transaction we announced before the end of the year. This dilution will not only impact the
financial expenses line.
We will also incorporate 100% of the R&D cost of Acerta, with only a minority of those costs
falling back out through non-controlling interest. We have, however, four very clear positives that
we have baked into our guidance.Firstly, Luke has just spoke to you about the strong and consistent impact of the Growth
Platforms. In a moment, Sean will take you through what will be a very busy year for the pipeline
and our launch program. Thirdly, it's worth bearing in mind not only the milestone from our
program of standardization, there will also be an increasing level of recurring milestone in royalty
income arising from agreement signed in the past. This is in line with our long-term business
model.
Lastly, a key message to take away today is the opportunity to take a material level of core SG&A
cost out of the business in 2016. All of these factors are within our control. This is why the adverse
currency movements that we expect are not included within guidance as per our usual practice.
Please turn to slide 22. We're looking at the specific guidance for 2016. It is at constant exchange
rates. And we expect a low- to mid-single-digit percentage decline in both total revenue and core
EPS. Outside of guidance and using average January currency rate, the adverse impact on total
revenue and core EPS from currency would be about 3% in 2016. We will update this number as
the year progresses to help you model.
Finally, I want to be clear about our capital allocation priorities this year. We'll continue to strive to
balance between the interest of the business of financial creditors and our shareholders. After
providing for investment in the business supporting the progressive dividend policy and
maintaining our strong investment grade credit ratings we'll keep under review any potential
investment in earning of accretive opportunities.
Thank you for listening, and I will now hand over to Sean.
Sean Bohen `
All right. Great. Thank you, Marc, and hello, everyone.
Please turn to slide 24. 2015 was a good year for AstraZeneca. This slide highlights the key
milestones including Phase III readouts, regulatory submissions and regulatory approvals. The
favorable outcomes are colored in green. The unfavorable ones are in gray. Clearly, the favorable
events far outweigh the unfavorable ones. I will speak specifically to one of the gray boxes which
is saxa/dapa and the Complete Response Letter.
In the first half of 2016, we now expect to make a new U.S. NDA Regulatory submission for the
fixed-dose combination of saxagliptin and dapagliflozin. This decision is based on recent positive
interactions with the FDA. In essence, we plan to submit additional clinical data for saxa/dapa
from a trial that is now completed.
The key highlights were the six approvals including two new medicines, Tagrisso and Zurampic.
We look forward to continuing this momentum in 2016 to deliver on the pipeline and keep you
updated on our progress.
Please turn to slide 25. Next, I would like to review some of the late stage pipeline highlights in
the main therapy areas during the fourth quarter of 2015 and early into this year. Starting with RIA,
the Symbicort LABA safety post marketing trial was positive. Zurampic received approval in the
United States and a positive CHMP opinion in the EU. Brodalumab received regulatory submission
acceptances in the U.S. and EU, and exciting anifrolumab Phase II results in lupus were presented
at the ACR in November.
In CVMD, Brilique received a positive CHMP opinion in the EU for the post-MI indication, and ZS-9
received regulatory submission acceptance in the EU.Finally for Oncology, we received Breakthrough Therapy designation for Lynparza in particular
forms of prostate cancer. Tagrisso was approved in the U.S., and just a couple of days ago, also
approved in the EU, and the ADAURA adjuvant trial was also started. As for durvalumab, we do
not plan any regulatory submission for monotherapy use in PD-L1 positive third-line non-small cell
lung cancer, which is in line with our previous comments in December.
During the quarter, we achieved first patient dosed in several durva + treme combination trials:
NEPTUNE in first-line non-small cell lung cancer, EAGLE in second-line head and neck cancer,
KESTREL in first-line head and neck cancer, DANUBE in first-line bladder cancer, and ALPS in
second-line pancreatic cancer. These trials are key programs for the successful development of
our I/O combination strategy.
On to slide 26. For 2016, we expect continued strong newsflow from our advancing pipeline,
including regulatory decisions, regulatory submissions, and key data readouts. If we only focus on
events through the first half of 2016, for regulatory approvals, we expect to hear back on
Zurampic for gout in the EU, PT003 for COPD in the U.S., ZS-9 for hyperkalaemia in the U.S., and
Tagrisso for lung cancer in Japan. As for key regulatory submissions, we expect to submit Brilinta
in stroke, and resubmit saxa/dapa for type II diabetes in the U.S. As for key data readouts, we
expect benralizumab data for severe asthma, Brilinta for stroke, Lynparza for gastric cancer and
tremelimumab for mesothelioma. As you can see there are many key news points expected in
the coming months, and we look forward to updating you on our progress.
Please turn to slide 27. Finally I would like to walk you through a few measure of R&D productivity.
Starting with the number of publication as an indication of early science recognition, we had 397
publications in 2010, growing to 552 in 2015. As the number of publications has grown, so has the
percentage of those considered to be medium and high impact.
Next, looking at the number of programs either in Phase II or under registration, we had seven in
2010, growing to 15 in 2015. Our late-stage portfolio mix is shifting from primary care to specialty
care, and from small molecules to a balance of small and large molecules. Finally, the chart on the
right shows the expected number of new molecular entities and major life-cycle management
submissions through 2018. As you can see, there will be a strong flow of anticipated submissions
that will expedite unlocking the value of the pipeline. The goal for 2016 is to advance the pipeline,
to bring more differentiated medicines to patients and to live up to our promise of what science
can do.
And with that, I would like to hand back to Pascal for his closing comments.
Pascal Soriot `
Thank you, Sean. So please turn to slide 20. I will quickly summarize the results today, very quickly
so we move to the Q&A. Revenue was up 1%. Growth Platforms, importantly, were up 11%. Our
core EPS was up 7%, which reflects that we delivered on our commitment to reduce SG&A cost.
And we were able to maintain the momentum in the R&D investments.
So our guidance is low to mid-single digit percent decline for both revenue and core EPS. And the
dilution is – of the acquisitions we made late last year is included in this guidance as covered by
Marc a minute ago. Sorry about this. This microphone is falling. So I think, really, what this reflects
is that we are on track with what we told you we would do. In fact, by and large, we believe that
we are ahead of what we thought we would two, three years ago from a pipeline viewpoint.
The only new development that we certainly didn't expect – I don't think anybody would have
expected, quite frankly, is the negative development in the last 15, 16 months on the currencyfront. And this really represents a massive headwind for us like for many other companies that
report in U.S. dollars. Compared to what the exchange rates were in 2013, for instance, we're
losing more than $1.5 billion of profit in 2016. So the fact that we are able to still deliver the $4.20
at actual exchange rate in 2015 is a reflection of the strength of our business.
If we turn to slide 30 before we end, just wanted to reflect on our journey. We just finished the
first phase of this journey. We started early 2013 rebuilding our pipeline, and we believe now that
we are done with this. We have a very strong pipeline, and we're focusing on building three very
strong businesses in Oncology. Three years ago, we had almost nothing in Oncology. Today, we
believe we have one of the best Oncology portfolios in the industry.
We're also trying to build a very strong business in cardiovascular/diabetes, complemented with
the acquisition of ZS Pharma in kidney disease. And finally, Respiratory, also three years ago we
only had Symbicort that was facing patent expiry, and now we believe we have a pipeline that
certainly will take us forward over the next two to three years, and position us well in this
respiratory disease area. So we believe we have three very strong businesses and a strong
pipeline.
Now, the consequence of this, though, is that it is suddenly requiring us to focus very much on
these three core businesses. And so we have brought this laser-like focus on those three
businesses which is accelerating, if you will, our process of partnering or divesting some of these
non-core businesses. And we've done that in 2015, and in fact each time, we have been able to
find very good partners that will turn some of those products into great successes, we believe,
certainly better than we could have done it ourselves, and also saves us having to build
infrastructure.
After the next two years where we're going to have to face very substantial headwinds coming
from those patent expiries, Crestor, Nexium, (39:08), we still expect very strong, very rapid
period of growth in 2018 and beyond.
So I think I wanted to leave you with this message here that we're still committed to our long-
term goals. We still believe we can achieve 2017 sales broadly in line with 2013 and our $45 billion
goal is still very much part of everything we are targeting.
So, very good progress made across the pipeline. Of course, as I said, currency is a moving
target very much. Who know where they will be. We know that using January currency rates, we
have a minus 3% negative impact on our guidance, but we don't know where those currency
effects will go. They may improve. They may further decline. We certainly will do our best to
mitigate the currency impact and are still very committed to achieving our EPS goals, very much
so. But the point is, we can't totally predict where these currencies will end at the end of the year.
So thank you very much for your attention, and I'll now open for questions. Both here in London
and on the phone. For those who ask a question, please, if you don't mind, ask one question at a
time, and not a question with three or four parts, but one question with maybe one part or two
parts maximum.
Q&A
A - Pascal Soriot `
Please, go ahead, Sachin, go.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `Maybe I'll kick off with where you left off. So the $4.20 floor's been sacrificed within reported
guidance. Just wanted to understand what you felt that signals? Is it greater investment? Is it less
certainty in one-offs? Is it just FX? And given the lack of earnings floor (40:58) for the market now,
when you see proper earnings?
A - Pascal Soriot `
Yeah. I mean, I don't think we've said that – it's a good question actually, Sachin. But I don't think
we've said there's no earnings floor. I think we've guided to the range of outcomes that we see
are possible, but we're still very much committed to delivering on this (41:17) goal we have, and I
think really we should completely separate guidance from what our goals might be from a
compensation structure viewpoint. Those are separate issues.
The guidance actually reflects what we see moving forward and includes the dilution from the
acquisitions. As I said earlier we still very much are committed to these EPS goal. The biggest
issue for us is actually the currency. That's really the biggest thing we cannot predict. So at
constant rate we believe we are around the $4.20 and we certainly very much believe we are
going to work out to achieve it. The question for us is really currency.
Hopefully, that answered your question; if not, you can come back to it and ask it differently.
Q - `James Daniel Gordon, JPMorgan Securities Plc `
Thanks. Well, I'll ask it slightly differently, or a similar theme which is – James Gordon from
JPMorgan, which was just going below the $4.20 and below the 1.5 times cover, should we think
of it as a one-off factor for this year because it's (42:29) dilution or is it something that could be
quite sustained because it looks like 2017 is probably a tougher year than 2016? You've got a full
year of no Crestor and a full year of no Nexium. And I don't think the new launch is going to make
that much difference by then. So, is it something where you hope just to go one-off dispensation
for this year, or could it be the new normal that we are below the level?
A - Pascal Soriot `
Well, we haven't said – we have not talked about dispensation. We've given you a guidance at
constant rates. And certainly, our goal is still to bottom out this (42:57). 2017 is clearly still a
challenging year. Having said that, we believe that some of those launches will rapidly generate
additional profit. We also believe that as we move forward and as the sort of launches, if you will,
of products like Brilinta, diabetes and others mature, then the need for SG&A is going to be less
as a percentage of sales. So, we believe we can still manage the SG&A down. We think there is
substantial reduction in SG&A for us to achieve. The question is, at what speed do we achieve
this?
And to achieve it too fast may actually threaten the top-line goals. But we believe over a two-
year, two-and-a-half-year period, we certainly can achieve substantial reduction in our SG&A. And
that's really what we're going to manage to try and protect the EPS. And the way we protect EPS
will be a mixture of, as we've said before, a mixture of SG&A reduction and delivering on this
externalization goals.
Q - Operator
(43:59) from Morgan Stanley. So, another question on the guidance, I'm afraid. The credit rating,
does that assume that you have reached the limit in terms of potential dilutive deals? And so,
now if you want do something, it has to be accretive and no more dilutive?And just back to the SG&A comments, you reduced by $1 billion SG&A spending in 2015. Is that
ballpark level of $1 billion achievable again in 2016?
A - Pascal Soriot `
So, Marc, maybe you want to cover the credit rating. And – I mean, the SG&A, as we've told you
before, we're not going to give specific numbers. But you can see the SG&A, as a percentage of
sales, we do recognize it is relatively high relative to our peers. So, the question is not so much
can we reduce it, because the answer to that is, yes, we can reduce it. The question is at what
speed do we achieve that without impacting the top line in the near term. And that's really what
we – we're on a gliding path in term of managing this SG&A. But we – certainly, we'll reduce it
over the next two years at a substantial rate.
Marc, do you want to cover the...
A - Marc Dunoyer `
Let me position the credit rating and the relative impact of the acquisition announced at the end
of last year. First of all, as you know very well, the credit rating agencies tend to have an horizon
of planning which is more short-term than maybe equity investors. So what – we need to
understand the rationale behind those two acquisition, and when I mention the two acquisition, I
mean, Acerta and ZS Pharma.
In the short-term, and we have indicated there will be moderate short-term dilution, but we have
also emphasized the very strong impact on the operating leverage in the longer term. And that's
obviously the rationale and the reason why we made this acquisition.
So, if you we're looking at the credit rating, you would probably look more short-term but we
need to look at the – also the long-term perspective for equity investors.
And then the more – exact question on the rating, you know that we – the credit rating agencies
downgraded us by one notch for both the two main credit rating agencies. But this does not
mean we – the reason why we look at accretive opportunities is not because of the rating, it's
more because we also need to protect our cash flow and protect the ordered balance of the
company.
A - Pascal Soriot `
And also because we believe we finished with – we have rebuilt our pipeline to a great extent
and really the focus has to be on execution, progressing it, delivering it, and also launching those
new products. So, this is really where our efforts are.
Thomas (46:57) reminds me that I should ask questions on the phone as well. So if you'll allow me
I'll ask one question on the phone and return to the room in a minute.
Andrew Baum at Citi. Andrew, do you want to ask your questions?
Q - `Andrew S. Baum, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Yeah. Good morning. My question is for Marc on your tax rate outlook for next year. Obviously, the
contribution from U.S.-based products will be a diminishing function of Crestor and I assume that
products impacted by the patent box probably increasing. So, should we expect there's any
downside to that current 21% core tax rate for 2016?A - Pascal Soriot `
Andrew, I don't know if it's at your end or our end, but it's hard to hear. I don't know. Marc, did you
get the question? We didn't get it Andrew.
Q - `Andrew S. Baum, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Can you hear me now?
A - Pascal Soriot `
Yes, a bit better, yeah.
Q - `Andrew S. Baum, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Okay. Let me try again. The question was that core tax rate for 2016, given you're losing the
Crestor revenue in the U.S. with assuming a higher tax rate and given the patent, the products
impacted by the patent box should be larger for next year, should we expect there's further
downward pressure on the 21% core tax rate that you posted for 2015?
A - Marc Dunoyer `
I'm not absolutely certain I understood the totality of the question. But I think you're asking the
guidance or the indication I provided on the range of tax rate, corporate tax rate, for 2016. And I
think you're asking whether the 16% to 20% is – which we provided in 2015 is the same for 2016.
Well, I'll just repeat what I said in my talk that we expect the rate, the corporate, the core tax rate
to be between 16% and 20% in the same manner that it is for 2015.
A - Pascal Soriot `
Andrew, it is correct that our new products, many of them are in the patent box and will derive a
benefit from this from a tax viewpoint, but they are relatively small in the great scheme of things
for the time being. But certainly, over the next few years, maybe a little bit this year but mostly
the years after, we'll derive a benefits. But it's probably a little bit ambitious to expect the tax
rates to drop in 2016 because of the patent box. So, I think 2016 to 2020 is probably the range
that you should expect
And I think I mentioned the caveat in my presentation that obviously the core tax rate depends on
the geographic mix of where the profit is realized as we need to pay taxation in all the countries
where we generally profit, so within that range.
Alexandra, do you want...?
Q - `Alexandra M. Hauber-Schuele, UBS AG (Broker) `
I have a completely different question. On slide 15, you did show some relatively steady uptake of
Tagrisso. And I look IMS data, it looks a bit different. It looks like a very, very fast uptake in the first
three weeks and a bit more steady then. So independent whether this data shows the right thing
or not, the question I have is, what do you find in the marketplace in terms of the challenge of
having to re-biopsy those patients? How widely is that done? Is there a long way to go? You
mentioned the BRCA status, how much they want to go? And can you tell us roughly where you
think we are here, but in all the three key territories?A - Luke Miels `
Yeah, sure. So, there's – this is a high degree of understanding the product, I think, particularly in
the U.S. because of the dynamics there. Around 10% is the testing rate for T790M mutations in
the U.S. right now. You're right. The key challenge is that second biopsy. But there is actually the
feedback that we're getting, and again, it's early days, there's a high enthusiasm and interest in
doing that and that physicians can explain that to patients and make the case to do that because
they themselves are convinced.
Of course, if we look in the midterm, the promise of ctDNA test is attractive because, of course,
then you're really focused on resolving the false negatives, and you just might lower the barrier
to initiating a treatment. And ultimately, of course, if we can have data in first line then it's a
simpler discussion. So, net-net, very positive support for it. I think the reality is in the U.S. we have
a much cleaner area to operate than we were expecting, and we really have the market to
ourselves for some time.
Q - `Alexandra M. Hauber-Schuele, UBS AG (Broker) `
(51:15-51:18)
A - Luke Miels `
Yes. Yeah. I mean, yeah, the thing to keep in mind of course is that BRCA testing in the U.S., is it a
relatively high rate because, of course, there is a broader consequence of the test which in terms
of family members. So, there's a higher expectation and demand for the test. Historically, with the
T790M test there is no clinical strategy that can be derived from that. And now we've supplied
that, we have three labs in the U.S. which are centers of excellence, so that infrastructure is in
place.
Historically we've had experience with EGFR testing. We'll now do that through Europe, and also
emerging markets. We're very actively involved in that infrastructure in Hong Kong and Macau. So
... Sorry? Japan as well. And we've got a team in place right now, which is a very, very good team,
targeting lung physicians. And of course, remember, we had a team in place which is really why
we bought back Iressa in the U.S. which potentially have a running start for the products.
A - Pascal Soriot `
Just trying to follow some order, but hopefully I get it right.
Q - `Matthew J. Weston, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Thank you. It's Matthew Weston from Credit Suisse. Hopefully the last guidance question. You
were very kind in setting out expectations for externalization, and thank you for that. But in 2015,
you generated about $1.3 billion from product divestitures included in other operating income.
So, if you could set out what's your expectation for product divestitures in 2016 that's baked into
guidance? And within that, have you identified the products for sale? Have you started
discussions, or it's just an aspirational goal that that will help you modulate the P&L this year?
A - Pascal Soriot `
So, I would like to bring you back to 2015. I believe that in a different place but at the same time
last year, we were having the same level of discussion on how you're going to deliver your
guidance for 2015. And I think I answered then that it would be a conjunction of two factors. Thereduction of SG&A expenses, and I think you now see that we have delivered on this reduction,
both in absolute terms but also in percentage. And I also said at that time that we would
generate revenues through externalized revenues, and the question was right then that what
percentage of both? And my answer then that it would be relatively two similar factors; will not be
a 10%/90%.
So, I think you can use the elements of 2015 to project to some extent for 2016. One indication I
can provide you that in 2016 there will be more of it. If you take the total revenue – the
externalization revenue, the total of extant revenues and other income. So, we're going to – it's
going to be a more pronounced effect for this impact.
Q - `Matthew J. Weston, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Okay. So just to clarify, if I take the $1 billion of externalization income in 2015, add the $1.3 billion
of one-time other operating income, it will be greater than that $2.3 billion, however it's made up,
of the two buckets.
A - Pascal Soriot `
Absolutely. Absolutely.
Q - `Matthew J. Weston, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Thank you very much.
A - Pascal Soriot `
Maybe the one thing I would add is that we are pursuing two strategies that are really all driven
by focusing ourselves. And the big one is, of course, externalizing partnering some of our
products. And I think the – and the other one, of course, is divesting assets that are small. And if
you actually look at it, we have generated a lot of income out of products that were selling $40
million to $50 million and were sort of not doing much in our hands because we are focusing
elsewhere.
But the one important point is people see this externalization revenue sometimes as one-offs.
Essentially, what we're doing here is sort of priming the pump, if I may. I mean, maybe it's not the
right expression, but it's, actually, we're starting a process of introducing a new business model, b
but at some point this will turn into recurring revenues. I mean, if the base inhibitor delivers, if it
gets approved and is launched, the externalization revenue line will be enormous. And so, there
is quite a number of products that will actually be like this, that will continue to deliver revenue on
an ongoing basis.
Essentially, what we do is we say, those are products we don't want or cannot develop ourselves
because we don't have the capabilities. We don't have the financial resources. We want to focus.
But we want to retain some economic interest. We partner with someone who's going to do a
good job operationally for us and then leave us with some of the economic value. Should not
really be seen as one-offs. There are, of course, one-offs but there's also long-term recurring
revenues that will develop.
Q - `Mark D. Purcell, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Thank you. It's Mark Purcell, Barclays. Can I just follow up on that, and then ask something totally
different.So, if you take externalization revenues about $1.1 billion for 2016, can you help us understand the
mix between recurring which you're saying is going up? The milestones, we know of one,
obviously $170 million on brodalumab and then, the new stuff that we don't know anything about.
And then just on durvalumab and the update on the pipeline. Can you help us understand why
you chose on the triple to do durva plus chemo plus or minus treme? Why you didn't do durva
plus treme plus or minus chemo?
And then secondly, you changed the primary endpoints on MYSTIC as well. So was that done
because you're concerned about patient crossover in that study to second line Opdivo?
A - Pascal Soriot `
Sean, do you want to cover the last two questions? And, Marc, you cover the first one?
A - Sean Bohen `
Yes. So, the first question – I'm going to do the second one first, and then I want some
clarification on the first one. Okay?
So, the second one was change of endpoint on MYSTIC. The change, just so everyone knows, is
making a co-primary. Progression-free survival, the previous sole primary, then combining it with
overall survival.
This really came from two things. One is, as data emerges with immuno-oncology I think we are
wondering about progression-free survival as the best indication of the benefit that patients
derive from this particular mechanism of action, because we have seen it's a mixed bag right
now, and it's early days, but we've seen some places where they seem not – the progression-
free survival seems not to really predict very well an overall survival benefit that comes through.
And so, that led us to think, we should move the overall survival up in the hierarchy. The first
analysis will be progression-free survival.
The second aspect of it, really, is a pragmatic one, and it has to do with how quickly the trial is
enrolling. So, one concern when you do this is you have to add some patients to the trial because
you want to power both your primaries. And we did that in the amendment. The thing is that what
we had forecast, how long it would delay us, turns out to be a fraction because it's enrolling so
quickly. So, we were able to do this change without really impacting the time line. So, those were
two of the major factors that went in to it.
Now, the first question, can you clarify for me for a second?
Q - `Mark D. Purcell, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Yeah. Sure, sorry. Obviously there's a big focus on durva + treme.
A - Sean Bohen `
That's right.
Q - `Mark D. Purcell, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
But the triple trial is durva + chemo +/- treme.
A - Sean Bohen `That's right.
Q - `Mark D. Purcell, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
So, I would have thought it would have been durva + treme +/- chemo to put the sort of onus on
the chemo to change the...
A - Sean Bohen `
Well, let me talk about two things about our fundamental strategy. So, you could do it either way;
you're right. It depends upon what your fundamental strategy is.
Our emphasis is combination, combination immunotherapy, I should say rather. And there's a little
bit of a pragmatic aspect of this. Some's pragmatic in practice patterns, doctors treating lung
cancer, some is actually kind of pragmatic in the world availability of therapy.
There – we've heard very loud and clear from some fraction of the physicians that, hey, I'm going
to give my patients doublet chemotherapy. It's shown a survival benefit, it's well-established, and
if I can combine in, great, but I don't feel I can deprive them of the chemotherapy. And so, what
we're doing is we're trying to provide, one, for the combination strategy and, two, a data set for
that not-insignificant group of physicians to be able to understand what's going to happen.
A - Pascal Soriot `
I just want to say there are studies focused on the combo with chemo with the other dimension
test whether adding treme on top without (1:00:23), but we really want to establish the overall
chemo, the benefits of that combination. Should we move – oh sorry, Marc.
A - Marc Dunoyer `
So, I think I'm going to answer the previous question on do you have released or do you have a
concrete plan for these external revenues of divestment? The answer is yes. I'm not going to
give you the list, so please do not ask. But I'm just going to explain why we have a list so we know
which product, which activities, and also which parties could be interested.
What we don't know yet, although we have already ongoing discussion, what we don't know yet
is what structure the deal will be like, because obviously, it depends on the counterparty. And this
is why it is not easy for us to tell you what part will be recurring, what part will be sort of one-off.
One part will be in externalized revenues and one part could be in other income. This obviously
depend on the structure of the transaction. But I think if you look at the totality of external
revenues and other income and you see an expansion versus the level of 2015, I think you are in
the right place.
A - Pascal Soriot `
Should we move to the online questions? Again, Tim Anderson of Bernstein. Tim, go ahead.
Q - `Timothy Minton Anderson, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Thank you. Your first-line lung development program was durvalumab. It's pretty apparent that
you're putting almost all of your eggs in the basket of combination therapy with tremelimumab.
But I'm wondering what happens if the combo data ends up looking lackluster? Your frontline
monotherapy trials are in all-comer lung patients. But your competitors seem to feel that in
frontline lung it's risky to look at unselected patients. So they're only looking at monotherapyfrontline in biomarker positive patients. So, can you clarify for us what happens to the durvalumab
franchise in frontline lung if the treme combo ends up not working?
A - Pascal Soriot `
Sorry, Sean do you want to go?
A - Sean Bohen `
Yeah. So, you added franchise in the end there. So, I might have to look at the answer. But with
regard to the outcome, let's go with the outcome of MYSTIC which is really the lead frontline trial.
So, as you're alluding to, Tim, that has durva + treme. It has durva as a single agent and then it's
versus standard of care. So, three arms, 1:1:1 randomization, and now PFS and OSS endpoints.
And we are taking all comers. Obviously, the data will be analyzed by biomarker positive versus
biomarker negative. And our hope is, we've presented some data that we feel supports this, that
durva/treme will be truly differentiating in the PD-L1 negative patient population, which I will add is
the majority of patients, okay? Two-thirds to three-quarters patients, depending upon what data
set you look at.
With regard to the PD-L1 positive population, it is possible that durva and treme and durva are
both active and active in a way that can't be differentiated. In which case, it is possible for us to
file based on that data, a single agent durva for that PD-L1 positive subset. So, I guess, what I'm
saying in part is it depends upon the data, but as you point out, there are multiple opportunities
or permutations that could arise depending upon what it shows.
A - Pascal Soriot `
Does this cover your question or...
Q - `Timothy Minton Anderson, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Yeah. I think, I mean, I guess the question was whether there's enough powering in that
monotherapy arm of MYSTIC just in PD-L1 positive patients to use that as a registration subset.
But you're saying that it is adequately powered to kind of carve that data out. And if I could just
clarify, so your view also, and I think you've said this before, on the percent of patients in frontline
that are PD-L1 positive versus negative, that's a figure that differs from what Bristol-Myers has
said, and I guess I've always tried to figure out why that difference exists.
A - Sean Bohen `
Yeah. So I'll tell you one challenge we have, and hopefully this will be resolved, and I think some
of what you're looking at is assay and assay cut-off effects. And now that the Bristol-Myers and
the Merck assays are out there and can be used for a comparison, that presents an opportunity
to really look at the same samples with the different assays and help to resolve this a little bit. But
you're right, there is a range of variability. A PD-L1 negative is the majority. But you're right, the
exact numbers do vary. And I think it's probably dependent upon the assay and the assay cut-offs
mostly.
Q - `Timothy Minton Anderson, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Thank you.
A - Pascal Soriot `Thanks, Sean. `Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Partners LLC, maybe we could ask the other question on line here. Okay,
Seamus, go ahead, and then we will return to the room in a second.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Partners LLC `
Great. Thanks. So can you hear me okay?
A - Pascal Soriot `
Yeah.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Partners LLC `
Great. So, I just wanted to ask specifically, Pascal, as we take in the context, the opportunity that
you're looking at, at potential accretive acquisitions, would you be willing to kind of put some
brackets around the type of acquisition that you would consider? There's an awful lot out there.
And how long do you think it will take for some of those acquisitions that you might be
considering, for the owners of those businesses you think to kind of come together with you,
given the rapid pace of decline that we've seen? I assume that you would be more looking at
biotech-type entities that are strategic. But maybe if you can just give us some brackets around
the types of acquisitions that you would consider, and maybe a relative size as well would be
really helpful. Thanks.
A - Pascal Soriot `
So, thanks for the question. The first thing is that, as we said, they have to be accretive because,
again, we believe our pipeline is full now. So they have to be accretive. They have to be the right
price. Importantly, they have to be strategically aligned with what we're trying to do. So they have
to be in autoimmune, respiratory, in cancer, in cardiovascular, diabetes, so that we keep building
our presence in those key therapy areas. And finally, the size really depends very much on how
big is their cash flow that is added through the direct acquisition, and through the synergies. It
depends on our ability to – how much we can raise money as a result of all of these.
So, as I've said before many times, we're agnostic as far as size provided it's strategically
aligned, the price is right, we can add value, and we think we can execute. Executing on these
acquisitions is critical, so that we don't distract the organization to an extent that what we gain
through the acquisition, we lose through distraction on the pipeline. So, that's really as specific as
I can be.
In terms of getting together, it again depends on the size. I mean, some of these acquisitions, we
integrate very quickly. We can integrate quickly, and the bigger they are, the complicated it is. But
again, size is only one consideration, there's geographical complexity, et cetera, et cetera. I mean
it's – every case is different really.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Leerink Partners LLC `
And may I ask just one quick follow-up on a clarifying piece of information on one of your pipeline
products? Roxadustat in China. Do you anticipate that we'll actually see data in a public forum
based on the data in China or in 2016, or would you anticipate that sometime in 2017? Because
that trial will wrap up very late in the year. Thanks a lot.
(1:09:11-1:11:38)
A - Luke Miels `– so, that's something that ironically is probably something that's more sensitive for everyone in
that group. But, again, yeah, good start. And also the flip side of that, of course, is that we lost
some access with Bydureon, and we took a defensive posture. And I think we'll come out of that
quite well.
A - Pascal Soriot `
Yeah. I think it's an important point that Luke is making. I mean if you look at the prescription
share, the increase is very impressive actually. And it's kind of nice. But you should be careful to
not extrapolate this too rapidly because you never know how things settle down. But certainly it's
a very encouraging start of the year. There's no doubt about this.
And the bigger issue is really the class. I mean, if you look at the total class, it's relatively flat
essentially out of this ketoacidosis issue. It's starting to pick up. Now, we have a good hope that
the class will pick up. In fact, if you look at Japan, the class was negatively impacted also initially.
For different reasons, it was really dehydration issues in Japan. But the class is starting to pick up
quite nicely.
This is a good class. And many new agents face issues at the beginning. Just if you remember
CRYSTAL, some of you may not remember CRYSTAL, but CRYSTAL faced a very challenging
start, again for safety questions, and the company at that time was able to resolve those issues
and then the product did extremely well. So, this is a good class. It's going to do well. There's no
question. You just need to work through the issues in Japan and in the U.S.
But for us, in the short-term, that's really the biggest question, is how quickly will the class pick
up? And then we'll come back to Matt in a second.
Q - `Simon Baker, Exane Ltd. `
`Simon Baker, Exane Ltd. from Exane. I'm afraid I am going to bore Matthew with a quick two part on the
guidance. Firstly, you've included within the guidance the dilutive effect of Acerta and ZS Pharma. I
was wondering if you could quantify that in aggregate? And secondly, to what extent is the Q4
SG&A performance a guide to 2016? Thank you.
A - Marc Dunoyer `
No. We are not going to quantify the dilution. When we did the acquisition, the separate
acquisition, we indicated the type of dilution. We think we said short-term and minimal for ZS and
we said moderate for Acerta, and we also said short-term. Well, I think with this sort of
combination of adverb and adjectives, I think you can probably derive the impact of the dilution.
So, I'm sorry, but I'm not going to give you the exact number.
A - Pascal Soriot `
The only thing I would add is the range of guidance at constant rate gives you a sense of where
we think we could land, and also of how do we manage that dilution overall. But we can't give you
a specific number for sure.
A - Marc Dunoyer `
We mentioned, I think I mentioned in my talk, just to complement my answer, that we will be
taking 100% of the R&D of Acerta. But as we only own 55% of the equity of this company, if there
is a loss because of products not yet sold, 45% would flow back. 45% of the loss would flow back
through the minorities.A - Pascal Soriot `
But generally, minus 11% in Q4 is an indication for 2016.
A - Marc Dunoyer `
Well, I said the trend of 2015 on the whole year will increase, but probably not reach 11%.
A - Pascal Soriot `
If I tried to guide you, I mean, we've given you this guidance at constant rate for 2016. We actually
– I'm personally very committed to delivering what we said we would do before. And essentially,
what we would do before in a sort of a roundabout way is that we are going to bottom out in
2016, 2017 and grow from there. We're committed to this. I'm committed to this.
The only thing I can't absolutely forecast is the currency. That's the one thing that is really out of
our hands. And that currency impact, we will do our very best to compensate some or all of it. I
mean, in fact, we are hoping that the currency impact will go the other way and help us. But if it
doesn't help us, we'll do our best to try and compensate this. We can't be sure we will be able to
totally compensate for it, but we are very committed to delivering. I'm committed to delivering
what we said we would do before, which is sort of bottom out over the next one, two years, this
year and next year. It's no longer the next two years, it's this year and next year. And then grow
from there.
Matt?
Q - `Matthew J. Weston, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Thank you. Luke, can I ask a roxadustat question?
Clearly, we get the Chinese data this year and it could prove to be a very exciting start for the
whole class. But can you just remind us on timing of the current approval time in China in terms of
how long it's actually taking on average for a drug to get filed to approval? Because we think of it
as 12 months in Europe and the U.S. But I recall it's potentially significantly longer than that. When
should we think of the commercial opportunity for roxa?
A - Luke Miels `
Sure. So, I mean, just in terms of tracking approval time frames in China, I've seen so many
reports on this, and I've tracked it myself. It's almost impossible to do the analysis because the
key thing for roxadustat is it's actually treated as a local product. So, it's produced. The material is
in China. It's actually a different formulation than the global supply. So, we said the correct
terminology for the Chinese submission for roxa is rolling submission.
A - Operator
(77:26)
A - Sean Bohen `
So, to that end, what we said is that the submission would initiate this year. We did not say there
would be clinical data available this year.
A - Luke Miels `Yeah. But I think the thing to take home, it's very difficult to plan on Chinese regulatory time
frames. However, clearly, it's a product which because we constructed the file there, there's a
dedicated program there in China, you would – I think you could expect that – I mean, obviously,
the profile of the product has to hold up. But it should (78:00 -78:06)
...and China is enormous both in terms of just straight-out dialysis population, also peritoneal
dialysis is quite common in China as well. So, again, this is – there's an attraction there.
And then, if you look at the pre-dialysis population, that's directly correlated with the disease
burden overall with such things like diabetes. And that population in China is, unfortunately, quite
large. So, it remains an attractive product.
A - Pascal Soriot `
The process is not as codified as say a rolling submission in the United States. But it's still, the
product is still part of the – a new process called the Green Pass, and clearly the authorities have
put it in this process because it is a local product, as Luke was explaining.
And it's really addressing an enormous need in China. Diabetes is exploding. Kidney disease is
rapidly growing. They don't have enough dialysis centers. They need new medicines to help
those patients. So, clearly, they have lot of reasons to fast track this project, but it's not very
codified, and so it's hard to predict how long it will take.
Q - `Matthew J. Weston, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. `
Just a very quick follow-up to Sean. When will we see clinical data if it's not this year?
A - Sean Bohen `
I don't recall what we committed. Yes, I think, it was half one next year was what we committed
to. Let me look that up for you. The China...
A - Pascal Soriot `
Whilst you do that, maybe we can move to another question and return to that? Sorry. A little bit
far from this side.
Q - `Kerry Holford, Exane BNP Paribas `
Thank you. It's `Kerry Holford, Exane BNP Paribas from Exane. I have two questions on respiratory, please. So, firstly on
Symbicort, clearly the pressure is stepping up in Europe. So, your thoughts on how that will evolve
from here, but also, your expectation in the U.S. market potentially generic, that we can debate,
but how you think about that, and what you put into your guidance your expectations there for
Symbicort?
And then secondly, on PT003, is there anything that you can learn from GSK's experience with
Anoro. And clearly now, they've struggled to take share since the revert, and they appear to be
reverting back to pushing their single agent LAMA in combination with RIO to offer the open
triple. Would you then have the opportunity to do until you have your closed triple? So, what can
you do with PT003 in the meantime? Thank you.
A - Luke Miels `
Yeah. So I'll break that into chunks. So, with Europe, we've got three analogues there, but we'veautomatic mechanical drop in the price. So, if you're out of that control, so really then you're
arguing over volume. And we've maintained that volume effectively.
So, I don't – I mean, we're certainly – we don't guide it by product levels, but there's been some
figures floating around out there. I think it's fair to say that we have – we're quite confident about
that market. There will be pressure on Symbicort in Europe, but again I don't – again, we're quite
comfortable with where it's going as a trajectory, and where it's holding, and our ability to hold
that.
Remember, we've been able to grow share with Symbicort globally. We've actually grown share in
the U.S. too. If we look at the U.S. there is price pressure. But again, volume does compensate for
that. Again, we've picked up MBRX, we've picked up TRX. So, in sort of a marketing battle, I think
we can keep share and hold it. So there will be price pressure, but not catastrophic price
pressure.
In terms of generics in the U.S., what's being disclosed publicly is exactly in line with what we had
in our own internal forecast and what we built a long-range plan on, so – and that's filing, of
course. We have to see if they get approved, and we know this is quite a complex history with
inhaled molecules in the U.S.
In terms of changes in the dynamics of the market. I think in some levels, there's a timeframe
there for the payers. So, they've got this on the horizon. So, it actually changes the dynamics in
terms of the tradeoffs that companies are prepared to make. Again, we look at each negotiation
in terms of that balance between supporting value and not destroying value, and then also
market share, and try and make an intelligent decision out of each one of those events.
In terms of PT003, maybe I just focus on – I mean, I've said this before with respect to dap, it was
a little bit longer than I was hoping for. But there is an advantage in coming second. Sometimes
you can learn.
I think there's broader dynamics which now that BI has entered the marketplace with their
LAMA/LABA, that's starting to change things before with Stiolto. That may shake things up a bit
more and dislodge some of these patients who are on a LABA and are quite sticky.
But there's lot things that we can lean in terms of preparing the market, doing some work there,
and we've shown in Europe with our other LAMA/LABA that we can take share and compete. So,
with 003, I think were quite confident.
Ultimately it depends on the label you get, but we're optimistic, and we think there'll be a high
demand of this product in that formulation.
A - Pascal Soriot `
It's one of those classes that takes time to develop, but it's a very dynamic market, and the
problem is that the share of dynamic patients is actually limited in the total prescription volume.
But if you look at the dynamic market itself, based in certain number of countries, 40% to 50% of
new scripts, new initiations are for LABA/LAMA away from Spiriva. So, it's actually starting to pick
up in quite a number of markets. The problem is that it really takes time for those new initiations
to turn into a large volume of total prescriptions.
Should we go back to...?
A - Operator(1:23:50)
A - Pascal Soriot `
(1:23:54).
A - Sean Bohen `
Think there's a lady at the back here...
A - Pascal Soriot `
Oh, I'm sorry.
A - Sean Bohen `
(1:23:58).
A - Pascal Soriot `
Okay. Yeah. (1:23:59).
A - Sean Bohen `
Do you want me to answer the roxadustat in China question?
A - Pascal Soriot `
Yeah. Okay. Sorry. Yes. If you have the answer.
A - Sean Bohen `
Let me go back to the roxadustat. So it's 2017, it's a – but again, the submission is rolling, it's
ongoing. And then, we don't – as Luke said we're not 100% sure what the review time is. It's not
codified. 2017 there will be data from other trials outside of China as well.
Q - `Marietta E. Miemietz, Primavenue `
Marietta Miemietz, Primavenue. Just wanted to make sure I understand your SG&A comments
correctly. So, presumably most of the cost that you're looking to take out over the next couple of
years, that's actually primary care infrastructure which you can basically take out as soon as the
loss of exclusivity occurs and not a minute earlier. And then you just have, let's say, a three to six
months lag effect before it actually comes out of your core P&L because it just takes some time
to get down to brass tacks with the employee representative. So, is that the right way of looking
at it in terms of modeling, or do you actually think that you can make any significant
improvements to marketing effectiveness in emerging markets or specialty care. And if so, how
would that come about?
And then just a very quick question on the Tagrisso Japanese label, you're expecting given that
the Japanese are really known for granting quite broad labels in oncology and not so much
dissecting between different segments.
A - Pascal Soriot `
So Sean, maybe you can cover the second question. Let me just cover the first one very quickly. Iwork a lot on admin costs, IT costs. We reduced – I mean, our goal was to reduce by 30% from
2014 to 2016. We've gone quite a bit – quite a long way, we still have more to go this year. We're
working on site cost. We're working on a variety of G&A cost
When it comes to pure commercial cost, you're right that there is quite a bit of cost reductions
that then come out of reducing our effort in primary care over time. But we also have a program
to improve productivity and efficiency in our commercial teams in all the emerging markets. We
have an entire program that is focused on that. We've increased a lot the size of our teams in
China in a number of countries through the acquisition of the diabetes business, but also through
expansion of our teams. We're now focusing really hard on improving the productivity of those
teams.
So, there's a whole range of sources of cost savings and productivity improvement.
We'll come back – can we have one or two more questions? Okay, Sachin?
A - Sean Bohen `
Do you want me to answer the Tagrisso ...?
A - Pascal Soriot `
Sorry, Tagrisso Japanese.
A - Sean Bohen `
So it's a little hard to speculate on the label. But regulators do what they want based on what see
in the data. The observation I will make is that the EU label is different than the United States
label. In United States, we have the T790M, but then you have to have failed first-generation
EGFR molecule. In EU, the T790M is in there, but this first-generation having previously been
treated is not in there. Japan does tend not to make little cutouts in its labels. So, we'll see what
happens. I can't really be sure.
A - Pascal Soriot `
Sachin, maybe and that will be the last question. Thomas (1:27:32). Okay.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Sorry. Thanks for taking my follow-ons. Just one on cash flow. Given the vagaries of the P&L, I
wonder if you'd just comment on cash flows. Operating free cash flow was roughly $2.5 billion
and didn't have the dividend this year, and that included $1 billion for externalization. So just any
color on whether free cash flow will cover dividend in 2016, and how we should think about it on
two or three year view given the progressive dividend policy.
And then one on Brilinta. You mentioned in your intro comments that an inflection might be seen
post guidelines update. So, just any color on when we could expect that.
A - Pascal Soriot `
On the Brilinta side, we have actually seen already an inflection in the DDDs in the hospitals, and
that reflects a pickup in initiation. But, Luke, do you want to cover this, and, Marc you cover the
second one?And right now if we look at the volumes on the sixth year, I mean it's still relatively early days, but
the DDD, yeah, really did jump. And if we look at the data in terms of who is being put on 60,
we're pleased to say that 70% of those patients are actually beyond 12 months or around 12
months for Brilinta.
In terms of guidelines, I mean, it's difficult to speculate. I mean, we hear certain things. We have
asked questions. You've got the ACC of course and the AHA coming up. So, it's around key
congresses like that where alignment tends to be there. I would just direct you back to the label
in the U.S. with the statements around clopidogrel and just the broad nature of the label, which
again gave us some confidence. We'll see what we get. We asked lots of questions about it.
A - Marc Dunoyer `
So, turning to the cash flow, basically you can – the level of net cash flow will be similar in 2016 as
they are in 2015. We need to understand the contributory nature of the extent of those revenues
but also on the other income. It does contribute obviously to our cash flows. And it helps us
sustain a relatively high level of R&D. So, one needs to understand that the external revenues is
not only to sustain the cash flow, but the cash flow can be reinvested in R&D. I think this whole
cycle needs to be understood.
A - Pascal Soriot `
The cash flow will be the same in 2016 more or less the same as in 2015. But I think Marc is raising
another point, which is an important one, is externalization revenue is helping us to create long-
term value by partnering with someone who will turn a product that we probably would not do so
well ourselves with because it's not part of our core strength. So, long-term value, but also short-
term value because some of that money we reinvest immediately in building a strong pipeline.
We could save money and still deliver the same EPS with less externalization, less cost. Would we
create a better business long-term? Probably not.
Q - Operator
(1:30:21).
A - Pascal Soriot `
I think your remark is true for the year 2016. It will be very similar to 2015. But we also need to see
that. And we have provided the – in early 2014 a signpost for 2017 where we said that basically
the revenues would be more or less broadly in line with 2013 at constant exchange rate. I think
you can just extrapolate from this in many, many, position in the P&L. What we are doing is
increasing our pressure on cost discipline and our pressure on SG&A, but we have conversely
also increased the R&D spend.
So maybe with that one I could call this meeting to a close, and then thank you for joining us. But
in parting, just let me wrap up leaving you with a few messages.
First of all, we're very much committed to the dividend. Nobody should ever doubt our
commitment to a dividend. Two is we're very committed – I'm committed, as I said, to delivering
what we told you we'd deliver on bottom out in 2016, 2017, grow after this.
So our guidance is in the range of this. And hopefully the question is not whether we deliver plus,
minus 3% or 5% on this core EPS in 2016, 2017, but what kind of long-term value we're creating
through the pipeline? But we are very committed to this bottoming out.Again, the thing that we don't totally control is currencies. Currency movement. And we'll do our
best to compensate some of those movements, if they are negative, if they are positive, we'll
just welcome them, of course. But we cannot guarantee that we'll be able to manage those. But
certainly very committed, again, to managing this 2016, 2017 period of time.
Again, I think we're making great progress through the pipeline. We're launching our new
products, Tagrisso is doing very well. So, really hopefully we can focus ourselves on the post-2017
period of time. In the meantime, through this externalization and cost savings, we really are
defending our IPS and hopefully, at some point, everybody will agree that externalization did
work, and we crated long-term value.
So, with this, thank you so much for joining us today.