Y 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning to those joining from the UK and the US. Good afternoon to those in Central
Europe. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to AstraZeneca's Full-year 2021 Results Conference
Call and Webcast for investors and analysts. Before I hand over to AstraZeneca, I'd like to read
the Safe Harbor Statement. The Company intends to utilize the Safe Harbor provisions of the
United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Participants on this call may make forward-looking statements with respect to the operations and
financial performance of AstraZeneca. Although we believe our expectations are based on
reasonable assumptions by their very nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and
uncertainties and may be influenced by factors that could cause actual results to differ materially
from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking
statements made on this call reflect the knowledge and information available at the time of this
call. The company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements. Please also
carefully review the forward-looking statements disclaimer in the slide deck that accompanies thisThere will be an opportunity to ask questions after today's presentations. (Operator Instructions)
And with that, I'd now like to hand the conference over to AstraZeneca.
`Chris Shelton, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Martin. And good afternoon everybody. I'm Chris Sheldon, Head of Investor Relations
at AstraZeneca. I'm pleased to welcome you to AstraZeneca's full-year 2021 Conference Call. All
materials presented are available on our website and slide 2 has the usual Safe Harbor
statements. We will be making comments on our performance using constant exchange rates or
CER, core financial numbers and other non-GAAP measures, and non-GAAP to GAAP
reconciliation is contained within the results announcement. Numbers used are in million US
dollars and for the full-year 2021 unless otherwise stated. Please advance to slide 3. This slide
shows today's speakers from our senior executive team. In a moment I'll hand you over to our
CEO, `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer to begin.
Please turn to slide 4. Following our prepared remarks, we will open the line for questions. We ask
that you kindly try and limit yourself to one question and one follow-up to give everybody a fair
opportunity to participate in Q&A during the allotted time. (Operator Instructions) Please advance
to slide 5 and with that, please. Pascal, over to you.
`Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Chris. And hello everyone. So if you move to slide 6 please, 2021 was an exceptional
year from a pipeline delivery but also on commercial execution across our whole portfolio of
medicines. This included the delivery of 2.5 billion doses of our COVID-19 vaccine, Vaxzevria and
the recent emergency use authorization of Evusheld for the prevention of COVID-19 in certain or
high-risk populations, even our immunocompromised people.
Importantly, we completed the acquisition of Alexion which accelerates our strategic and financial
development. I want really to thank amazing team of people around the world. We have worked
so hard throughout 2021 across the world to deliver these fantastic results and bring this life-
changing medicines to patients across the globe. With the inclusion of Alexion from 21st of July,
we delivered total revenue for the year of over $37 billion, an increase of 38%. The revenue is
excluding Vaxzevria increased by 23% and the revenue including only Q4 Vaxzevria increased by
30%. I'm quoting those numbers because they were the guidance we gave at the end of Q3 and
as you can see here, we achieved our guidance, in fact we overachieved it as it relates total
revenue including Vaxzevria for Q4. Our core EPS was $5.29, 37% growth at CER. And if you look
at CER, we also overachieved our guidance from an EPS viewpoint.
Our commitment to follow the science resulted in five new medical entities forward in the Europe
We've seen unprecedented news flow with 14 positive III readouts across nine medicines in 2021
with the potential to change standard of care in multiple diseases. Moving to slide 7, please. The
performance in the periods was driven by strong growth across our diversified disease areas in
multiple geographies. The US, Europe and the Established Rest of the World total revenue also
strong growth in the full year.
In the emerging markets overall, we have seen double-digit growth at 10% exclusive of Vaxzevria
revenues and despite some pricing headwinds in China associated with NRDL and VBP programs.
Total revenue in China declined in the second half of the year due to this pricing pressure and in
the fourth quarter, our revenues in China declined by 9%.
This resulted in overall growth for China at 4% for the full year and importantly, we had a strong
performance in the emerging markets out of China, so the whole is still very good growth for thetotality of the emerging markets. Overall, we (inaudible) our 2021 total revenue guidance
excluding Vaxzevria revenue, and here, we exceeded updated guidance provided in the last
quarter when we included the Q4 2021 Vaxzevria revenue.
So if we move to slide 8, we are confident in the long-term astute for the business due in large
part to durable growth of our portfolio. We have a diverse disease area and the geographic
presence and we have a robust late-stage weighted pipeline. This is the strengths of our model,
a diversified portfolio with several blockbusters. We are not depending on one or two large
products. We have a whole range of blockbuster products, and we also have a diversified
geographical footprint and that's important because when one geography faces challenges,
other geographies pick up the slack and in fact that's what happened in 2021. As China faced
challenges, the US, Europe and the rest of the world enabled us to deliver still a pretty strong
growth across the company.
So if we move to slide 9, beyond 2025, we expect to deliver our long-term sustainable growth
for multiple activities. First, our robust life-cycle management strategy for several of our on-
market medicines should provide additional growth opportunities in the future with many of them
already are blockbuster status.
Secondly, we will continue to invest in our large developments pipeline, with 15 NMEs and late-
stage development and 128 NMEs on major LCM projects in our combined Phase II and Phase III
stage pipeline. Some attrition will occur of course, but we are confident in the overall quality of
these programs that represent many best or first-in-class prospects with the potential to redefine
cure and standards of care.
Certainly, we continue to look for opportunities to reinforce our portfolio through value-enhancing
business development. Beyond acquisition of Alexion in Rare Diseases, our oncology partnership
with Daiichi Sankyo for Dato-DXd and the recent amyloidosis focus, they solidify our belief that
the best has, doesn't happen in isolation.
Finally, our current portfolio and it is an important point. Our current portfolio of marketing
medicines has a industry-leading lots of exclusivity profile. If you look at it, most of our products
are patent protection past 2030 and about less than 20% of our 2021 sales that are affected by
federal expiries or loss of exclusivity I should say before 2030.
So with this, the continued growth of our broad breadth of products and additional launches,
additional new products, we are confident that post 2025, we should be able to continue
growing. And these activities reinforce our ambition to achieve a mid to high 30s operating
margin percentage of other mid to long term, which is dependent on a number of factors
including of course successful pipeline and commercial execution as well as the evolution of our
business mix over time.
Slide 10 please. Lastly, reflecting on our exceptional late-stage pipeline delivery, I'd like to
highlight (inaudible) regulatory decisions for three medicines in the last quarter with the CHMP
positive opinion for Saphnelo in EU, US approval for Tezspire, and US Emergency-Use
Authorizations for Evusheld.
I'll now hand over to `Aradhana Sarin, Chief Financial Officer, our CFO, who will walk you through our financial
performance and take you throughout 2022 financial guidance. Over to you, Aradhana. Please
move to slide 11.
`Aradhana Sarin, Chief Financial Officer `Thank you, Pascal and hello everyone. As usual, I will start with our reported P&L. Please turn to
slide 12. As Pascal has highlighted, total revenue increased by 38% in 2021. Excluding our COVID-
19 vaccine, total revenue increased by 23% in the year. Our reported operating profit decreased
to $1.1 billion in the year with an operating loss in the fourth quarter.
The Alexion transaction has impacted our reported numbers as we amortize the purchase
intangibles over their economic useful life. We have also previously mentioned that the inventory
Alexion had at the time of the acquisition was valued at fair value in AstraZeneca's books at the
closure of the transaction.
And this fair value uplift affects reported numbers as cost of goods are sold. In line with previous
comments, we anticipate to see this impact to last approximately 18 months post acquisition.
Following the Alexion acquisition towards the end of 2021, we undertook a comprehensive
operational review across the rest of the organization aimed at integrating systems and
optimizing our global manufacturing footprint and looking at resource allocation across our
portfolio. As a result of this restructuring, we anticipate incurring one-time costs of approximately
$2.1 billion of which approximately $1.4 billion are cash costs, and $0.7 billion are non-cash costs
and capital investments of approximately $200 million. These activities are anticipate to realize
run rate pre-tax benefits before reinvestments of about $1.2 billion by the end of 2025.
These costs and the benefits include the previously announced Alexion synergy numbers that
remain in line with what we have communicated previously. Consistent with established practiced,
these restructuring costs will be excluded from our core non-GAAP financial measures. We
booked some initial costs relating to this review in Q4 2021 contributing to higher restructuring
charges in the quarter, which also impacted the tax rate which I'll come back to.
Please turn to slide 13. This is our core P&L for Q4 and full-year 2021. The gross margin declined
by 4.7 percentage points in 2021 versus 2020, negatively impacted by Vaxzevria, our COVID-19
vaccine, the vast majority of which was on a non-for-profit basis. We have also previously
highlighted that we continue to see some downward pressure on our gross margins from the
VBP and NRDL programs in China.
In addition, the continued success of our partner medicines including Lynparza and the profit-
sharing arrangements have put additional pressure on the gross margin percentage. This
downward pressure has been partly offset by the addition of Alexion whose products have a
higher gross margin.
Our core R&D costs of close to $8 billion were just over 20% of total revenue and this is broadly
in line with the steady state we have indicated, we expect going forward as we remain
committed to investing in future growth. Our core SG&A costs increased by 15% to $11.1 billion.
This includes Alexion from end of July 2021 versus AstraZeneca standalone 2020, so it is not a
like-for-like comparison. We have continued to invest behind new launches and the recent
positive pipeline data has also resulted in some increased launch and pre-launch investments,
including Saphnelo, Tezspire, and Enhertu; however, we continue to manage our SG&A spend
and drive operating leverage in the business, which we define as growth in revenue exceeding
growth in operating expenses.
Our core tax rate was 16.6% in 2021, partly impacted by the non-taxable gain from the Viela
divestment, which impacted both the reported and core tax rate for full-year 2021. We also had
some reductions in tax liabilities arising from updates to estimates of prior period tax liabilities
following settlements with tax authorities and the expiry of the statute of limitations, whichWe don't anticipate these one-off items to recur in 2022. Our full-year 2021 core EPS was $5.29.
Our core EPS growth at constant exchange rates for the full year was 37% implying core EPS on a
CER basis above our guidance range of $5.05 to $5.40. Note that there were some negative FX
impact seen during the year, especially in the fourth quarter.
Some of the currencies we're exposed to on the manufacturing side, including British Sterling
appreciated versus the dollar in fourth quarter 2021 versus fourth quarter 2020 while some of our
key revenue currencies depreciated, which contributed to a negative FX impact in the quarter.
Note that our guidance is always on a constant exchange rate basis and we try to provide
indication where possible on FX impact.
Please turn to slide 14. Today, we are pleased to announce our full year guidance for 2022. We
expect total revenue to grow by a high-teens percentage at constant exchange rates. This
includes a full-year contribution from the Alexion business and our COVID-19 medicines now a
part of our core business following the establishment of our vaccines and immune therapies
disease area. Total revenue from the COVID-19 medicines is anticipated to decline by low to mid
20s percentage with an expected decline in the sales of Vaxzevria being partially offset by
growth in Evusheld sales. The majority of vaccine revenues in 2022 is expected to come from
non-for-profit contract.
As expected, the gross profit margin from the COVID-19 medicines is expected to be lower than
the company average. The ex-COVID gross margin is anticipated to be relatively stable versus
last year given the puts and takes previously mentioned. We will continue to make disciplined
investments in order to maximize shareholder value.
Core operating expenses are expected to grow by low to mid-teens percentage for the full year
2022. This includes continued investment in our COVID-19 franchise. Core EPS is expected to
grow by a mid to high 20s percentage on a constant exchange rate basis. Based on average
January FX rates, we anticipate a low single-digit percentage adverse FX impact on both actual
total revenue and core EPS in 2022.
Our core tax rate for 2022 is anticipated to be between 18% and 22%. As usual, we are
anticipating to see both some headwinds and tailwinds over the course of the year. We continue
to see pricing pressure in China and anticipate to see a mid single-digit percentage decline in
revenue in 2022 compared to 2021. The decline in China is expected to be offset by strong
growth in ex-China emerging markets and we anticipate a mid single-digit growth in 2022 across
the emerging markets region as a whole.
Our long-term ambition of growing by a high single-digit in emerging markets overall remains
intact. In addition, we continue to see impact of COVID-19 on oncology and respiratory diagnosis
and treatment rates. There are also pricing dynamics that are impacting some of our medicines
the Dave will speak further about. On the positive side, 2022 will be the first full year of Alexion
ownership. We expect continued strong growth for some of our key medicines including Farxiga,
Tagrisso, Calquence and Enhertu and we continue to see strong momentum in ex-China
emerging markets. Finally, we're excited about the opportunity of our COVID-19 Antibody
Evusheld, which offers protection for certain high-risk populations.
Please turn to slide 15. Our current net debt is $24.3 billion, up from $12.1 billion at the beginning
of the year, with the increase relating to the acquisition of Alexion. Our current net debt to
EBITDA is 3.2 times. If you adjust for the Alexion inventory fair value uplift, our net debt to EBITDA
is 2.5 times.Our operating cash flow has improved in line with expectations and we remain committed to
reducing our net debt. It is also worth highlighting that we do have some committed BD-related
payments this year including to Daiichi Sankyo. Also in January 2022, we made the first out of
three payments to former shareholders of Acerta. Our capital allocation priorities remain
unchanged. We're keen to keep a strong investment-grade rating and we will continue to reinvest
in the business.
We will also continue to do value-enhancing business development when we believe it makes
sense to do so. We are pleased to share that the Board has approved a second interim dividend
for fiscal year 2021 of $1.97 payable in March 2022. Reflecting increased confidence in future
growth and cash generation, the Board intends to increase the annual dividend by $0.10 to $2.90.
We intend to continue to balance the annual dividends declared broadly in the ratio of one-third
as to the first interim dividend payable in September and two-thirds as to the second interim
dividend payable in March.
With that, I will hand over to Dave to cover Oncology.
`David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President - Oncology Business `
Thank you, Aradhana. Slide 16 please. We're pleased to report that our Oncology total revenue
grew 17% during 2021, finishing the year on a strong note with 21% year-on-year growth in the
fourth quarter. That performance speaks to the global momentum of new launches and the
diversity of our portfolio in the face of continued headwinds from COVID-19.
Last quarter, we commented that oncology diagnosis rates were improving; however, Omicron
has stalled that recovery and we estimate that year-end diagnosis rates are still 5% to 15% below
pre-COVID baseline levels with lung and ovarian most impacted and a lesser impact in breast and
CLL.
With that said against this backdrop, strong commercial execution grew Oncology to $13.7 billion
for the year with a return to sequential growth of Tagrisso and robust performances from Imfinzi,
Lynparza, Calquence and Enhertu. We were pleased across a number of important milestones in
the fourth quarter. Tagrisso past $5 billion in annual sales. For the first time, Lynparza past $2
billion and Calquence $1 billion with total Oncology revenues in the quarter nearing $4 billion.
On slide 17, which is our lung cancer franchise, both Tagrisso and Imfinzi showed strong growth in
2021 at 13% and 16% respectively. In the US and Europe, Tagrisso continues to grow from rising
first-line duration of treatment and increased adjuvant use, which is partially offset by declining
second line use and the aforementioned pandemic impact on diagnosis. In Japan, strong
commercial execution field growth of 8% for the year, bringing annual sales to $775 million. At this
run rate, Japan's MHLW may assess in 2022 that annual spending on the medicine exceeds
JPY100 billion, a milestone, which could trigger a mandatory price cut this year based on a
formulaic application of that rule.
Several however future growth catalysts remain for Tagrisso in Japan, notably ADAURA which we
hope to see approved in the second half of this year. In emerging markets, Tagrisso growth for
the year was 6% after our third quarter that was impacted by inventory movements in China, EM
growth in Q4 accelerated to 23% versus the same quarter last year and as anticipated demand
growth in China for the quarter is now fully compensating for the lower NRDL price based on
increasing first-line use and strong second-line share performance.
Beyond China, Tagrisso continues to benefit from increasing reimbursement and increased rates
of testing. Imfinzi continues to solidify its position as the global standard of care in the Pacific andCaspian settings which sets the foundation for anticipated future launches in gastrointestinal
cancers based on the HIMALAYA and TOPAZ-1 data that we recently discussed with many of you
at ASCO GI.
Please turn to slide 18. Lynparza continued to deliver strong growth across tumor types and
territories, increasing product sales by 30% to $2.3 billion and triggering a $400 million sales
milestone from our partner Merck in the quarter. US sales were up 24% driven by greater use in
ovarian, prostate, and notably breast cancer. Growth in Europe established Rest of World and
China is supported by continued growth in HRD testing and launches in new markets for ovarian
cancer.
We look forward to sharing the data from the PROpel Phase III trial in first-line metastatic castrate-
resistant prostate cancer at ASCO GU later this month. Please turn to slide 19. We are pleased to
see Calquence achieve blockbuster status in the quarter, driven by a robust share performance in
the US and our chronic lymphocytic leukemia indication and continued momentum from new
launches in Europe.
We were pleased to see Calquence achieve blockbuster status in the quarter, driven by a robust
share performance in the US where Calquence continues to be the leading BTKI with around 55%
of new patient share in CLL as well as continued momentum from new launches in Europe.
Moving on to Enhertu, 2021 saw good momentum, particularly in the US in the third-line breast
and second-line gastric cancer indications, we were encouraged that both the NCCN and ESMO
guidelines were updated to include Enhertu as a new standard of care in HER-2 positive
metastatic breast cancer. Together with our partner, Daiichi Sankyo, launch efforts are in full swing
as we prepare for the eagerly anticipated global approvals of DESTINY-Breast03.
I'll now hand it over to Susan to discuss our R&D progress in 2021 and opportunities in 2022.
`Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice-President, Oncology R&D `
Thank you, Dave. Please turn to slide 20, 2021 was another fantastic year for our research and
development efforts in oncology. We saw exemplary clinical progress across multiple tumor types
as we continue with our mission to bring step change benefits to patients to new medicines and
depends on understanding of disease biology. I'll now take you through some of the main
highlights of what was a busy autumn conference season. At the San Antonio Breast Cancer
Symposium, datopotamab deruxtecan or TROP2-targeted antibody-drug conjugate showed
encouraging efficacy in triple-negative breast cancer with an impressive objective response rate
of 53% in patients who are treatment-naive (inaudible) inhibitor-based ADC therapies.
In Hematology, we delivered updated durable three-year median follow-up results from the
ASCEND Phase III trial in which Calquence significantly prolonged investigator-assessed
progression-free survival versus standard-of-care combinations in relapsed or refractory chronic
lymphocytic leukemia.
In addition, we have now submitted the Elevate Plus data for Calquence's immediate-release
maleate tablet formulation in the US and Europe, providing a new option for patients that will
allow for co-administration with proton pump inhibitors; and therefore, expanding Calquence's
reach. Lastly, as showcased in our ASCO GI investor event just a few weeks ago, our immuno-
oncology franchise saw remarkable results in hepatobiliary cancers with positive data for the
HIMALAYA and TOPAZ-1 trials, and we look forward to discussing the data with regulators as soon
as possible.We also saw impressive data from Enhertu at ASCO GI including results from the Phase II
DESTINY CRC01 trial with an objective response rate of 45.3% as well as a median overall survival
of 15.5 months. The 2022 is full of exciting news flow for AstraZeneca and I look forward to
informing you of our progress. I'll now hand over to Ruud to cover BioPharmaceuticals.
`Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice-President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Thank you so much, Susan. Now turning to slide 22. In Cardiovascular and Renal Metabolism, total
revenues in the year were up 9% to $8 billion with the vast majority of growth coming from
Farxiga's continued strong performance. Farxiga sales grew 49% in the year to $3 billion and
remains in the number one contributor to AstraZeneca's revenue growth with over $1 billion
coming from the emerging markets.
Farxiga also continues its remarkable trajectory as the fastest growing SGLT2 inhibitor globally
and is now the market leader following successful launches in heart failure and chronic kidney
disease, with 103 and 74 approvals respectively. We expected to deliver Phase III trial for Farxiga
in heart failure with preserved ejection fraction to readout in the first half of this year.
Lokelma continued its growth trajectory with revenues of $175 million in the year. In the US,
Lokelma continued its leadership in the branded potassium binder market and in Japan, its
market share increased to 46%. In Europe, the launch continues to roll-out achieving branded
market leadership in new markets like Spain and Belgium and is now reimbursed in 11 markets.
Importantly, Lokelma was included for the first time on the China NRDL and Farxiga was retained.
Please move to slide 23. Turning to Respiratory and Immunology, total revenues surpassed $6
billion, a remarkable achievement considering the ongoing effects of COVID with growth of 9% in
the year. Fasenra reached blockbuster status delivering product sales of almost $1.3 billion, up
31% and continues to be the leading respiratory biologic prescribed for eosinophilic asthma
globally. Fasenra's performance has been driven by sustained growth in new to brand patient
starts in both the US and Europe. Breztri with product sales of $203 million is now approved in 39
countries. Within the fast growing triple fixed-dose combination class, Breztri has gained 30%
branded market share and in our key markets of the US, China and Japan, has captured 23.5% of
the markets.
Switching to Saphnelo. We have had a pleasing start to launches in the US and Japan for our
biologic treatments in systemic lupus erythematosus. In the US, we estimated around 600
healthcare practitioners have prescribed Saphnelo with a high proportion of patients being
biologic naive or receiving standard therapy. In Japan following the reimbursement in November,
formerly listing submissions are underway and the first patients have already received their first
dose of treatments.
Please turn to slide 24. Following approval in the United States, Tezspire is now the first and only
biologic approved for severe asthma without a phenotype or biomarker limitation. Importantly,
Tezspire is the only biologic proven to significantly reduce exacerbations in patients with blood
eosinophil levels below 300 cells per microliter. We see a compelling value proposition for
Tezspire, an opportunity to immediately address a key unmet needs for severe asthma patients.
We launched in the US in January and our regulatory submissions are underway in Europe and
Japan.
Please turn to slide 25. Now onto the Emerging Markets where total revenue grew to $12.3 billion.
Growth rates excluding vaccines were 4% in China and 20% in emerging markets ex-China.
Farxiga has continued its remarkable growth of 70% in 2021 as it continues to benefit fromincreased patient access in China following NRDL listing, broader access across other markets in
the region and successful launches for heart failure and chronic kidney disease indications.
As expected, Pulmicort sales were impacted by VBP-5 which was implemented in October. This
resulted in significantly lower market access and mandatory price reduction in China. VBP-7 is due
in the first half of 2022 and will include Seloken Zoc, Prilosec and Bricanyl Respules. Outside of
China, we saw broad-based growth across all regions. A $6.3 billion of sales, up 89% year-on-
year of which $2.3 billion came from Vaxzevria. I will now hand over to Mene to cover the R&D
advancements in the periods.
`Menelas Pangalos, Executive Vice President - Research & Development BioPharmaceuticals `
Thank you, Ruud. Please can we turn to slide 26. The 2021 was an extremely productive year for
AstraZeneca's BioPharmaceuticals R&D with four first approvals for new molecular entities;
Saphnelo for systemic lupus erythematosus, Tezspire for severe asthma, and Vaxzevria and
Evusheld for COVID-19. And Q4 was a busy quarter with the approval of Tezspire, which will
enable us to start an extensive lifecycle management program, Farxiga's pediatric program, a
good progress with the regulators and Saphnelo received a positive recommendation from the
CHMP in Europe.
Evusheld was granted US Emergency Use Authorization in the prophylaxis setting and has now
been authorized in 11 countries with more on the way. Evusheld remains the only antibody therapy
authorized for the prevention of COVID-19. And multiple analyses by institutions, such as the US
FDA and Washington University have shown that Evusheld retains neutralizing activity against the
Omicron variant. Similarly, several analyses published in recent months demonstrate Vaxzevria's
ability to offer continued protection against COVID-19 including against the Omicron variant.
Results comparing Vaxzevria to AZD2816 showed the both vaccines were broadly similar in their
immune response to variants of concern, enabling us to focus our efforts on Vaxzevria.
Finally in Q4, we added eplontersen to our late-stage pipeline through a partnership with Ionis
Pharmaceuticals. Eplontersen is in Phase III trials for the treatment of two forms of transthyretin
amyloidosis and was recently granted Orphan Drug designation by the FDA. I will now hand over
to Marc to cover Rare Diseases, and he will also provide more details on how eplontersen fits
within the AstraZeneca portfolio.
`Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer Alexion `
Please turn to slide 28. Rare Disease delivered total revenue of $3 billion in 2021, the year-on-
year increase of 9% on a pro forma cohort basis calculated since the date the acquisition closed.
The growth rate for the fourth quarter of 2021 in total revenues was 11%. Total revenue in the
period were driven by strong growth across all geographies and on a product level by durable
Soliris volume growth in neurology indication and successful conversion to Ultomiris.
Alexion's leading C5 complement franchise continues to deliver durable pro forma cohort growth
of 8% since the date of acquisition and 11% for the fourth quarter despite new competitive
entrants in PNH and NMO and ongoing COVID-19 headwinds impacting Ultomiris conversion in a
typical HUS which is predominantly treated in hospital or emergency settings. Beyond the
complement franchise, we continue to see strong performance in the metabolic portfolio with
increased demand driving pro forma cohort growth in Strensiq and Kanuma of 13% and 21%
respectively. We continue to assess the opportunity for further geographic expansion to broaden
the reach of our Rare Disease medicines.Please turn to slide 29. We recently reinforced our commitment on amyloidosis with two new
collaborations in TTR amyloidosis. One with Ionis for their TTR silencer, eplontersen and another
with Neurimmune for global rights of their TTR depleter, NI006. These collaborations add two
new modalities relevant in TTR amyloidosis to our broader amyloidosis portfolio, which also
includes Japanese rights to the TTR stabilizer, acoramidis (inaudible) currently in Phase III for the
treatment of AL amyloidosis.
Within TTR amyloidosis, they are deferring biological mechanism of action which (inaudible)
transthyretin deposit including stabilizers, silencers and depleters. In ATTR cardiomyopathy, we
believe multiple modalities will be necessary to address the full spectrum of disease severity.
Amyloidosis presents an opportunity to leverage AstraZeneca and Alexion in cardiovascular and
Rare Disease, including our growing presence (inaudible) with Farxiga.
Commonly misdiagnosed as heart failure with preserved ejection fraction, amyloidosis
represents a significant market adjacency with high unmet need. With our newly expanded
amyloidosis portfolio, we have a comprehensive go-to-market strategy to leverage (inaudible)
synergies given the overlap of heart failure and amyloidosis in treatment settings. We are excited
about the potential to bring innovative medicines to amyloidosis patients while also leveraging
strengths of AstraZeneca and Alexion, and we look forward to providing you with development
update as we go forward.
Please turn to slide 30. Rare Disease represents a key growth opportunity for AstraZeneca with
meaningful potential for science-led innovation, which is reinforced by our robust late-stage
weighted pipeline with ongoing lifecycle management trials in complement and a growing
number of late-stage programs outside of the complement space. We continue to invest in Rare
Disease and the fourth quarter made progress in prelaunch activities for Ultomiris in myasthenia
gravis, amyloidosis business development and the planned expansion of our New Haven
research facility as well as the establishment of a European development hub in Barcelona.
I take this opportunity to express my gratitude to my colleagues at Alexion for maintaining the
level of service to our patients in a year of transition and integration. Now please turn to slide 31
and I'll turn the call back to Pascal.
`Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Marc, and please next slide 32. I will now comment briefly on important upcoming
news flow across the company in the coming year ahead. In Oncology, we anticipate data from
Enhertu's DESTINY-Breast04 trial in HER2-low breast cancer this quarter. We also anticipate
multiple Imfinzi results across lung, liver and cervical cancers with the PEARL, PACIFIC-2, the old
one and CALLA studies during the year (inaudible), we will have data from the DELIVER trial for
Farxiga in HFpEF, and in Rare Disease, we expect data from Ultomiris in NMOSD. We also look
forward to data from eplontersen in ATTR polyneuropathy trial partnership with Ionis. As you can
see, there is a lot more than what I have quoted, a very rich pipeline and lots of news again in
2022 and we will have a very rich series of news flows into 2023 as well.
Moving to slide 33, we are pleased to finish the year on a strong note. We exceeded our 2021
goals and guidance and we believe we are well positioned to deliver long-term durable growth in
the years to come. We've committed to double-digit growth on CAGR basis for 2025. Beyond
2025, I believe we will continue to have industry-leading growth from our innovative medicines,
our robust internal pipeline supplemented with smart business development and also an
attractive exclusivity profile for many of our marketed medicines.We maintain our ambition for the operating margin of mid to high 30s percentage in the mid to
long term. In 2022, we anticipate another year of double-digit revenue growth in the high teens,
together with growth in core EPS of about mid to high 20s, all of this at constant exchange rate.
Thank you all for joining us today. We will now take questions after the questions, I'll go back to
Chris. So if I can open the questions please.
Questions And Answers
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
So the first question is `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research at Wolfe Research. Tim, go ahead.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Thank you. I have a couple of questions on China. So you're talking about long-term emerging
market growth for Emerging Markets being high single digits percent, China is about half of
emerging markets and what we're seeing I think in the last few quarters, is that it's really the non-
China emerging markets that are growing faster than China at this point.
My question is what's the long-term guidance for China growth specifically over the next four to
five years? I thought in the past you said that would also be high single-digit percent, is that still
the case? And then second question on China, you guys have been involved in this fraud case for
a number of months now, wondering what assurances you can give us at this blows over and it
has no commercial ramifications for the company of obviously thinking back to when Glaxo ran
into a brick wall in China in 2014 because of the bribery issue. Thank you.
Operator
Thanks, Tim. We have `Leon Wang, Executive Vice President - International And China President, our EVP for the Emerging Markets in China online. Leon, do
you want to take those questions?
A - `Leon Wang, Executive Vice President - International And China President `
Yeah, thank you for the question. I think regarding China growth guidance, I think China is slowing
down, obviously in quarter four and and also intermittent too we are facing batch-7 VBP, but I think
our innovative portfolio still growing quite rapidly offsetting VBP tender loss and also some part
NRDL price cuts in exchange for volume, but the volume uptake really takes time. So it's a gradual
movement. So I think in the next five years, I think I still believe China will be at least a single-digit
growth skate and also China will be growing faster so putting together emerging market,
including China will be high single-digit growth in the next five years.
So we are quite confident and also China opportunities, still we have Imfinzi testing TOPAZ,
HIMALAYAS and also Tagrisso kind of haven't even been launched yet and being registered and
Lynparza having many indications and Enhertu and Daiichi Sankyo 1062 also being registered and
study ongoing. So I think China has been lagging a little bit behind in approval after US and
Europe. So I think these are also quite significant opportunities lying ahead of us. But still we need
to digest our biggest product like Pulmicort and also Seloken matured portfolio were doing very
well and going VBP, so this is something we have to digest in short term.
So, and I think the fraud case essentially is really an individual case and we have been working
closely with central government and National Medical Insurance Bureau already for six to eight
months, so we proactively take responsibility to claim internally and making sure we have all the
measures to make sure that we don't have a similar individual cases again. So to minimize the riskWe don't think this has any kind of similarity to the kinds of the GSK bribery in 2014. Yeah.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Leon. `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn at Redburn. Over to you Simon.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn `
Thank you for my questions. Just a quick follow-up there, Leon. I couldn't hear when you talked
about the single-digit growth for China whether you said low, medium or high before then, if I
missed that, that would be very helpful. And then just a quick question on the gross margin and
you hopefully said that the ex-COVID gross margin will be similar to 2021 but within that, there
are obviously some headwinds and tailwinds.
I wonder if you could just give us any idea of the relative magnitude of the factors affecting the
gross margin in '22 versus 2021. Thanks so much.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, Simon. So first question maybe to Leon and the second one to Aradhana.
A - `Leon Wang, Executive Vice President - International And China President `
Yeah. So, the China growth actually, we are gradually getting out of NRDL price cuts in exchange
for volume, so Tagrisso volume has been more than doubled I think and also Lynparza and Imfinzi
have been also capturing volume quite good, both even self-pay we have a new indication launch
one after another. So I think Oncology side gave us quite good confidence to grow, but at the
same time we are hit by VBP price cut in the tender loss.
So if you put all these things together but in the long run -- mid to long run, so we're having lots
of new products indication approval ahead of us. So we are still quite confident of the good part
of the China business growing, doing quite well. But at the mature products, we have been quite
successful in the past but are suffering for the next one or two years.
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Chief Financial Officer `
On the gross margin point, wo we expect the Group gross margins to improve relative to 2021.
The Group margins ex the COVID-19 gross margin, so the non-COVID pace, we expect to be
stable or sort of marginally improved versus our pre-COVID-19 going back to 2022. The COVID-
19 franchise gross margins are below company average as would be expected and there are
several factors that really impact our gross margins up and down when you compare them on an
year-by-year basis or an year-on-year comparison. So some of the things that are driving the
margins up or a full year of addition of Alexion products, specialty products in our mix and the mix
shift to more Oncology biologics, which have higher margin.
Some of the things that are driving the gross margins, lower China pricing that we discussed just
now, the COVID-19 franchise which I just said has lower gross margins given the non-for-profit
sales some of the US government and other contracts which are much discounted prices, etc.,
some of the partnered programs which as they're more successful while they're very profitable
on a percentage basis look lower and then some of the Tagrisso pricing dynamics that Dave
mentioned in his comments as well, for example, relating to Japan.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn `Great, thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Aradhana. Next question is from Andrew Baum at Citi. Andrew, over to you.
Q - `Vineet, Analyst, Citi `
Hi, this is `Vineet, Analyst, Citi here on behalf of Andrew. Just one quick question, I was just wondering if you
could make any comments on the tolerability of Lynparza-Zytiga combination in the PROPEL trial
given fragile elderly patients, and if you could comment on any adverse events.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
So I'm not sure I got the question in details I must say but Susan, maybe you got it. And if not may
be.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice-President, Oncology R&D `
I wasn't sure which trial, are you referring to the PROPEL trial?
Q - `Vineet, Analyst, Citi `
Yes.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice-President, Oncology R&D `
Okay, thank you. Yes, thanks for the question. So I think a couple of things, first of all PROPEL is an
important indication, we very much look forward to sharing more of the details at the ASCO GU
Conference next week. I think something to bear in mind is the tolerability of olaparib's
monotherapy we view as best in class and it's due to the sort of profile that you have in terms of
the spectrum of pop in terms of actually being inhibited by olaparib, some of the other molecules
have more off target inhibition.
So that gives a good basis for the combination with abiraterone and again, I can't give you the
specific details of all the adverse events because that will be presented in the presentation
actually, but I would just say that the overall profile is something that we're pleased with and
we're confident about the potential uptake of the combination medicines on the results of those
data and I'll be happy to answer any questions that you have following the presentation next
week.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Susan. Next question is `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America at Bank of America. Over to you Sachin.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America `
Hi, there. And just two questions. One is going back to the gross margin and thanks for giving
some of the moving parts after '22, will you just give us some color looking forward. The reason I
asked the question obviously got a lot of election accretion in '22 that is absorbing some of the
pressures. I'm just wondering how do you think about gross margin once that one-time benefit
goes from '22, from '23 and beyond.
And then secondly just on pipeline, Pascal, you made a very fleeting reference to the 2023
events. I know it's a way out and we've got a busy 2022, but I wanted to just highlight two orthree of the events that you're most excited about. There are a number of large reasons that I
just wonder if you could flag two or three that you're most interested in. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Sachin. Aradhana, do you want to take the first question and then maybe Susan and
Mene could comment on the respective pipelines.
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, so on the gross margins, we definitely have some benefit from the full year from Alexion,
but again, as I mentioned, there are several puts and takes and that just is one factor that is
contributing. Clearly, the commercial success of our pipeline of all the new launches that we have
and the mix as it shifts will really be a determinant of how our margin evolves over the next
several years.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice-President, Oncology R&D `
And in terms of the pipeline readouts that we're particularly looking forward to obviously, a
refocus on DESTINY-Breast04, which is expected to read out this quarter. And given the data that
we saw at DESTINY-Breast03 and the data that we've seen from the GA101 and the DAISY trial of
readout, we got good level of confidence going into the DESTINY-Breast04 data. Obviously, we
have to wait for the trial results. Another trial I draw your attention to and that was referred to the
EMERALD-1 trial, given the data that we've seen with the HIMALAYA, study looking at Imfinzi and in
combination with tremelimumab with the STRIDE regimen, we're now looking forward to
EMERALD-1 which is in a locoregional hepatocellular cancer in combination with tez and I remind
you that this three arms tez plus Imfinzi, tez plus Imfinzi plus bev versus tez plus placebo. So
we're looking forward to the results of that and given the prior data for those mechanisms of
action, I think we've got good confidence in that trial.
There are other Imfinzi trials that we're also reading out that we refer to obviously PACIFIC-2,
we've got the pool data and also the CALLA trial in cervical cancer that we're also looking forward
to.
A - `Menelas Pangalos, Executive Vice President - Research & Development BioPharmaceuticals `
And then from.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
I think Susan, Sachin was asking about 2023.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice-President, Oncology R&D `
Well, beyond '23, '22 into '23, there were many different trial results reading. Obviously, we'll see
progress with camizestrant with capivasertib. There is more readouts in terms of Lynparza
combinations with Imfinzi and we'll start to see the readouts from further trial with Enhertu with
DESTINY-Breast06 data reading out in '23 and plus the opportunity to see emerging data with
trastuzumab deruxtecan in multiple settings. So really there's a huge breadth of the portfolio that
will be there in '23.
A - `Menelas Pangalos, Executive Vice President - Research & Development BioPharmaceuticals `And then from a from a biopharma perspective, just because we did '22, I just mentioned
DELIVER obviously which is hugely important for the Farxiga franchise and that I think we have
increasing confidence with given how we're seeing the SGLT2s behave in the HFpEF population.
Beyond that, as we sort of talk about sort of end '22 into 23, we've got important Phase II
readouts for the DAPA combinations, our MPO molecules in HFpEF, our FLAP inhibitors in CKD
and we've also got COPD readouts for drugs like Fasenra and tezepelumab that I think is going
to hopefully pave the way for some of these biologics in COPD.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America `
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Mene. Next question is `James Gordon, Analyst, JPMorgan at JPMorgan. James, over to you.
Q - `James Gordon, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Hello, `James Gordon, Analyst, JPMorgan at JPMorgan. Thanks for taking the questions. First question, Enhertu in
DESTINY-Breast04. So as mentioned, data is imminent. When we get the headline results? Are
you going to tell us about efficacy for IHC1 versus IHC2 patients or would we have to wait for
something like ASCO, where we get some commentary on trends there and does it really matter,
is it all or nothing that study that is successful is not from a a labeling and commercial point of
view or is it important and what it looks like in the two different groups. That's the first question
please.
And the second one just on COVID-19, I heard the comment and the vaccine profitability is still
going to be pretty low, this mainly not really for profit in '22. And so when we think about, is it fair
to assume that the guidance bakes in something like 2 billion not very profitable vaccine sales
and about 1 billion of Evusheld and just in terms of what sort of boost you're getting from COVID
this year that the mine that will come in '23 based on what you're saying, it sounds like it going to
be something like a low single digit contribution at the bottom line this year that potentially
wouldn't recur next year, or could it be you're getting much more from COVID this year?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
So, thanks very much, James. Let me try the COVID question and maybe Susan could take your
first question. The COVID question, as you know, we don't typically guide by product, but we
have guided to the total sales declining. And then in some of additional inputs you could consider
is, as you said from vaccine, the majority of sales will be non-profit and that of course drives the
margin down and as we said, we have quite number of doses that are delivered to the US
government at a lower price in recognition for the funding of the development costs.
So that's why in 2022, the margin on those products is not as high, but as we move forward and
we get to a stage where we are in a commercial world for Vaxzevria and we sell Evusheld at
sustainable price then, of course, productivity will increase. Susan, do you want to (inaudible).
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice-President, Oncology R&D `
Yeah, so in terms of DESTINY-Breast04, just a reminder, the primary endpoint is progression-free
survival in the hormone receptor positive patients and study obviously includes stratification
factors including the IHC 2+, 1+ status. So in terms of the high level results, we would, as you
would expect, we're going to be reporting on the primary endpoint and the details will be comingI think in terms of the clinical relevance, based on the data that you've already seen from the
DAISY studies in GA101, the activity that we're seeing in the lower end of the IHC 1+ group is still
improved compared with the current estimates of standard of care chemotherapy. So we would
expect that we're going to see clinically relevant results across the patient population, but
obviously the aspect of can we improve upon the testing regimen and how it's differentiated by
that, we have to wait to see the results in detail and discuss those, and we'll continue to work on
improving (inaudible) techniques and the potential for improving patient selection using
computational pathology.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Susan. Next is `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley at Morgan Stanley.
Q - `Mark Purcell, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
I've got a couple in terms of DESTINY-Breast04, Susan, just going back to what you were saying,
if we see a strong hazard ratio, say 0.5 or below, what does this mean in terms of the platform
and differentiation versus other ADC platforms? I'm just thinking along the lines of just these
really validate the bystander effect and the loading of seven to eight toxin molecules for ADC
and thinking about moving into new areas, where are you with colorectal cancer where there is
obviously a significant opportunity you mentioned the DESTINY-CRC01 data in the prepared
remarks and then where are we, where the pattern tumor trials as well. I guess we start to get
data towards the end of this year, what are the sort of opportunities on a pan-tumor basis for
Enhertu and then secondly PACIFIC, things are getting fairly crowded in terms of the number of
trials that have been conducted in the adjuvant in the Stage III setting, you started two really
interesting studies, PACIFIC A Imfinzi plus (inaudible) and PACIFIC-9 Imfinzi with the COAST
partner assets. I just wondered if you could help us understand the sort of pushes and pulls here
and how, so I guess in the opportunity PACIFIC remains for the insufficiency family.
And then the last one, just for failure in China, could you help us in terms of our modeling on top
product sell and VBP-7 so the timing there that sort of modeling factors such as price and volume
we should consider in the retail pharmacy opportunity. It feels like it's the beginning in the end of
legacy headwinds in China, but this is obviously significant product you said, really help if you
could help us understand the dynamics there. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Mark. So I can say that Chris is not more successful than I was before asking for one
question. But that's actually good because you show a lot of interest in the pipeline. Susan, do
you want to cover the first questions and then Leon for the China?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice-President, Oncology R&D `
Yes, sure. So in terms of the design of the Enhertu molecule and also is relevant for that
patritumab deruxtecan. I think it's just worth reflecting that the industry has been putting
antibody-drug conjugate since the coming for over two decades and we now understand the
elements of the design of these complex system molecules that we need to do to optimize and
absolutely right that one important feature of that design is a linker that is stable in the peripheral
circulation, but cleavable in the tumor microenvironment and that helps to address the inevitable
heterogeneity of the surface receptor expression that you get across the tumor.
So that heterogeneity effect and the importance of it has been shown preclinically, it's been
shown in ex-vivo human tissue samples and I think it is underpinned by the data that has beenseen already with GA101 and the data in terms of the ability to deliver important efficacy, but
there were other elements that are also important. Obviously, the mechanism of action of the
warhead is different from the mechanisms that patients with this kind of cancer have been
exposed to previously and I think that's important. The number of molecules attached is also
important, as you point out, in terms of delivering the overall profile.
And then the final piece is that the selection of the right surface marker is not just highly
expressed and differentially expressed on tumor but also rapidly internalized is another feature
of the design that's important. So I think those elements of design do give us confidence about
the activity, not just in the DESTINY-Breast04 setting, but also as you indicate in other settings
across multiple tumor types where there is high HER2 expression and rapid internalization. The
exact selection of the patient population may differ by tumor type. And we need to work that
through but that's why we are looking forward to seeing the data from these pan-tumor studies
and as you say we'll see those evolve over the next 12 to 18 months.
Your next question was around the PACIFIC setting and again, I think there's a couple of
comments I would say at the beginning. First is that moving into the earlier stages of cancer, we
think there is a greater opportunity for maximizing the mechanism of action of immunotherapy
directed treatments to improve the proportion of patients that have the opportunity for long-
term survival and potential for cure, so Stage III and the neoadjuvant setting is very important, and
that's why we're investing in both PAC-8 and the PACIFIC-9 and we're pleased that we've dosed
the first patient recently on the PACIFIC-9 study combining Imfinzi with monalizumab in arm and
with oleclumab and CD73 Antibody in another arm based on the randomized Phase II COAST
data.
And so whilst, yes, I do see that the settings are having a lot of trial activity there. I think actually
the PACIFIC-9 setting is one where we got the only randomized Phase II data supporting that
Phase III selection and so we're confident about the ability to further improve on the great activity
we're seeing with Imfinzi in that setting. In terms of the overall opportunity, I don't know if Dave
wants to make a comment about the commercial opportunity in that setting.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President - Oncology Business `
Thanks Susan. Happy to do it. I mean I think that there is just a couple of important dimensions
here. I think first of them is that we continue to strive to bring the benefits of IO therapy in
unresectable Stage III to more patients and there is opportunity we hope through the promising
on a COAST data and PAC-8 and PAC-9 to be able to do that. Of course, also, there is a duration
of therapy benefit that if we get longer progression-free times and in fact we've seen really
impressive long-term survival and long-term PFS out of the PACIFIC study recently presented in
JCO and so that is certainly good for patients, but also is suggestive that potentially there is
duration opportunities there.
And then lastly, while imfinzi has a fairly long LoE and its past 2030, I certainly think moving
towards combinations that are going to have included within them longer protection periods and
exclusivity periods also allows us to be able to stay relevant within the Stage III space well
(Technical Difficulty) expected.
A - `Leon Wang, Executive Vice President - International And China President `
Okay (Multiple Speakers). So, yeah. So to the China question. I think the VBP starting from VBP 31,
Crestor in 2018. We are still keeping 70%, 80% of the business and most of the (inaudible) user
know the Crestor brand and are quite sticking to Crestor and the outflow to the pharmacy -- retailrelatively longer length of treatment already and is a well-established brand. So, it has a limited
the impact, still a decline, but after first year decline in 2019, it actually quite a stabilized in the
year 2020 and 2021.
So, Brilinta actually has a shorter length on treatment, only one year, so the drop of Brilinta is
quite a significant last year and Pulmicort is the hospitalized drug, half of them is hospitalized
drug, nebulized center and half of it is in the home nebulization, so self paid by the pediatric
family, so I think Pulmicort is somewhere in between, so the next batch 7 is Seloken (inaudible), so
Seloken is a CHD and high blood pressure drug, so actually reducing heart rates, and it is already
very cheap in China, so quite a big sales and a lot of patients use and a very, very long time in
China. So very strong brand, so we expect the brand like Seloken will drop less compared with
typical hospital-used drug. (inaudible) and Losec IV actually will have a quite a big drop after VBP
tender loss.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Leon. Next question is `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen at Cowen. Over to you, Steve.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen `
All right, thank you so much. In absolute terms, does 2022 EPS guidance imply something in the
range of 660 to 680 with all the moving parts absolute guidance I think would be helpful. And if
you prefer not to distillate to dollar terms, I'm just curious why? And then secondly, Dave, how did
the briefing documents for today's tie with FDA Adcom change your conviction in the outlook for
Tagrisso? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Dave, do you want take the second one and Aradhana take the first one?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President - Oncology Business `
Sure. Thanks, Steve. I've been fairly consistently wanting to raise the fact that China only studies
that don't have overall survival and that compare against an old standard of care bring with them
some regulatory risks and I think that we see that the clinical profile of Tagrisso is so well
established with overall survival with clear data on CNS protection and with the lifecycle plan that
continues to stay ahead of just front-line metastatic moving into the earlier settings with
ADAURA, LAURA and NeoADAURA.
So we still continue to stay vigilant on the outlook but I do think that certainly the ODAC from
today -- the briefing document for the ODAC gives me more confidence that there is regulatory
hurdles in front of Tagrisso competition that seeking to come in from some of the competitors
that we've seen. It may not be a perfect analog because the PDX space is different than a
targeted therapy space but my sentiment has improved certainly, Steve, and we'll see how the
ODAC though goes later today.
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Chief Financial Officer `
I think on your question, Steve, regarding guiding to particular dollar value for EPS versus a
percentage growth rate, I think we've guided to percentage growth rate on revenue, as well as
on EPS, but we do provide, as we have done today, a lot of detail around the moving parts. There
are obviously some things which we don't know which will evolve during the year, and we do a lot
of planning and scenario planning and so forth around that, there is also the foreign exchangemovement and so forth. But hopefully, we've provided you enough detail to be able to get to
that guidance.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen `
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Aradhana and Steve, I mean you calculated yourself the EPS on the percentages. So
they are all at the same, but I think it's important to remember those growth rate RTR and
sometimes when we give numbers, people don't remember those RTR, so the percentages
(inaudible).
Next question is `Richard Parkes, Analyst, BNP at BNP.
Q - `Richard Parkes, Analyst, BNP `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. Firstly, just a clarification on the COVID profitability. Is it fair to
assume that that will be dilutive to EBIT margins this year as well as gross margin? So that's first
clarification, and then just a quick question on the operational efficiency program and margin
ambition, which I think in factors will very much appreciate. So, thanks for that.
Before that $1.2 billion drops to the bottom line, it implies about 280 basis points of margin
improvement, now I realize you might look to reinvest some of that, but you're also likely to see
continued operating leverage improvements going forward. So, and we'll see the effect of
dilutive effect of COVID revenues wash out over time. So, it makes the lower end of your mid to
high 30s margin ambition look conservative.
So I just wondered if you could talk through the pushes and pulls to that and how you think about
balancing investment for the long-term versus like the margin drop through. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Richard. Aradhana, do you want to take both of those?
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. Thank you, Richard. So on the COVID profitability, as I mentioned, the gross margins for
COVID or for the COVID franchise, which is both the vaccine and the antibody will be below the
the corporate gross margins. In terms of operating profit as you know, we operate the whole
company as sort of one business and it's difficult to sort of get down to every element and we
are also investing behind the COVID business. We do have, as you can imagine R&D
commitments, long-term studies, pharmacovigilance, so there will also be costs associated with
the COVID medicines.
On your second point relating to the restructuring, so what we mentioned is that we now expect,
we essentially took the opportunity that we have as a result of integrating the Alexion business
and said let's look at AstraZeneca group as a whole and other areas and opportunities that we
might have at this time and that includes everything from sort of portfolio prioritization to our
manufacturing network optimization to supply contract and distribution contract and insourcing
certain activities, etc., what we've said is, there'll be $1.2 billion savings before reinvestment and
our guidance relating to or our ambition relating to sort of, I wouldn't say guidance, our ambition
relating to the mid to high 30% margins, I would say this is sort of a step to getting there. It's partof our journey towards operating our operating margins, and with that maybe we can go back to
Pascal.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Aradhana. Next question is `Emmanuel Papadakis, Analyst, Deutsche Bank. Go ahead Emmanuel.
Q - `Emmanuel Papadakis, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you for taking the question, Emmanuel from Deutsche. Perhaps I'll kick off with one on
Enhertu, more of a commercial question just in terms of the expectations for the DESTINY-
Breast03 launched this year. what speed of share gains or conversion from the incumbent
(inaudible) second line should we anticipate or are you hoping to achieve, and then just a quick
clarification, you still not yet initiated an adjuvant study, should we assume that you're not
planning to take Enhertu forward into the adjuvant setting? And then the second question was
around the Alexion assets, the Ultomiris conversion seems to stalled somewhat you alluded to
and I think related to headwinds for the AGUS indication in particular.
But perhaps you could just give us an update on where we are in terms of conversion from Soliris
into approved indications, and then on Soliris where, can you provide some helpful numbers
around uptake in MGD, any patient numbers you can give us, any sense of early impact from FcRn
approvals in that setting would be helpful as well. Thank you.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer Alexion `
Marc, do you want to, thanks Emmanuel -- Marc, do you want to take Soliris and Ultomiris question
and maybe that could cover the Enhertu one. Yeah, let me -- thank you for the question. And let
me just cover the issue of a conversion from Soliris to Ultomiris. I think where we are today is we
are in the first phase of the conversion from Soliris to Ultomiris and I must say that this has gone
very well. In PNH, the conversion is high, above 70%, we past that bar some time ago. It is not as
high in atypical HUS and I explained earlier on in my prepared remarks that it was due to the type
of settings where often the products, the C5 inhibitor is administered, the more you go in
emergency setting and in particular during COVID, COVID impact, the most Soliris, which is better
known and also a faster acting treatment. Therefore, these are slowed down, the conversion
from Soliris to Ultomiris in atypical HUS. Now, we are going to enter now in second phase of
conversion which is going to be linked to the approval of Ultomiris in neurological indication. First
of all, (inaudible), which has already been submitted in US, Europe and Japan. So, this is going to
be another engine of growth for Ultomiris, but also the continuing geographic expansion of
Ultomiris in the sort of a legacy indication, not the whole world, today is reimbursing for Ultomiris
in this legacy indication. So you will have a second phase of conversion, but I think the first phase
has been successful and is well, is nearly completed for PNH, but not yet for atypical HUS. And
then talking about the slowdown of the Ultomiris, let you remind in the first quarter, Ultomiris has
grown by 26%. So this is still a very -- a brand that is growing very fast, and that is before Ultomiris
receives any indication in neurology, which is a fast growing category. So I think Ultomiris is doing -
- is growing quite fast.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Marc.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President - Oncology Business `So Emmanuel I expect in short, the uptake to be rapid based on DB03 and there's three reasons
for that. I think the first one is that we have seen really truly remarkable efficacy data from that
study. And I think that it compares very favorably to an active standard of care which is Kadcyla. I
think secondly the testimony to how the clinicians and thought leaders are receiving that is in the
fact that NCCN and ESMO guidelines have both been updated to reflect DB03 as a standard of
care prior to the approvals in both the US and Europe, respectively.
And I think that the commercial execution that the Alliance teams between DS and AstraZeneca
have done within the third line setting to establish as the top third-line agent of choice, even in
the face of competition is further testimony, so my outlook is quite positive on 03 and the speed
with which we can drive up it. Just maybe the last thing, Pascal, quickly on early DESTINY-Breast11
is in the clinical trial appendix that is a study in high-risk HER2 positives early non-metastatic breast
cancer, there certainly is lifecycle planning beyond that could follow, but we do already have the
study listed in the CTA on that.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Dave. `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs. Keyur, go ahead.
Q - `Keyur Parekh, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you, Pascal. One for you and one clarification from Leon. Pascal, just love your thoughts on
how do you see the pricing dynamics kind of not just for AstraZeneca but more broadly and the
reason I'm asking, that is, I think in response to the ODAC documents kind of Lilly's come out and
said they were thinking of pricing depth kind of PD1 40% lower than the current kind of pricing for
similar drugs.
So just as we think more broadly over the next two, three, four years, how confident are you of
current oncology drug pricing? And then separately, Leon, kind of, I guess you mentioned earlier
that you see this kind of shift from the older product dynamics in China to the newer products
that should drive longer term growth, but you also mentioned that you see this brand continuing
over the next year or two. So perhaps I could push you and say is 2023 expected to be a growth
year for your China business or should we expect '23 to be a low decline here as well? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Keyur. So I have to say we give our guidance for '23 in January or February '23, so I'll
meet you then. Leon, do you want to talk about China and then I'll go up pricing?
A - `Leon Wang, Executive Vice President - International And China President `
Yeah, I think we are quite focused on China challenges and external environment and of course,
AstraZeneca has been quite a successful and is the first time we passed the $6 billion threshold
in China, so we have been growing well in the past, but then we carry also many mature
products, has been doing so well. So like Pulmicort, Seloken, Crestor, Brilinta, it's a long list of
names. So this long list we'll get going to VBP more or less this year or late this year. So 2023 we
see less such kind of impact. So, and in 2023, we have the more new products approval like
Enhertu and a lot of the new indication lifecycle extension -- lifecycle new indication for
established new products.
So I think even from Oncology, we are registering our treatment antibody in this year and Farxiga
CKD this year as well. So, launching (inaudible) and Fasenra and the PT009, a pro version of
Symbicort and Saphnelo. So I think all these new products will ultimately help our launch andAstraZeneca in China is a very, very good commercial operation machine to really successfully
shape the market and launch new products, not only because of the big city, but also in multiple
channel and in the remote area.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Leon. On the pricing, maybe a quick specific comment and more general one. I'm not
sure that I would -- and I'm not sure that declining the price (inaudible) good strategy, I mean the
FDA's mandate is to approve drugs that are effective and safe, not get dragged into a pricing
discussion, so I'm not sure it is really the right approach quite frankly. And as it relates to Chinese
data, there are two issues that well I've been well detailed. One is of course you saw data from a
single country incentives that are not necessarily well known in the US and that of course creates
some questions.
But the most important one is the lack of diversity of data in different populations. There has
been a lot of work done by pharmaceutical companies and a lot of request and correct request
about community to provide data in diverse population, populations in particular in the US, so it
would be quite, I want to call, and in fact now appropriate to approve a product based on pure
Chinese data and all the data for many other countries, but by the way, if it is coming from a
single type of populations.
And I think the industry has to work to provide diversity of data in diverse population, so I think
that it makes it difficult really for FDA to approve these types of products, but we'll have to see
what ODAC decides, and FDA of course ultimately is the decision maker and in terms of pricing
in general or whether it's oncology or beyond, I continue to believe that but products that are
differentiated would attract good pricing, good reimbursement, but there will be price pressures
of course, and we experience this today including in Oncology. I mean, they've raised pressures
on Calquence and Lynparza, etc.
So we do have price pressures, but overall I think we will continue to be able to achieve
reasonable prices in the US and in fact in Europe, the situation is improving. The innovation is well
accepted and prices in Europe are slightly lower, so we have to see, I mean of course (inaudible)
gets approved with a slimmed down version that focuses on lower pricing, so that's a risk for the
entire industry, but for the time being, I think it's fair to assume that pricing will remain stable and
Dave, I don't know if you want to add anything to this.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President - Oncology Business `
I mean I think the main thing that I would add is that certainly Part D and negotiation are elements
that in past calls we've acknowledged just going to create some gross to net pressures in the
future. We certainly think about that in our own long-term planning. And I just would reiterate,
Pascal, what you had said, which is at the same time differentiated medicines moving into areas
of high unmet need, we continue to believe we're going to have an opportunity to get good
value and I do think that that's reflected in even some of the challenging policies that we see
within the US, so US still remains a good place for value, certainly on a relative basis to the rest of
the globe.
And I think relative to today, we expect some pressures but I think it will still stay an important
market for us, of course.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Dave. `Jo Walton, Analyst, Credit Suisse. Jo, go ahead.Q - `Jo Walton, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Thank you. Just a quick R&D and an SG&A one. So the, it looks like the FcRn that you've got with
Syntimmune has been dropped, just checking that's just an individual product issue and it's not
something to do with the platform that you acquired with Syntimmune and you still expect to
have an FcRn program going forward?
And my second question is one on marketing. So in 2021, there was obviously a limit to what you
could do with COVID. I'm just wondering how much you would expect your marketing expenses
to bounce back in '22 and '23 and how much you've been able to change how things are done
and are able to keep that cost control at the SG&A level as tight as you have historically.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Jo. Marc, do you want to cover the first one and Aradhana would be the second one?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer Alexion `
Yes. Jo, thank you very much for the question. So I confirm that we have suspended the
development of the FcRn that we had the license in form of Syntimmune due to the reasons,
which are in our view specific to the molecule.
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Chief Financial Officer `
On your question relating to the operating expenses, which is our total OpEx R&D and SG&A, we
expect to have low to mid-single -- low to mid-teens increase in 2022; however, your point is
absolutely well taken that we have evolved some of our marketing methods in terms of hybrid
ways of approaching HCPs and so forth and we're trying to make sure that we keep and enhance
some of those learnings to digital ways of working and marketing as we go forward.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Aradhana. So we have done, so we take a few more questions but if you can really try to
limit yourself to one question. `Michael Leuchten, Analyst, UBS. Michael, go ahead.
Q - `Michael Leuchten, Analyst, UBS `
Thanks, Pascal. I'll do one, just going back to Farxiga in China, it's one situation where you are on
the NRDL but other products of the same mechanism are in VBP, your comment about the re-
listing on NRDL, did that come with abnormally high price concession where you sort of had quasi
match to VBP process or were you able to retain a high pricing level? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Michael. Leon, do you want cover this one?
A - `Leon Wang, Executive Vice President - International And China President `
Yeah, I think Farxiga, we renegotiated NRDL entry last year and we achieved quite a reasonable
price level for continued contract and right now, Farxiga, I think is number one product in diabetes
market and I think the momentum is continued to be strong and it would get heart failure
indication last year and also we'll get CKD indication this year. So I think a lot of good catalyst
coming in the next one or two years. I think next year, we will be launching (inaudible) as well to
really continue beyond this success -- initial success. Thanks, Leon. `Luisa Hector, Analyst, Berenberg Capital Markets. Luisa, over to you.Q - `Luisa Hector, Analyst, Berenberg Capital Markets `
Question. So it's really for the medium term outlook, but Pascal, your team has done a really
excellent job selling and launched and built to drive the topline for the decade. Here on track to
double-digit sales growth and as said, the LoE profile is benign through to the end of the decade.
But there is a shift toward external assets that brings profit shares and pay-away and today
you're flagging incremental cost savings opportunities. So really, my question is around how
comfortable you are in the profit growth and the cash generation from that strong double-digit
line as we look to the medium term and whether simply the dividend growth is the signal to
watch for the level of confidence. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Aradhana, do you want to cover this one? I mean I think, maybe just say a few words that you
could add, but we have quite a number of products that operating on rolls that are 100% owned
by us, and we have of course a mixture of those products and partner products. But overall, we
are very confident that we can continue to do well on our goals and we are working on this
operating margin improvement that we've talked about a few times. So, I'm not sure exactly, but
what to tell you, we are quite confident with the environment as we know it today of course, since
could change, but what we know today, we're confident in our forecast. Aradhana, anything else?
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I think as we talked about sort of the beyond 2025 timeframe, I think we have a really
exciting pipeline. We have a lot of upsides in the pipeline and not a lot of LoE sort of risk in that
timeframe, and I think there is more opportunity for growth and again, just to reemphasize, our
focus will always be on driving growth and we're going to balance that with disciplined sort of
operational improvements.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Aradhana. `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies. Over to you Peter.
Q - `Peter Welford, Analyst, Jefferies `
Hi, thanks so much for squeezing me in. A question please on the spend you were very helpful
with R&D providing 20% sales going forward. I'm just wondering on SG&A and beyond this year,
could you help sort of frame for us, how we should think about the SG&A trend, I appreciate you
said you could get efficiencies that will be lower than the top line, but particularly when we think
about '23, '24, what are the things we should think about is pushes and pulls to consider the sort
of rate of SG&A growth, this should be a sensible rate going forward given your commentary on
margins. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I mean, we've said that actually, Peter, that R&D will remain in the low 20s, 20%, 21% of our
revenue, and basically we will deliver this improvement of operating margins by reducing SG&A
as a percentage of sales to become more in line with our peers and the way we're going to do
this is for efficiency improvements, but also redeployment of resources from products that are
well established and don't require as much promotion to redeploying these two new products.
I think often people forget that when they look at SG&A being high, the focus that we've
launched so many products and we expanded quite a larger rapidly in China, but of coursecomes a time when our portfolio mix changes. I mean, we have been promoting a portfolio of
products that were mostly new products to rebuild the company and now we're going to get to a
portfolio that is more balanced if you want between established and new products, so we will be
-- we have a greater ability to shift SG&A resources that are on portfolio.
Next one is `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities `
Great, thanks. So just actually two quick ones. First Pascal, we heard a lot of commentary from
Amgen as it relates to test fire in the opportunity there. Just hoping you could kind of frame the
opportunity, there were two things that were commented as well outside or one other thing
comments, it was some competition in the anti-IL5 category on price that was highlighted by
Glaxo and then separately as you took a really differentiated approach in the PD1 category, it
created a multi-billion dollar durable opportunity, even though some viewed Astra as being a little
late to the game, although you guys were kind of aligned with the rest of the folks in category.
The obesity space is one that I think has been characterized by others as having PD1 potential,
you guys have Farxiga, you're taking up what I would say is a higher risk approach with MPO and
we know that there are other oral opportunities to combine with (inaudible) out there. Just
wondering how AstraZeneca is thinking about the obesity space and the opportunity for
(inaudible) in cardiovascular disease? Thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Seamus. Dave, I hope you could cover the despite question and Mene has a second one.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President - Oncology Business `
Absolutely. Thank you so much for the question. First of all, I think I cannot speak on behalf of
Amgen as well, but we are very excited about the opportunity with the ASPIRE. It's a completely
new and unique mode of action. And as you know, in fact, irrespective of the years in the fill level,
yes, we will compete, also in the hires in the fields because exacerbation reduction is substantial,
but I think there is a high unmet medical need in the low or middle eosinophil population, roughly
50% to 60% of the total patient population in severe asthma is in this mid-to-low level
eosinophils.
So that's clearly our level of confidence and focus equally and people are commenting on that.
Yes, we are seeing a little bit of additional pricing pressure in the space that's normal in part in
the self-injection, but at the moment is absolutely manageable and we don't expect a massive
shifts in the foreseeable future.
A - `Menelas Pangalos, Executive Vice President - Research & Development BioPharmaceuticals `
Yeah, with regards to obesity, I think our approach in CVRM has really been to look at co-
morbidities and co-morbidities associated with metabolic disease, renal disease, heart failure,
cardiovascular disease and obviously obesity is one of those components, so the combinations
that we have in play obviously are interesting but we have got, some of that haven't into the clinic
get, as you know there's oral GLP ones that are in development and there's also some of the
sort of in the pre-clinical phase that we're interested in. We have a number of other programs
across NASH and as you know, we also have a partnership with Regeneron (inaudible) GPR75
which actually has got a genetic validation around obesity.And we also have a long-acting Amylin program, what I would say about obesity is, as you know,
it's a very challenging area in terms of the benefit-risk. People have been burned historically in a
big way around this area. So I think we really need to go off the subsets of obesity where we can
really show and demonstrate the fulfillment of an unmet medical need in a patient population
that really needs the therapy. So that's the approach that we're taking.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Mene. We would take one last question. `Victor, Analyst [ph], do you want to go ahead?
Q - `Victor, Analyst `
Yes, sure. Thank you for taking my question. So in China, on the health insurance fraud case, could
you perhaps indicate the amount that these individuals have defrauded from reimbursement
payments just to get a feel for the extent of this? And secondly, you said that on a CAGR level,
you see double-digit growth until 2025, I guess your base is 2021 and then consensus looks just a
little bit shy of double-digit growth. Where do you see consensus of being a bit more
conservative compared to your estimates for future growth? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks `Victor, Analyst. Leon, do you want to cover this, I mean the amount of money involved is extremely
small. Leon, over to you two questions.
A - `Leon Wang, Executive Vice President - International And China President `
Yeah, I think the first question, I think the product is -- the amount is very, very small I think and
also the number of people involved these also very limited, and I think is really one indication
approved for reimbursement, and the other indication is not, so some patients are asking, and
also, I think it's very, very small, I think minimal. All right? So that's what it is. So we don't know
because it's still, investigation is ongoing. But as far as we know, the amount is very, very small. So
the second question, is it about the China growth?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
I think (Multiple Speakers).
A - `Leon Wang, Executive Vice President - International And China President `
Okay. So I think, like Pascal said we have been investing in China in the past quite a many years.
So that's why we have been growing quite consistently, but the tightness with this VBP policy
already we are facing number seven batch of VBP and NRDL negotiation also many rounds now
and the quite a lot of price cuts on our new products and quite many, tender loss for more
mature products.
So there is a pretty increase in China, so I think AstraZeneca investment in the past many is
actually successfully offset by new product launches and the new indications, clinical trial
participation of China into global studies and a simultaneous approval globally and locally, lots of
products in China actually approved even the Head of Global and/or have a quite close gap. So,
but we still need to make efforts approving new products accelerating our new products very
fast.
So in the next five years, the CAGR actually for China is single-digit growth, and also China
actually we need to pay more attention, is actually achieving historical a good double-digitgrowth, especially in quarter four. So actually also China market has a lot of unmet medical needs.
So in the next five years, they will grow more double-digit growth and then putting together, so
also trying to offset the China slower growth, so we are more like a high single-digit growth in the
next five years.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Leon. And `Victor, Analyst just to be clear, this issue in China is something of the past, dates back
many months because there was a time when the product was on the reimbursable T790M
mutation, but today it's reimbursed for EGFR first line and of course when it was only T790M
mutations, there was in some cases an incentive to try to equate by patients to where EGFR first
line, so they could benefit, but it was very small and very limited to a handful of medical
representatives and (inaudible). I may have misunderstood your question about the goals, it may
have been total company, so if I did, do you mind repeating your question quickly so we can
address it.
Q - `Victor, Analyst `
Yeah, yeah, sorry. Yeah, it was on the total revenue growth for AstraZeneca. So you said that
there is a double-digit growth until 2025 when you look at CAGR growth and when I calculate it
out that just looked at a little bit shy of double-digit growth if I use the base year 2021. So I just
wonder if there is anywhere where consensus is a bit more conservative than your estimates for
future growth.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I can only repeat that our forecast and our ambition is to grow by low-double digit as a
CAGR until 2025 starting in '21. So I can't comment on the consensus. I can only repeat what we
have guided to and we have quite a number as we talked about today, quite a number of new
indications and new products to launch that we definitely support this these goals, but that
actually gives me a good link into maybe bringing this meeting to a close. First of all, thanking you
for your interest and all your great questions and secondly just re-reminding everybody how
much we have dedicated really from a pipeline viewpoint last year and all this positive Phase III
clinical trials we have done in two launches this year and next year and there is more to come as
we've talked about.
So there is enormous achievement in the last year that will carry us all the way through 2025 and
now we are working on post '25. We've told you, we have limited patent exposure and patent
expiry exposure for both pipeline and we'll continue looking at what can we add, so not only we
drive an improvement in our operating margin over the next two, three, four years, but also
importantly we continue to be a high-growth company post 2025. This is really our ambition. So
with this, thank you so much and I wish you good rest of the day.