Y 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Andy Barnett, Head, Investor Relations `
Well, a warm welcome everybody, to AstraZeneca's Fourth Quarter and Full Year '23 Results
Presentation Conference Call and Webcast for Investors and Analysts. I'm `Andy Barnett, Head, Investor Relations, Head of
Investor Relations. And before I hand over to Pascal and members of the Executive team, I'd like
to cover some important housekeeping points.
Firstly, as I'm probably sure you realize, all the materials are already on our website for your
review. Here is our forward-looking statement, which I'd encourage you to take the time to read.
We'll be making comments on our performance using Constant Exchange Rates or CER, core
financial numbers, and other non-GAAP measures. And non-GAAP-to-GAAP reconciliation is
contained within the results announcement that you all have seen. All numbers quoted are in
millions of U.S. dollars, unless otherwise stated.
This slide shows the agenda for today's call. Following our prepared remarks, we'll open the line
for questions. Of course, if you want to raise -- ask a question in the room, raise your hands.
There'll be roving mics. For those online, please use the Zoom function to raise your hand. As
usual, we'll try and get to as many questions as we can through the course of the call. But if you
limit the number of questions you ask at once, it will give others a fair chance to participate.
And with that, Pascal, I'm going to hand over to you.`Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Andy. Good morning, everybody, and welcome to this London Stock Exchange, where
we're celebrating our 25th anniversary as a company, merging Astra from Sweden, and Zeneca
from the UK quite a number of years ago. But I want to start my talk with this slide.
And this slide is important because I want to recognize or celebrate the fact that not only it's our
25th anniversary, but importantly, we actually did achieve the goal we set ourselves 10 years ago
to reach $45 billion sales in 2023.
And in fact, I could argue we overachieved it, because at the current exchange rates, our $45
billion goal probably is closer to $40 billion. And I don't want to say that just to kind of pat
ourselves on the back, even though I'd like to do this and celebrate our team's effort. But I want
to mention it because we always did this with our eyes on the long-term and growth.
And we're embarking on another 10 year cycle. And we have announced an R&D Day, because
we want to refresh our strategy and show you what we're planning to do over the next 10 years.
But we got this $45 billion through ups and downs, and I have to say often a lot of skepticism, but
always with our eye on the long-term growth rate. And that's what we're going to do.
We believe we can grow, and we believe over the next 10 years we will deliver a superior growth.
And that's, of course, going to drive our profitability as a result of it. But our growth and
sustainable strong growth is really what we're after.
And we've done this all following the science. And again, we're embarking on a new cycle and
we're investing in new science that will shape the future of medicine, and shape the future of this
company and we can talk more about this.
We have achieved this whole disciplined investment, even though we often have extensive
debates inside the company, and right now it's challenging everybody to be even more
disciplined in terms of our investment, but we've constantly focused our investment on where we
can deliver the most growth, and also continuously focusing on Oncology, Cardiovascular
Disease, Respiratory Disease more recently, increasing our investment, and keeping our eye on
Immune Diseases, and finally Rare Diseases.
And the company we have today, and the team we have today is very different from what it was
10 years ago, and it's really rewarding to see the progress we've made and the strengths we
have developed in our portfolio, but also in the strengths of the talent in the company. The way
we operate in Oncology today, and same in the other TAs is very, very different. And it gives me
confidence we can actually deliver another cycle of very strong growth over the next 10 years.
So importantly, we delivered our upgraded guidance for the year, 15% growth excluding COVID.
We had guided to increasing to low teens. So, 15% is slightly better.
On the EPS front, we grew by 15%, which is also slightly better than upgraded guidance for the
year. And in the quarter four, we saw an opportunity, because we had a tax benefit. We saw an
opportunity to invest to drive further growth and stronger growth next year and the years after,
as we're launching new products and expanding footprint.
You saw that the emerging markets out of China grew by 35%. China itself is rebounding and
growing again. So, China is back again on the growth trajectory, and this year should be another
good year.We've been improving our operating margin. You see a drop in '21, but that was a bit of an
artifact, because it's driven by the very large COVID sales we experienced, and of course, those
were at no profit. So it dilutes our operating margin.
But essentially you can see our continuous progress, and I wanted to say today that we're
committed to our goals of mid-30s, by -- in the mid-term, and of course, long-term we'll be
depending on our growth opportunities and our pipeline in particular.
So we're doing three things. As I've said before, we're driving, we're focusing on today. We're
driving growth, top line growth, and operating margin. So we deliver our financial goals. And that
now is 2024 really.
We're building the pipeline -- continuously building the pipeline, so that we drive growth to more,
which is 2025 to 2030. And we're investing in new technologies and new products to shape the
future of medicine and drive long-term growth. And what I call long-term growth is what I often
refer to as being the day after tomorrow, and it's '28, '29 and beyond. Ultimately, our goal is to
remain a high-growth company for the next period of time, 10 years and beyond.
You can see here that our revenue is spread across a variety of therapy areas, but Oncology, as
you know very well, Biopharma, as you know very well, and Rare Disease. And we had growth
across all therapy areas. Oncology 21%, CVRM 18%, R&I 10%, of course V&I declined because we
had a massive decline in COVID sales. And Rare Disease grew by 12%, which is more than most
people expected, and actually more than we ourselves expected.
If you remember, we guided that we could grow by high single digit this Rare Disease business,
but in fact, we're delivering low double-digit growth rate. And Marc will talk more about this.
All geographies did very well, 14% in the U.S., 20% in the emerging market, which is 35% ex-
China, and 8% in China. And you can see here the growing importance of the emerging markets
outside of China. In Europe, we grew by 17%. And established rest of the world, 8%. Japan is
starting to be impacted by the loss of exclusivity of Nexium, of course. But still, 8% growth is a
pretty nice number there. So again, well-diversified growth across geographies and across our
disease areas.
So, tomorrow. So this is the today, and tomorrow is really the pipeline, during the pipeline. We
guided earlier this year that we had a goal of 30 new Phase III, we've achieved 27. We're short by
three, that are little bit delayed and starting in the early '24 instead of '23, but '27 is a very large
number of Phase III starts.
Importantly, 10 of those have a potential to be blockbusters, either new products or new
indications. Blockbuster, of course, being more than a $1 billion. So we have 10 of these Phase III
trials, that if they are successful, will deliver a $1 billion sales or more each.
We also achieved '24 regulatory market -- regulatory approval across major markets, and finally,
we got approval for four new medicines, and we're on track to deliver 15 new molecular entities
launched by 2030.
And as you can see on this slide, those approvals, those new medicines range from Biopharma
with Airsupra to Oncology with Truqap. Again, back to Biopharm with Wainua and Eplontersen;
and also Rare Diseases, Alexion with danicopan, Voydeya approval in PNH. So, across the whole
pipeline, we're launching new medicines.And finally, what I call the day after tomorrow, is really this new technology, those new platforms.
And so what are we trying to do here? First of all, we have, we believe a tremendous opportunity
to leverage our growing pipeline of antibody drug conjugates with our IO bispecifics.
So, in the ADC space, we started with this collaboration with Daiichi Sankyo that you know very
well. We've now built our own internal portfolio of ADCs. We have six ADCs that are totally owned
by AstraZeneca with unique targets and unique warheads. And there's more to come. We can
talk about it later, but we're working on multiple targets and warheads.
And finally, importantly, we can combine those with our bispecifics. And we have three of those,
two that are more advanced and are very exciting products. And we believe in Oncology, this
ADC combination with IO can totally transform the way cancer is treated and position us as one
of the few companies that has the potential leverage these combinations.
We work on cell therapy, because we believe cell therapy will be an important technology for the
future. Today, those are mostly CAR-T's and Hematology. We want to take this into solid tumors.
We want to take this into allogenic, off-the-shelf cell therapy. And we also want to take this into
Immune Diseases. And we've started working on this.
So what we have been doing is leveraging our own internal effort, and our own internal
technologies, and combining this with putting together a series of technologies and platforms
that has really the potential for us not to deliver what I was just talking about, which is moving into
solid tumors, moving into Allogenic cell therapy, and moving into Immune Diseases, and we now
have a complete set of what we need.
Now, it's a question of integration and execution, but we have the technology that are required to
achieve what our long-term goal is in cell therapy, and you've got listed here Neogene, Quell,
Cellectis, Gracell, and all of those together will enable us to build what we want to do in
Oncology and Biopharm.
Another technology that we believe will shape the long-term is T-cell engagers, and again, we've
done that with our own internal effort and complemented with BD. The BD we do is not a random
BD, it's always with a view to build a strong presence in some of the technologies we've
identified. And we've done this with DC. We're doing it with cell therapy. We're doing it with T-cell
engagers. And finally, we'll do it in gene therapy, with a focus on Rare Diseases.
If you are in Rare Diseases, you'll really have to have a gene therapy approach, complementing
your portfolio. And of course, here you know well, the Pfizer gene therapy portfolio acquisition
and complemented with the Cellectis collaboration.
So this is really what we believe is going to drive a little bit our mid-term growth with Daiichi
Sankyo collaboration in some of the ADCs, but mostly looking at driving growth, '28, '29 and
beyond. So, we can deliver growth today, tomorrow and the day after.
So with this, I'll hand over to Aradhana, who's going to take you through the financials.
Over to you.
`Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you. Thank you, Pascal. As usual, I will start with our reported P&L. As Pascal mentioned in
his opening comments, total revenue increased 6% in 2023, which was at the top end of our
updated guidance range.Product sales increased by 4%, despite a decline of $3.8 billion in COVID-19 product sales in the
year. Alliance revenue increased by 89%, driven by higher Enhertu sales in regions where Daiichi
Sankyo books product sales.
Turning to the core P&L, our core product sales -- Sorry. Our core product sales growth margins
increased by 2 percentage points to 81.7%. This step-up in gross margin was driven by lower
COVID-19 revenues in 2023.
In 2024, we anticipate a slightly lower product sales gross margin percentage, driven by higher
sales in emerging markets, increased Beyfortus product supply, higher production costs in certain
facilities, as well as higher product sales for partnered products and regions, where we book
sales and then pay out a profit share to our partners through cost of sales.
Core operating costs increased by 9% in 2023. R&D costs increased by 9%, driven by 27 new
Phase III starts in last year, including multiple trials of our PD-1 CTLA-4 bispecific volrustomig, and
our oral SERD camizestrant.
R&D costs as a percentage of total revenue was 22% in line with our ambition. As expected, Core
SG&A stepped up in the fourth quarter, relative to the third quarter in 2023.
We increased our investment in new launches behind Wainua, Truqap, and Airsupra and continue
to invest behind indication expansions such as Farxiga and CKD and heart failure, and Imfinzi
across tumor types.
Our full year core tax rate of 17% came in slightly below our guidance. The fourth quarter tax rate,
benefited from an adjustment to deferred taxes, following an intra-group purchase of certain
intellectual property, offset by unfavorable tax ruling in certain jurisdictions. Overall, our P&L
allowed us to increase investments in both R&D and SG&A in the fourth quarter. Core EPS for the
full year 2023 was $7.26, a growth of 15% versus the prior year.
As Pascal stated earlier, we have made good progress on both top and bottom line delivery in
recent years, and we remain on track to deliver both industry-leading growth and improve
operating margin to the mid-30s and the mid-term, balanced by the need for continued
investment to drive top-line growth in both the near-term and mid-term and long-term.
Today, we're pleased to announce our 2024 full-year guidance. We anticipate our total revenue
of low double digits to low teens percentage increase, and our core EPS of low double digits to
low teen percentage increase as well.
Collaboration revenue is expected to increase substantially, driven by success-based milestones
and certain anticipated transactions. Other operating income, on the other hand, is anticipated to
decrease substantially.
Recall that in 2023, it included a one-off gain of around $700 million, related to the renegotiated
Beyfortus agreement, and another $240 million related to the sale of Pulmicort in the U.S.
If FX rates for February to December were to remain at average rate seen in 2024 January, we
anticipate a low single-digit adverse FX impact on both revenue and Core EPS in 2024.
Cash flow from operating activities increased by $537 million in 2023. We continue to focus on
improving our cash conversion, and have already made significant progress in this area. Deal
payments amounted to approximately $4 billion, of which nearly half related to past business
development payments, including milestone payments to Daiichi Sankyo. For this year, we againCapEx in 2023 was around $1.4 billion. In 2024, we anticipate a significant step up in CapEx,
potentially in the 50% range, driven by investments in new manufacturing capabilities such as API,
inhaled products, and cell therapy.
Our net debt at the end of 2023 was $22.5 billion, and given very recent BD transactions totaling
about $2 billion, we anticipate this to remain at about the same level in 2024.
With this in mind, our finance expense is expected to increase, given the current interest rate
environment. Our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio is 1.6x on the last 12-month basis. Our capital
allocation priorities remain unchanged, with our number one priority to reinvest in the business,
both in the pipeline and behind new launches.
We remain committed to keeping a strong investment-grade rating and will continue to pursue
value-enhancing business development transactions.
Towards the end of last year, we announced a license agreement with Eccogene and the
proposed acquisitions of Icosavax and Gracell. Finally, we maintain a progressive dividend policy
defined as either a stable or increasing dividend.
With that, I will hand over to Dave.
`David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `
Thanks, Aradhana. Really appreciate that. So, Oncology total revenues of $18.4 billion in the full
year period, grew 21% versus the prior year, and that was driven by strong global demand of our
key medicines.
Tagrisso global revenues grew 6% in the fourth quarter, reflecting strong double-digit growth for
the U.S. and Europe. Performance in the quarter was partially offset by continued impact from the
June 2023 mandatory price reduction in Japan, as well as expected impact from hospital
ordering dynamics in China, and a rebate reclassification in Australia.
In the fourth quarter, Lynparza delivered 8% product sales growth and remains the leading PARP
inhibitor globally, despite ongoing class challenges. In the period, we recognized $245 million in
regulatory milestones for Merck, following the U.S. PROpel approval and BRCA-mutated prostate
cancer.
Imfinzi, inclusive of Imjudo, grew 52% in the fourth quarter, fueled by further global demand
growth in gastrointestinal tumors. In 2024, we expect continued progress with TOPAZ 1 in
Himalaya, although Topaz 1 demand in the U.S. will moderate, as the regimen is now established
as the clear standard of care.
In Japan, a 25% price reduction, based on sales, took effect in February of this year. An additional
mandatory price reduction is anticipated later this year, based on recent fixed-dosing approvals.
Calquence total revenues increased 14% in the fourth quarter, driven by continued new patient
share gains across both frontline and relapsed refractory CLL. And HER2 total revenues of $364
million in the fourth quarter, increased 68% year on year.
In the U.S. and Germany, we're very encouraged by new patient share gains in the HER2 positive
setting, firmly establishing Enhertu as the undisputed standard of care across HER2 positive and
HER2 low metastatic breast cancer.In November of last year, we received approval for Truqap, our novel AKT inhibitor in the U.S., and
for Imfinzi, Topaz-1 in China.
Importantly, we received a priority review designation for an HER2 Enhertu expressing tumors,
and adjuvant use of Tagrisso was added for the first time to the NRDL in China, at no discount.
With the exciting approval of Truqap, we have the opportunity to further extend our leadership in
breast cancer, including in the hormone receptor positive landscape. And HER2 is the established
standard of care in late line HER2 low, and we look forward to the results of the Destiny Breast-
06 trial in the first half of this year, and the opportunity to bring Enhertu one line earlier and
expand into HER2 ultra low tumors.
Data from the TROPION-Breast 01 trial of Dato-Dxd in hormone receptor positive HER2 low
breast cancer was presented at ESMO last year, during the presidential symposium. Discussions
with health authorities and pre-launch planning activities are already well underway.
Finally, aligned with our ambition to establish a new endocrine therapy backbone, we now have
several pivotal trials ongoing in the frontline for our next-generation oral SERD, camizestrant,
including in combination with CDK4-6 inhibitors and Truqap.
Truqap is being very well received by the clinical community in the United States, and we are
already seeing rapid adoption, with the majority of new starts in patients with biomarker-altered
tumors, who have previously received a CDK4-6 inhibitor, which is consistent with our views of the
addressable population. We see potential for Truqap to become the new standard of care, and
second line for endocrine-treated patients with PIK3CA, AKT1, or P10-altered tumors.
And with that, we'll advance to the next slide, and I'll hand over to Susan to cover R&D highlights
in the quarter.
`Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Thank you, Dave. In December, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Gracell
Technologies, which furthers our cell therapy ambition across Oncology and Autoimmune
Diseases.
Gracell has a proprietary cell therapy manufacturing platform called FasTCAR. The FasTCAR
platform has several key benefits. First, it significantly reduces the manufacturing time from
between one and three weeks to 22 to 36 hours, with the opportunity to improve median
turnaround time, and also enable increased manufacturing capacity as well as predictability of
CAR-T delivery.
Second, a lower dose of cells needs to be manufactured for each patient, which reduces the risk
of cytokine release syndrome, and that can improve the safety profile.
And third, the shorter manufacturing time delivers fitter T-cells, and this potentially improves the
efficacy with this CAR-T. This proposed acquisition also enriches our growing pipeline of cell
therapies with GC012F, a novel clinical stage dual BCMA and CD19 targeting autologous CAR-T.
Phase 1 data were presented at the ASH meeting in December. In 22 patients with newly
diagnosed high-risk multiple myeloma, the objective response rate was 100%. And we saw a
minimal residual disease negativity rate between 95% and 100%, 6 to 12 months after infusion.
This demonstrates the promise of this potential therapy, when you move it into an earlier line
setting.Safety was also favorable with only 27% of patients experiencing either grade 1 or 2 Cytokine
Release Syndrome, and no grade 3 or above events. Additionally we did not see any neurological
toxicity, which can be associated with this type of therapy.
With a median follow-up time of 18.8 months, median PFS and median duration of response had
not been reached, also highlighting the durability of the response. We believe that GC012F has
potential applications across hematologic malignancies, including multiple myeloma, and will
further bolster our hematology pipeline, adding to Calquence; AZD0486, our CD19, CD3, next-
generation bispecific T-cell engager; and AZD0305, our GPRC5d targeting antibody drug
conjugate.
We also have two further homegrown hematology molecules, which have just entered the clinic, a
CD123 antibody drug conjugate, AZD9829; and a PRMT5 inhibitor, AZD3470. We look forward to
updating you on our exciting hematology pipeline over the course of this year. And with that, can
you please advance to the next slide, and I'll pass over to Ruud to cover BioPharmaceuticals'
performance.
`Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Thank you so much, Susan. BioPharmaceuticals delivered total revenue of $18.4 billion in 2023,
driven by growth of 18% in CVRM and 10% in R&I. Key highlights for the year included Farxiga
nearing $6 billion in total revenue and R&I returning to double digits growth.
Turning now to the fourth quarter, where within R&I, nearly half of the total revenue came from
Fasenra, Tezspire, Saphnelo, and Breztri. These medicines grew by a combined 40%, more than
offsetting the impact of Symbicort's generic entry.
And in V&I, Beyfortus continued to see strong demand in its first RSV season, generating $95
million of product sales and Alliance revenue for AstraZeneca in the quarter.
Lastly, we received our first sales-related milestone payment from Sanofi, totaling $27 million. We
have recently launched three innovative new medicines within Biopharmaceuticals. Launches in
new areas of Science and Medicine require us to raise awareness among patients and
practitioners, and often to build additional sales forces. Maximizing early momentum for these
launch brands is critical to delivering on their full potential.
Eplontersen is an amyloidosis treatment that we are developing in partnership with Ionis. In
January, it launched with the brand-new Wainua for patients with ATTR polyneuropathy, a
debilitating ultra-rare disease, which is generally fatal within a decade if left untreated.
Airsupra is the first rescue medicine to reduce exacerbation, and treat underlying inflammation,
and we have shown with the MANDELA trial, 28% reduction in the risk of severe asthma
exacerbations in adult patients compared to albuterol. We formally launched Airsupra last month
for adult patients and over time, we hope to see primary care physicians in the United States
changed 50 years of prescribing habits.
As mentioned, we are off to a strong start and are only halfway through the first RSV season that
Beyfortus has been available for infants. Following continued strong demand and the recent
approval in China, we are planning for a substantial increase in capacity in 2024.
We continue to invest behind the Farxiga brand, with growth being driven across the globe, by
recent launches in heart failure and chronic kidney disease. In the coming years, we aim to
continue to build on this franchise, with new combination medicines in development, that addressAnd with additional enemies in our late-stage and early-stage pipeline, our CVRM portfolio is set
to expand and evolve over the mid to long-term. We recently commenced Phase III trials for
baxdrostat in uncontrolled and resistant hypertension, as well as for zibotentan combined with
dapagliflozin, addressing patients with CKD and high proteinuria.
Eplontersen is also being evaluated for the treatment of ATTR cardiomyopathy, which is
estimated to affect up to 0.5 million patients worldwide. Our Phase III CARDIO-TTRansform trial is
the largest of its kind, and is powered to show a cardiovascular mortality benefit, and we're very
pleased to share today that we have obtained Fast Track designation from the FDA, for our
cardiomyopathy regulatory file.
I will now hand over to Sharon, to present the latest developments from the Biopharma pipeline.
`Sharon Barr, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
Thank you so much, Ruud. I wanted to take this opportunity to highlight our current portfolio in
Immunology, as well as provide more color on our recent business development deals, focused
on immune-mediated diseases.
In Saphnelo's pivotal Phase III TULIP trials in systemic lupus erythematosus, we saw positive
changes in cutaneous lupus. We are building on this, and expanding into new indications. We have
started enrolling patients in our Phase III DAISY trial of Saphnelo in patients with systemic
sclerosis, a chronic disease characterized by diffuse fibrosis and vascular abnormalities in the skin,
joints, and internal organs, which can be fatal.
We also have plans to initiate two other Saphnelo Phase III trials this year in cutaneous lupus and
myositis. Our recent business development deals have accelerated our ambitions in immune-
mediated diseases. Emerging data from Dr.(Inaudible) Academic Group has shown the potential
for long-term remission with CAR-T's in systemic lupus erythematosus.
Part of our definitive agreement to acquire Gracell includes autologous CAR-T's, with an ongoing
Phase I investigator-initiated trial with GC012F, a CD19 and BCMA CAR-T in 15 Chinese patients
with SLA. We look forward to sharing the Phase I data at an upcoming conference.
Our collaboration with Quell is designed to develop multiple engineered T-regulatory cell
therapies, which have the potential to be transformative in type I diabetes and inflammatory
bowel diseases. T-reg cell therapies have a unique approach of modulating the immune system
to reduce inflammation, and prevent immune-mediated damage to tissues. Quell's innovative
platform of armored Tregs could enable sustained clinical benefit.
And finally, our collaboration with Cellectis allows us to explore the potential of an allogeneic
CAR-T platform. Off-the-shelf availability from allogeneic CAR-T cells is expected to reduce the
time and cost associated with manufacturing.
With these innovative transformational cell therapies, as well as our internal capabilities, we are
building a platform, for a pipeline in immune-mediated diseases with transformative potential.
I will now hand over to Marc, who will cover our Rare Disease portfolio.
`Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer, Alexion and Chief Strategy Officer `
So thank you, Sharon. And for Rare Disease, the total revenue achieved $7.8 billion in 2023, up
12% year-over-year, driven by growth in Neurology indications, increased patient demand, and
launches in new markets.In the quarter, Ultomiris grew 38% and plus 52% for the full year, driven by neurology indication,
with a vast majority of growth coming from generalized myasthenia gravis patients, who are naive
to branded treatments. As previously indicated, Ultomiris revenues were broadly in line with
Soliris for the year, but if you look at the fourth quarter, Ultomiris revenues exceeded Soliris.
Our conversion strategy is progressing well, with a majority of patients already converted across
PHN, atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome, and GMG in our major markets. We continue to launch
both medicines globally and expect the C5 franchise, Soliris and Ultomiris revenues to remain
sustainable and durable.
Beyond complement, both Strensiq and Koselugo grew 13% and 48% respectively, driven by
continued patient demand.
I'm also delighted to announce that we have started enrolling patients in office, three trials for
transthyretin amyloid, cardiomyopathy, as well as for hypophosphatasia. ALXN2220 is a
monoclonal antibody, designed to deplete toxic amyloid fibrils in the heart, with the potential to
treat TTR cardiomyopathy, in combination with standard of care stabilizers or silencers.
Our Phase III trial is recruiting a broad range of patients, with moderate and severe disease. It has
been designed with hard cardiovascular endpoints, all-cause mortality, and cardiovascular events,
which are extremely important for patients and clinicians, as well as for regulators and payers.
We have begun enrollment in our Phase III program, with efzimfotase alfa in hypophosphatasia,
including two trials in the pediatric setting, investing both naive and switch patients, as well as a
larger trial in naive adults and adolescents.
These trials represent a broad set of hypophosphatasia patients, including those with both
skeletal and functional improvements. We believe that this product, with every two-week dosing,
and lower volume injections, coupled with improved manufacturing, creates a significant
opportunity to increase the addressable population by three times as compared to Strensiq.
We have made great progress in our late-stage pipeline, with nine Phase III programs underway,
and our 10th program, Ultomiris in IgAN is initiating soon.
With that, please advance, I'll give to Pascal.
`Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Marc. If I move to the last slide, this is really to show you that over the next few
months, we have quite a number of catalysts that are going to drive us across Oncology,
BioPharm, but also Rare Diseases. And we have a few here that are listed. Of course, a number
are missing.
We also have FLAURA2 that we'll deliver updated OS data in the course of 2024. But some of the
most important ones here are going to drive the growth of several of our important products.
FLAURA for Tagrisso; DESTINY-Breast06 driving Enhertu; TROPION-Breast02 with that Dato-DXd;
the WAYPOINT study studying Tezspire in chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps; and finally
EMERALD-2, Imfinzi. But there is, of course, a lot more than this.
The other point I wanted to make, in conclusion, is that the mid-term pipeline is actually emerging
very rapidly. We have some very good data coming up out of our bispecifics portfolio, and there
will be more data points communicated in the course of this year.Our ADCs will have more data also to share about our ADCs and how this pipeline is shaping up.
We have an emerging metabolism portfolio that, we don't talk much yet, but is actually
progressing very nicely.
We have a very exciting oral PCSK9, that is making good progress. Baxdrostat is for hypertension,
is now in Phase III. And finally, we have, of course, the oral GLP-1 agent we licensed in. And the
beauty about those agents is that they can be combined. They can be combined with ADC. They
can be combined between themselves. And so, we have here a metabolism portfolio that is
really starting to take good shape. And beyond the products I've mentioned, there's more to
come, of course, in obesity, but also in cardiovascular, in heart disease, and in renal disease.
Cell therapy, we will, this year, communicate some of the results of our mid-stage studies
progression. And finally, we will also be communicating information about our new DDR pipeline,
and in particular, the PARP1 selective.
So, as you can see here, quite a lot of new data coming up, both from the Phase III pipeline, but
also from our mid-stage pipeline that will give you a sense for what is coming up and why we
believe, why we're so excited, where we believe we can continue to drive top-line growth over
the next 10 years, and drive improvement and profitability as a result of this.
Finally, I want to invite you all to our R&D Day. This will be in Cambridge at the DISC, our new R&D
Center. You will see, as you -- for those of you who join us on the 21st of May, you will see this a
fantastic site and our teams are very excited to be there, and I'm sure it will drive further
momentum in our R&D productivity.
And the reason we do this R&D Day is, as I said before, we've just completed our 10-year journey
that we started in 2014. We're engaging in the next phase of our journey, the next 10 years, and
we thought it's a good time to sit back and update our strategy and show you why we are so
confident that the future is bright for AstraZeneca.
So with this, I'll stop here, and then open the floor for questions. James.
Questions And Answers
A - `Andy Barnett, Head, Investor Relations `
(Question And Answer)
Q - `James Gordon, JPMorgan Chase & Co. `
Thank you. `James Gordon, JPMorgan Chase & Co. from JPMorgan. I'll do just two questions, please. The first one was on
revenues for this year. So the guidance low double digit or low teens is a revenue target, but I
think bears are worried that lots of that is collaboration revenues growing and product sales
slowing. So can you just say, is that fair? Do you also think that you can sustain the same sort of
pace of product sales growth or is it really about collaboration revenues taking over from product
sales. That's the first question, please.
And then I think that the second question, the other thing that some bears have said today is that
the top line guidance is about the same pace as the bottom line guidance. So, that would imply
then that margins might be about flat.
And then I've seen, I think it was Slide 6, you said that the -- in the medium-term margins will get
to the mid-30s. But does that mean margins will be flat this year, and then have to have a biginflection in '25 and '26 to get there? So thoughts on that, and whether there is going to be lots
more OpEx and how that's going to work, please?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, James. Great questions. And you will open the floor, I'm sure. But let me just be very
categorical here. Our product sales are going to grow very strongly. So the collaboration revenue,
of course, are adding to that growth. But certainly product sales are very much on track to deliver
the kind of growth that is included in the guidance range that we're communicating.
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I mean if you look at just for example, the growth in 2023 across the franchises, right, with
Oncology growing 21%, Rare Disease 12%, 18% in CVRM. So we, and all of that is from current
products. So we expect that that momentum to continue into the coming year.
Obviously, different products have different sort of dynamics and so forth. So the growth will
come in product sales from both current products as well as some of the new launches that we
have, though, again, they're early in their launch trajectory.
I think on your second question, so when we have given obviously a range on both top line and
bottom line, but some of the other elements that I mentioned in my prepared remarks, one was,
for example, the finance expense that we expect slightly to go up, given the transactions that we
did towards the end of last year, and so forth, and refinancing for some of the debt that we have.
The second element is, we obviously benefited a little bit from the tax rate last year, so that tax
rate benefit will also not be there. So, if you look at the totality of the P&L, those will also be
elements, and we get to the range that we have on EPS. And when you take that into account,
obviously, we expect the revenue growth to be pretty strong, but the operating expense growth
to be lagging the revenue growth, and that's what's operating leverage.
Q - `James Gordon, JPMorgan Chase & Co. `
Thank you.
Q - `Emily Field, Barclays `
Hi, `Emily Field, Barclays from Barclays. I have a couple of questions on Oncology. The first on Dato-DXd,
the AVANZAR study must have enrolled pretty quickly to be having a readout in 2025. If that
study were to be positive, would you file based on that study? I know it's designed somewhat
differently to T-L07 and T-L08.
And then on Enhertu for DESTINY-Breast06, how much does the inclusion of the ultra-low
population expand the addressable patient set? I think you've said before that HER2 low is about
50% of breast cancers. How much bigger does that get with HER2 ultra-low?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Susan?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Yes. So for AVANZAR. My mic on? Can you hear me?Yes.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Yes. Accrual has gone very well, which just, I think, demonstrates the interest in the potential not
just of Dato-DXd, but the combination in particular of Dato-DXd plus immune checkpoint
inhibition.
As you know, we've seen exciting data in a couple of different settings from the TROPION-
Lung02 and TROPION-Lung04 data sets, as well as the BEGONIA study in triple negative breast
cancer. I think investigators are very interested in the potential that this has to further improve the
outcomes for patients with first-line non-small cell lung cancer.
A - Unidentified Speaker
The study is progressing very quickly in recruitment, as you pointed out. The second one is DB06
and the low maybe for you, Davo?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `
Yeah. So, thanks, Emily, for the question on that. So I think as we -- two things that I think are
important about DB06. The first one is that it expands the opportunity if it's positive, like you
highlighted, to move into the ultra-low, specifically on that question, just to lay this out. So, if we
look at hormone receptor-positive metastatic breast cancer, within the 60% are the IHC 1-plus
and 2-plus. So that's the HER2 low that's covered by DB04.
Then we've got 25% that we estimate that's in this 0-to-1 category. So that's how much it adds
within this, and then you've got about 15% that are the true zeroes. So, first is that expansion
outside of the 1-pluses into the ultra-lows, and then also it's moving a line earlier.
And so, by moving a line earlier, there's two opportunities to see growth, and it'll be data-
dependent. But one of those is, of course, a longer duration of therapy you'd hope to get as you
move earlier. The other is that if the data are really compelling, you could see that that puts some
pressure on what we see as a lot of endocrine recycling that takes place within these patients. So
again, that'll be data-dependent. We'll have to see what the magnitude of benefit is. But there's
three different opportunities for 06 to contribute to growth moving forward.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Go ahead, yeah.
Q - `Matthew Weston, UBS `
Thank you. It's `Matthew Weston, UBS from UBS. Two questions, and if the first one I can stick with
Enhertu as well. I think 4Q U.S. sales probably were a little bit light in terms of growth of what
people were expecting when Daiichi reported them, so total end-user sales. And at the time, I
think Daiichi commented that penetration was reaching plateau in some of the U.S. markets, but
with the data expansion coming, there was going to be much more opportunity. I think a lot of
investors felt that HER2-low was significantly bigger than suggesting it had already plateaued. So
I'd love to understand what's happening there.
But also Dave, if you can touch on HER2 PanTumor, it seems to fly under the radar, may well
actually be quite a significant indication.And then, if I add there on the second question, you added into guidance that there's essentially
pointing to a one-time asset sale, being something to take into account for 2024. I don't
remember you doing that for quite some time, suggesting it might be of a significant size. Is
there any way you can help frame it?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `
I will start. So Matthew on Enhertu, and I made this comment in my prepared remarks, and I think
that it's an important piece, which is I had been commenting in quarters past, that we had found
that we had hit a 50% really kind of threshold that we were running into, when both HER2 positive
and HER2-low. But that we knew that there was opportunity to drive continued growth beyond
that.
And I was really pleased to see, and we've been really pleased to see that we've been putting
more effort against our promotional efforts within the U.S., and large markets within Europe.
We've done that in conjunction with the Truqap launch to really make sure that we've got the
promotional muscle that we need out there. And we're seeing movement in the HER2-positive
new patient starts. And so that's moving in the right direction and going the right level.
Now, if you think about where we were, basically, Matthew, what I think happened was we had
replaced a lot, if not almost all, of the Kadcyla use. And now we're moving into some harder
yards, but we're getting traction against it.
We turned HER2-low. HER2-low is, again, an opportunity for continued growth beyond, where
we've gotten to. It is, in many respects, a more complicated discussion to be able to have,
because we're talking about multiple therapeutic alternatives that exist within the hormone
receptor positive space. We're obviously working on testing efforts.
All of this, though, I think that again, I've got optimism that we've got an opportunity to continue
to grow. I think that Enhertu has a lot of growth in front of it with 03 and 04, still in the U.S., still in
Europe. And I think that 06, which Emily just asked about, would be further tailwinds to add to
that.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
PanTumor. David?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `
PanTumor. PanTumor is a spot where right now we've got breakthrough therapy designation in
later lines in the highest of over expressors. And so I think that when you take a look at that
population, you've got several thousands of patients across multiple tumor types that could be
addressable for this.
And while our early label might be relatively modest compared to, for example, the 03 and 04
opportunities, I think that the more evidence generation that takes place, the more that we
continue to do work in this space, and if we can demonstrate in the lower levels of expression, I
think PanTumor is exactly that third leg of the stool, that Susan and I were talking about to add to
HER2 positive breast and HER2-low to be a good growth driver in the mid-term for Enhertu.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
So before I hand over, Aradhana, do you want to?A - `Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
So, we talked about the other income, which we expect to decline substantially. And again, last
year, remember, there were two particular transactions that contributed a large amount. So,
we've not signaled any asset sales. We do expect collaboration revenue to increase substantially.
And we've talked about milestones and potential transactions we're contemplating, but we're
not in a position to give more details today. And we'll see how the year unfolds.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `
Pascal, super briefly, one thing that I forgot to mention on this, NCCN Guidelines have included
now endometrial, cervical and ovarian for Enhertu within the population that we got the priority
review for. So, I do think that that's an acknowledgment that the clinical community is seeing the
benefit of that study. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Andrew?
Q - `Andrew Baum, Citi `
Thank you. It's `Andrew Baum, Citi of Citi. Staying with Enhertu and PanTumor trial. So you have HER2-
low as part of that trial, and there's been very clear signals in many malignancies that Enhertu is
active, and obviously, you have the manufacturing. It's been de-risked. So my question is, are you
leaving money on the table by not seeking to expedite development for individual HER2-low
indications? Because it looks like you're not going to get approval for PanTumor in HER2-low, so
you're going to need to set the trials. There are competitors with HER2 assets, who have initiated
trials in those HER2-low settings. So have you just left white space for a competitor to come in,
when you've got an asset that you could be monetizing in that setting?
And then the second question is in relation to Truqap. I'm curious what you think of the (Inaudible)
data and how that's going to impact the use of Truqap, given you're hitting the same PI3K-AKT
pathway. Many thanks.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Susan?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Yeah, so for the white space question, when you've got a brand like Enhertu, which has really,
exceptional activity across, I think the philosophy is to make sure that we develop it to the
maximum of its potential. So again, not everything that we're planning to do is currently visible,
but you'd expect to see, other trials.
You know, I do think that we can build on what we've actually seen with PanTumor, and I think it
creates a lot of opportunity there. So we intend to leave as little white space as possible.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
And Truqap.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `And in terms of the --
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Just the market size for the --
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes, sure. I mean, look, I think that what I would comment on most, Andrew, is that we're seeing
very positive receptivity to Truqap. We've seen strong uptake in terms of number of new patients
that are being started on therapy. We're actually hearing an awful lot of desire among the
community to have seen a broader label, based upon the data sets that were presented than
what we'd seen.
And obviously, within the context of the competitive landscape, the Truqap data will ultimately be
looked at within that context. But I think it really is showing favorably within that context. And we
anticipate that we'll continue to have a strong launch for the medicine through the year, and look
forward to the additional life cycle readouts that we're going to have on the heels of, obviously,
the 2-91.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
So, again, there are other opportunities, I would just say, with capivasertib for combination, but
also remember it treats a broader group of patients than just the PI3 kinase alpha mutant group.
You've got the P10 and you've got the AKT activation as well. So, there's multiple ways in which
it's different, but I think the first line space is also something that is of interest.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `
Yeah, Andrew, I mean, I think that the piece on this, and maybe I skipped over it, because I
thought it was kind of without saying, but Truqap is post-CDK4-6, and the Invo isn't -- is not. So
we are looking at different populations and different spots.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
It is a different population. So they're taking into that first line setting fast progresses. So it's not --
even if you take the same population that went into 291, and look at them in the first line, they
don't completely overlap with the Inova patient population. I hope that's clear.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Citi `
Yes. That's probably all.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
Okay.
Q - `Peter Welford, Jefferies Group LLC `
It's `Peter Welford, Jefferies Group LLC with Jefferies. Two questions sticking to the norm. So first question is on the
investor event on the 21st of May, or I think it was called afterwards an R&D event. I guess,
curious, can you outline, is this going to be an event very much focused on the mid-term pipeline,
or will you also be giving that 10-year vision? And on that, is this going to be a 10-year vision
setting another 10-year revenue aim? And I guess, what sort of granularity should we anticipateAnd then the second one is on Airsupra. So you mentioned, obviously, that the 2023 was very
much a year of building access, building awareness, building this. I guess, curious now, in 2024,
you -- the comment made, I think, was over time we expect the U.S. PCPs to change 50 years of
habit.
I mean, that sounds as though there's still a lot of slog to go. So if you could just talk about, how
have the payer discussions gone, was that successful? Is the barrier now the doctors? Or should
2024 be a year where we put anything in the model? Or is this another year where we should be
really be thinking about the inflections yet to come?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
So two great questions, Peter. Let me just cover the first one, and Ruud, you could cover Airsupra.
So the R&D day, really what we want to do, as I explained earlier, is explain what our strategy is,
and why we think we can grow strongly over the next 10 years.
So we are, of course, going to look at our mid-term pipeline, but also we want to look at the
investments we're making in new technologies, new platforms that will actually deliver growth
from '28, '29 and beyond. So we actually give you a good understanding of not only the near-
term, but also the mid-term and the long-term.
As it relates to whether we're going to set up a long-term revenue ambition, we may, but we
haven't decided this. But I can tell you that we're very, very confident that we can actually grow
very strongly over the next few years and work through some of the issues that have been
mentioned by some, for instance, Medicare Part D reform, we can work through that. In the end,
the impact of this is there, but it's relatively limited. I hesitate to use the word marginal, but it's
quite limited in the context of our global sales. So we can work through this.
We can work through the patent expiries that we have, that are limited, and continue to deliver
very strong growth. And of course, it's not going to be the same growth number every year, but if
you look at it over the next five years and then 10 years, we certainly can grow. And that's what
we actually want to hopefully convince you, as we share our strategy, and we'll see whether we
come up with a number or not. Ruud?
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Yeah, let me first re-articulate, let's say, the excitement we have regarding Airsupra. First of all,
this is a very substantial market. In the United States alone, there are roughly 15 million to 18
million scripts only for Salbutamol in the asthma 18 plus indication.
Having said that, we started our journey in order to gain access last year. So the good news is we
have now formulary listings in three of the largest commercial PBMs.Based on the registration, we
were just too late in order to get Part D. So, we're bidding for Part D in the course of 2024.
So, hopefully, that will create more access moving forward. Many patients anyway are in
commercial, are younger patients. What we have seen in the first few weeks, it's still very early
days, is a very nice number of trialists, already thousands of GPs, but also specialists are
prescribing Airsupra. Having said that, access is still, let's say, an issue we're working through. So
we need to buy down the cost per scripts quite substantially.
So my clear steer is we're off of a very strong start in the United States. But equally, of course, it
will take time to get enough access, in order to switch off the now conversion. And hence, then,
the sales will follow. It's more or less the pattern we have seen with Breztri. You have seen in theannouncement, Breztri is growing over 70%. It's on its way to become a blockbuster, hopefully,
very soon. And I think we're expecting the same pattern also for Airsupra moving forward.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
I think really important point, as Ruud said, is really to expect that this is not an Oncology new
indication that really addresses a big unmet need with a very fast sales ramp-up. It's more
progressive. But the beauty of this kind of inhaled products is that when you are established, you
have a very durable asset. I mean, look at Symbicort, it's been around for a long, long time, and
it's still out there. And it's still a very good product with good sales, very good profitability.
So we have to have the resilience to get it to the right level. And then it will stay at a good level
for a long time to come, because there's not a huge amount of competition, and there is a clear
unmet need there. Emmanuel?
Q - `Mark Purcell, Morgan Stanley `
It's `Mark Purcell, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Thank you. Two questions. The first one for Aradhana, I
guess, what some people are being concerned by this morning is the certain anticipated
transactions part of your CR guidance, which you expect to increase substantially in 2024. I guess
they've triangulated that with a Part 1 selected moving forward, and the last time you moved
forward with a PARP inhibitor, you had a 1.6 billion upfront milestone from a partner. So, can you
confirm that R&D as potential revenues is still in the low 20s? I presume it is. But more
importantly, could you give us some qualitative guidance on SG&A, which obviously stepped up a
lot in Q4, and just where that will land for the full year '24?
And then the second question is on your CKM syndrome pipeline. I guess, this is all about going
after symptomatic diseases like obesity and preserved ejection, heart failure, to capture
asymptomatic diseases like CKD. So, could you help us understand the opportunity here, and the
level of investment you're going to put behind this combination of assets, this franchise?
And then specifically on the Eccogene drug, we're getting a lot of questions around
manufacturing. If you can help us understand how many CMC steps this product has, given that
with, (Inaudible) it's estimated to be over 30%, and therefore incredibly difficult to scale. Thank
you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Aradhana?
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. So, on the SG&A front, if you look at fourth quarter last year, which I think you mentioned is a
concern in terms of the step up. If you look at last several years, the fourth quarter is always one
of our largest quarter in terms of SG&A. That does not mean that's the run rate, sort of, obviously
going forward.
And then, when you look at 2023, and our updated guidance, and some of these -- some of the
tax transactions and net tax changes that we were -- we had in mind, and we managed the whole
P&L. So we chose to invest in certain areas, including some of the launches that you heard about
from Ruud, and so forth. So that sort of explains, the fourth quarter of 2023.
I think, on looking on 2024, we've obviously given guidance on top line and bottom line. I've
talked about some of the increase you'll have in finance expenses. I've talked a little bit about thegrowth margin expectations. And so, you can you can sort of consider that, and see where the
SG&A growth will be. We are obviously committed to operating leverage, and we do expect that,
given those puts and takes, that the SG&A growth will be lower than the total revenue growth.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
And maybe, Mark, just to add to this, I understand now the question or so the concern that you
mentioned and connecting to James earlier questions. I think it's important to keep in mind that
we believe the product sales -- in our guidance, product sales will grow strongly. I mean, the
guidance is low double digit to low teens, right? So that's a range. And product sales will be in
that range. So, messages are top-line revenue growth is not driven. I mean, it's not dependent on
this one, as you said. Yes. Ruud?
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Yeah, so let me first phrase a little bit the opportunity in CKD, Mark. There are more than 800
million patients around the world suffering from CKD. And despite the progress we have seen in
the last few years, especially the SGLT2 class, including our own Farxiga, there's still a huge unmet
medical need. And hence our, let's say, excitement, also the products we have in development,
clearly one is the combination of dapagliflozin and zibotentan. And of course, Sharon can talk
about that as well, makes us quite bullish about this opportunity.
Now, equally, Mark is developing Alexion potential IgAN molecule. This is a space where many
companies have left the field, the kidney space, while we believe that there are huge
opportunities, based on our pipeline, in order to really build a very strong pipeline. So, I don't
know whether you want to talk a little bit about one of the combinations, Sharon.
A - `Sharon Barr, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
Sure, I'd love to. So, you asked us about the scope of our investment, and then I'll also address
your question about our space -- our focus on metabolism. So, to reframe what Ruud said, there
are 20 million people living with CKD and hypertension in the U.S. alone. So clearly, this is a very
large market, and it speaks to the interrelatedness of cardiorenal and cardiometabolic disease.
So thinking about how we can address the different flavors of CKD with our portfolio, we're
advancing the Baxdro-Dapa combination. It's in Phase III for CKD.
We have Balcinrenone combined with dapagliflozin, the Miracle Phase II study in CKD with heart
failure, achieved high-level results at the end of last year. And we really look forward to sharing
those at an upcoming conference, and we're in the thick of Phase III planning at this point.
And then the combination of zibotentan with dapagliflozin allows us to address CKD with high
proteinuria. And we have initiated the Zenith Phase III trial. So clearly, we're heavily invested in this
space, and we view this as an opportunity to manage the complexity of cardiorenal disease, and
to help people manage their overall health.
With that in mind, we do think that our metabolism portfolio dovetails very nicely with these
efforts to achieve organ protection, while managing health, because we understand that these
diseases are highly interconnected.
So, if we think that there are 64 million people with heart failure worldwide, 15 million alone in
Europe --in Europe alone. And we know that 50% of those patients have renal impairment and
42% have some interrelated metabolic disease, it makes sense that we want to continue to
expand our portfolio in the metabolism space.We have been, I think, very open about the acquisition and our interest in the 5004 program.
Although this is not our only program, this is one piece of our overall focus on metabolic disease.
Moving along at pace, we also have a long-acting amylin, as well as a GLP-1 glucagon dual agonist.
Speaking briefly to 5004, we're excited about this asset. We're encouraged to see it move
forward into two Phase IIb trials this year.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
You want to say a few words about the manufacturing steps?
A - `Sharon Barr, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
Actually, I'll say two things. The first is that one key focus for 5004 is being able to simplify our
manufacturing process, and come up with a simpler synthetic route. And together with our
collaborators at Eccogene, I think we're making substantial progress on that front.
The second thing that I will say, continues to speak to the interconnectedness of disease, which is
that 5004, as an orally bioavailable molecule, is very well suited to potential combinations with
other oral molecules in our portfolio. And so I would include in that list, Farxiga, as well as our oral
PCSK9 inhibitor.
And so, we look forward to sharing results of our Phase I trial, which only recently wrapped up.
This was a highly controlled four week inpatient trial that was piloted by Eccogene. We achieved
database lock at the end of December, and we look forward to sharing the data at an upcoming
medical conference.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Maybe one quick point one quick point is that everybody focuses on obesity, but there is this big
segment of people who are not obese, they're overweight. So they don't need to lose 25%
weight, they need to lose a bit of weight, and they have metabolic disease, sometimes with
organ damage as well. And in that segment, which is extremely large and where the payers are
more likely to pay, managing the various dimensions of the metabolic syndrome with the PCSK9,
with Dapa, with Baxdrostat, and being able to combine is going to be a substantial advantage, if
you have this portfolio that we have.
Q - `Simon Baker, Redburn Atlantic `
Thanks, Pascal. `Simon Baker, Redburn Atlantic from Redburn Atlantic. Two if I may, please. Firstly, on Tezspire and
Saphnelo, now they've both been on the market for a while. I wonder if you could give us an
update on the characteristics of the prescribers and patients so far, for both drugs.
A question on Gracell and FasTCAR, if you could just give us an idea of how easily scalable that
manufacturing technology is? And also a bit more color on the comment that Gracell have made
in the past, that there was a substantial manufacturing cost advantage here, which sounds like it
could be quite significant as you move into autoimmune areas. Any color on that would be very
much appreciated. Thank you.
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Yeah, let me first start with your question about Tezspire, the product is doing very well, not only
in the United States, but also equally in the markets we have just launched. We have leading
NBRX or new-to-brand market shares in countries like Spain and Germany. The patient population
is a very interesting one. It's primarily the patients who have let's say a moderate or normaleosinophil count, and are allergic. So, the low T2 patient population is highly dominant, in what we
see so far. But equally, we also know from our clinical studies that the Tezspire is also very well
established in the high eosinophils in the United States.
So, the broad utility of the product, and no need for a biomarker, no need for phenotyping,
makes it a highly attractive choice for especially allergists, and more and more pulmonologists as
well. So, we have high expectations and together with our partner, Amgen, I think it's fair to say
that the product is on its way to become a blockbuster any time soon. So that's one.
Saphnelo is another very nice story. It's the only interferon receptor antagonist. As we all know,
lupus is a disease with multiple manifestations and multiple organ manifestations. It's particularly
very impactful on skin disease. And we have seen very, very strong feedback from
rheumatologists that patients primarily with skin manifestations are reacting very well on
Saphnelo. Equally, we're only operating in the intravenous markets as we speak. So, we're doing
for the last one and a half, two years, a relatively large study for subcutaneous formulation.
And I truly believe hopefully next year that study will read out. And if we have a positive readout,
it will provide another clear opportunity. And as Sharon mentioned in her remarks, we're very
keen to move Saphnelo also in multiple other indications, in order to further grow the brand to
also equally a blockbuster brand in the next few years.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Ruud. Susan, do you want to comment on Gracell?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
So, as I mentioned in my prepared remarks, the actual time that you need to manufacture the
FasTCAR is substantially shorter than for some other currently commercially available CAR-T
therapies. That's one component of the turnaround time, obviously. So it's one component also
of the manufacturing cost.
I think it does help with scalability, because the amount of time then you need to process each
individual patient's batch is also shorter within the manufacturing facility. So what that means is
that you do get increased capacity for a given size of the manufacturing building that you've
created. So that's important.
But also, it means that you can be more predictable about the delivery. And because you're
actually generating a smaller total number of the cells that have to be delivered to the patient,
the likelihood of success of each of those is higher. So, all of these things, I think, contributes to
the overall benefit that we see from the FasTCAR process.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Susan. Maybe we could take one online question. `Tim Anderson, Wolfe Research, Wolfe Research. Tim,
over to you.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Wolfe Research `
Thank you. Any headwinds to revenue growth for individual key brands in 2024 that you'd like to
call out, relative to where you see consensus. So in Rare Diseases, you're facing some new
competition. In Oncology, you talked about Enhertu, but what about, Tagrisso or Calquence.
Calquence in the U.S. seems to be stalling out, for example.And then the second question on Dato, any risk to approval in the U.S., in lung and non-squamous
based on what you have today. To me, the regulatory precedent says it should be low risk, and
you should get approved, but that's not necessarily the consensus view. So, what's your
confidence here? And what happens if OS misses in non-squamous, remains supportive, but
doesn't formally fit? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Tim. What I'll propose, Marc, you cover Ultomiris, and the general competitive
environment.
Dave you could cover Calquence and Tagrisso. And Tagrisso, maybe also talk about, not only the
headwinds but also the potential upsides.
And then, Susan you cover Dato.
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer, Alexion and Chief Strategy Officer `
So let me start with Ultomiris. So, basically the headwind that we can anticipate is the introduction
of biosimilars in the PNH indication. Two competitors have started to gain approval in 2023. The
impact on '23 is still very limited, but obviously, this could increase over time. The way we
counteract this headwind is by converting as fast as possible from Soliris to Ultomiris, and in the
main indications, both hematology [ph] indication as well as PNH. The conversion is very high. It's
in the in the magnitude of 80%. That's the first thing.
The way we're also sustaining the growth of the Complement franchise is by expanding our
regional presence. And we have augmented significantly in 2023. We still have more work to do
in 2024. We're increasing the number of approval and reimbursement for Soliris as well as for
Ultomiris.
And lastly, this is a long-term work that we have been doing to make this franchise, C5 franchise,
sustainable. We are continuing to develop new indications. We have NMO that has been
approved recently in Europe and Japan with very rapid uptake. We are soon to get the U.S.
approval. But we will also continue with other indications which are presently in Phase III.
So not only on the C5, then we have also, if we want to, but C5, we have the nanobody bispecific
1720, Gefurulimab that is well advanced in Phase III and should be coming to the market in
myasthenia gravis very soon. So there is a future -- a very bright future for the C5 franchise, and
the Complement franchise overall.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Marc.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `
Turning to Oncology, and Tim on your question. So very directly on your first question, which is are
there any places where there's headwinds relative to consensus? I commented in my prepared
remarks on the only one that I would call out, but I think it's important, which is that in Japan in
February, we had repricing on Imfinzi, that I'm not sure is built into all of the models moving
ahead. And we do anticipate, because of some changes from weight-based to fixed dosing that
we will see another in Japan, Imfinzi price adjustment.With that said, on the specific question about Tagrisso, I'm enthusiastic about where Tagrisso
ends the year and where it comes into next year. As I mentioned, we're seeing good underlying
demand growth sequentially within the U.S. and within Europe, and I think that is coming on the
heels of ADAURA and FLAURA performing well.
We've got an opportunity in China, despite the competition that we're seeing there, to move out
of this anti-corruption shadow that I think has affected the ability to be able to really take
advantage of a leadership position that we have, all doing the right thing, but just in terms of
access in general to oncologists has been more limited.
We've got FLAURA2, which, knock on wood, we'll see an approval on here sometime within the
year. We've got LAURA, which I think is a really important catalyst, that we'll read out again here
within the first half. So I look at the outset on this, and I think also on a competitive landscape
basis, FLAURA2 positions us pretty nicely.
On Calquence, no question that we've got a competitive environment and we've got a direct
competition, but I also like what our U.S. and European teams have been able to do in the face of
that competition. I think that within that, we've got a leadership position within frontline CLL, that
we've been able to maintain. I think if you take some of the month or the quarterly phasing out of
the situation, we've seen really good, strong underlying demand growth on Calquence
throughout the entirety of the year.
I'm hopeful and optimistic that as co-pay within the U.S. is lowered, Pascal talked about this in his
remarks, and we see affordability go from patients having to pay 5% of the catastrophic to zero,
and therefore a co-pay cap that is $2,000, that this is going to give patients the ability to be able
to stay on, and have greater adherence to continuous treatment to progression on BTK
therapies.
So again, we have to see that play out. We have to see how that works through. But I think that
these are elements that give me enthusiasm about the Oncology portfolio and the opportunities
in front of us.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
I think this co-pay cap, it should really not be underestimated, because if you look at the U.S.
System on the Medicare side now, it is going to be a very, very good system. I mean, many
countries have co-pays. I mean, Australia has co-pays, Switzerland has co-pays, many countries
have co-pays. And here in the United States, people, patients are going to be able to say, I'm not
going to pay more than $2,000 a year, regardless of how many drugs I receive, regardless of
how much they cost, $2,000.
Now, you might say $2,000 is a fair amount of money, but if you have a car insurance, a house
insurance, that's going to cost you at least that, and many people can afford this. And it's a great
level of reassurance in terms of taking your medicines and being adherent to them. And for us, it
will mean a reduction of free goods we have to give, which has been increasing substantially in
the last few years, as more and more people cannot afford to cover the co-pays.
Q - `Luisa Hector, Berenberg `
Thank you. It's `Luisa Hector, Berenberg from Berenberg.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Oh, I'm sorry.
Q - `Luisa Hector, Berenberg `
Sorry.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice President, Oncology R&D `
That's all right. So can I answer? Yes.
Okay. First of all, thanks for the question. You know, we're confident that Dato-DXd is going to be
important medicine in the treatment to non-small cell lung cancer. Obviously, we've been having
ongoing discussions with the regulatory authorities. TLA-1 is a trial with a dual primary endpoint.
Obviously, we met PFS as one of those primaries, but OS is going to be important in the second
to third line setting.
When you think historically, other than checkpoints inhibitors, no medicines have demonstrated
OS benefit and Dato-DX [ph] currently remains the standard of care. I'll remind you that in the
non-squamous population, the data that we presented at ASCO, we showed that the hazard
ratio in the non-squamous OS was 0.77 with a confidence interval that only just overlapped 1. So it
was 1.01 at the upper end. So I think that shows that we're not just seeing a progression-free
survival benefit, but there's a strong trend to OS within that patient population.
So, quite often as is normal as the OS events mature, we'll often have an update of the OS
during a period of review. And we'd anticipate that during the period of review for TLA-1, we can
update the OS.
Q - `Luisa Hector, Berenberg `
Sorry. Thank you, Luisa at Berenberg. I would like to ask Iskra to comment on comment on the
Icosavax deal and just the attractions of the assets there, and the opportunity to enter the RSV
market.
And then also maybe to pivot from that slightly bigger picture question, but essentially a margin
question, sorry. You've shown us the fabulous pipeline progress, the breadth and depth. We see
the entry into new therapeutic areas, the modalities, vaccines, obesity, cell therapies, et cetera.
So it's really bubbling.
So really it's about how you can be so confident, in some margin expansion mid-term. How can
that happen? Is there a point where selling costs, the infrastructure stabilizes? How do these
fabulous projects compete for R&D budget? Is it about strict almost attrition, making sure
absolutely the best projects are moving forward? So just any color on that, so that you can give us
confidence in the ability to raise margins, given all the excitement within the pipeline.
A - `Iskra Reic, Executive Vice President, Vaccines and Immune Therapies `
Should I start? Thanks, Luisa, for the question, and for the interest. So the proposed acquisition of
Icosavax really strengthened our late-stage pipeline in vaccine and immune therapies, because
the Icosavax lead asset is the combination RSV, hMPV vaccine, that is Phase III ready. And that is
important asset for two different perspective.On one side, this is a next-generation vaccine technology, within the respiratory vaccines,
because it's a protein or virus-like particle vaccine. And importance of that vaccines is that they
have a potential to be better, more effective, and more safe than a non-VLP vaccine. So basically,
what you can expect to see from those vaccines to have a higher efficacy, and a longer durability
of the effect; and at the same time, better safety profile.
The second important aspect of this is that this is a combination of RSV and hMPV vaccine, and
although, there are a number -- you can argue that there are number of RSV vaccines for the
adult population available in the market, there are neither preventative or therapeutic options for
hMPV. And maybe that's the virus that many of you even never heard about, but I can tell you that
the RSV and hMPV are basically among leading causes of the severe respiratory infections.
And if you look at the numbers of the hospitalization and infections, basically in the similar rate
between hMPV, RSV and flu. And therefore, we feel excited to use this vaccine, to on one side
accelerate and bring it to patient as soon as possible; on the other side, it's a great strategic fit,
because it really builds on AstraZeneca experience in RSV, as well as builds on our therapeutic
leverage in serving the patients that are at risk of respiratory diseases.
And just at the end, I need to mention that the deal is still subject to closing. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
So, Luisa, your second question, the R&D spend, as we've said before, we expect to keep in the
low 20s -- 20s percentage as a percentage of revenue, and our improvement will come from
SG&A. And so we're very committed to achieving this margin expansion in the mid-term, as we've
communicated for now quite some time.
We're on track and we're committed to this, and really is about leveraging the critical mass in
some of these products that are required, sorry, a lot of promotion are at scale in terms of
promotional effort. If you look at Breztri -- look at, I mean, Farxiga will be even potentially declining
in promotion. So, we can manage with this large SG&A spend. We have to manage, I should say,
so that we can actually deliver this mid-term ambition.
Now, the long-term ambition in operating margin is something we will define over the next couple
of years as we see the progression of the pipeline. Because, quite honestly, what we've seen in
the last two to three years is an expansion of our pipeline. We have a number of products now in
the pipeline, the PCSK9, the GLP-1, of course, Baxdrostat, that we believe can drive a lot more
top-line growth, than could have been anticipated, say, a couple of years ago.
So, depending on how the pipeline shapes up, we'll have to decide what our percentage margin
ambition is. But I've said many times before, and I want to be clear, what we focus on is the
absolute dollar value and the cash flow we deliver.
So if we had, and I'm not saying we will, but if we had to compromise on the future progression
of operating margin beyond the mid-30s -- if we had to compromise on the percentage, it would
be because we deliver more top line.
And the same or more absolute dollar value in operating profit and cash flow. Because ultimately,
as I keep saying, we deliver value to shareholders with dollars, not percentage, right? And so
really, if we can deliver even more growth than we had anticipated two years ago, it will drive
more profit.
And so, we'll have to adjust this over the next couple of years based on our pipeline, but with thebottom-line growth.
Do we have a microphone there?
Q - Analyst
Eric (inaudible) Stifel. Two questions first for Aradhana, coming back on one of your comments
before on CapEx. So, CapEx anticipated to grow by maybe as much as 50%. How should we think
about this going forward? Is it a one-year sharp increase or should we think about CapEx staying
around $2 billion for the next few years or thinking in percentage of revenues or how should we
model this?
And maybe the second question for you Ruud and Sharon about maybe the next wave of
innovation into the biologics in Respiratory. We see one competition coming with long-acting IL-5.
We see more interest for the TSLP targeting, also with long-acting, but also combining with other
targets. What is AstraZeneca doing for the next wave -- and to build on the existing franchise?
Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Aradhana?
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. Thank you for the question. On CapEx, if you look over the last several years, and you
benchmark us against our peers, we've actually under-invested in CapEx substantially.
And, that's also because we had other opportunities to invest and so forth. But when you look
forward, and especially, this year we've given guidance on specifically, we're investing behind a
number of products that we're bringing forward, right? So we just announced the cell therapy
facility in Rockville.
So, again, Susan talked about the whole cell therapy ambition. That requires upfront investment in
CapEx. And again, some of that is at risk, obviously. We're investing in our own API plant in Dublin,
and that's also because we're trying to become more self-sufficient as it relates to API. We
announced a inhaled facility in Qingdao, and that's to fulfill the demand that we expect for Breztri,
for example, to come out of China.
And in addition, we're investing in our ERP systems, which has, as I would say, for many, many
years been under-invested in. So there are a number of these investments that we're making
behind our pipeline. And you've seen from recent transactions, and other investments that some
of our peers are doing and have done, that it has become increasingly important to have more
and more self-reliant supply chains. And oftentimes, you see companies not being able to fulfill
their growth ambition, because of underinvestment in supply. So we're sort of getting ahead of
this curve, for the pipeline and the new opportunities.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
One of the things that this plant in Qingdao will support is our growth ambition in the Respiratory
market in China. If you look at COPD in China, it's totally underdeveloped. I mean, the treatment
is, the disease is extremely prevalent, pollution, smoking, aging. So there's a lot of COPD, but the
market is totally underdeveloped.Today we have 65 or more percent market share with Breztri in the triple segment in China. And
as the market develops, we're working very hard in expanding it. As we market develop and we
have local manufacturing, there's enormous potential for products like Breztri, and that is really
why we decided to make this investment.
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Quickly regarding, let's say, the future of the biologics, and Sharon will comment on the science in
a moment. So despite the progress we have seen in the last few years with products like
Tezspire and Fasenra, it's also a fact of life that there's still a high unmet medical need that
remains. So, still patients are suffering from multiple exacerbations in the severe asthma segment
as well as COPD.
So we're going to bet on new modes of actions. The anti-IL-33 is clearly one of the examples. I'm
sure Sharon will say a little bit more about that, but also we have an anti-TSLP in development,
and it would be quite spectacular to have an inhaled biologic, in order to help those patients
suffering from a very severe disease.
So new mode of actions, hopefully will unlock the power of those medicines and this indication.
And you will see, I think, a lot of studies in the next few years, both in asthma and COPD, in order
to generate the evidence that it can work.
A - `Sharon Barr, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
So, I'll build on that, and really continue forward with Ruud's message, in which we're proud of
both following the science and thinking about patient needs, as we create our next wave of
therapeutics. So we're aware that patients with respiratory disease, with asthma and COPD, are
first treated in the community and then progress to specialty care. And so we're creating a range
of therapeutics, that are able to meet the needs of their care providers, but also building on the
science that we increasingly understand about these diseases.
So, in asthma, building on our success with Fasenra and Tezspire, we're moving forward to
thinking about how tozorakimab can be effective there. Tozorakimab is a differentiated
therapeutic in that this anti-IL-33 is hitting both the ST2 and the RAGE-EGFR pathways. So, it's able
to address the inflammatory piece of the disease, as well as mucus production and tissue
remodeling, which we think is going to be very powerful for patients.
And then thinking about how patients are accessing their care moving into the prebiologic space
with an inhaled TSLP, which we think is a very novel mode of delivery, and will allow us to broaden
this modality to a larger number of patients, as well as an inhaled JAK inhibitor, and an oral FLAP
inhibitor. So, really expanding our science in the prebiologic space.
Thinking about COPD, which is still a major unmet medical need worldwide, building on our
success with Breztri, and again, thinking about how we're delivering an inhaled TSLP in the
prebiologic space, offering patients those options, as well as an IRAK-4 inhibitor, and again,
evaluating Mitiperstat in that space.
So we're offering patients a number of different opportunities to address their disease with their
general practitioners, and then also to access biologics and different mechanisms as they're
moving into specialty care. I hope that answers your question.
Q - AnalystSo, if I can just add on the IL-33, it looks like even physicians have seen less data than from Sanofi
and from Roche on the Phase II, you're already into Phase III. Should we think about getting more
Phase II this year, or when are you planning to give more?
A - `Sharon Barr, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
Yeah, as you know, we were so encouraged by our data, we moved right to Phase III in that
program. And we'll look forward to sharing our Phase II data as it becomes available at an
upcoming medical conference.
A - Unidentified Speaker
So there are two big ones ongoing. One is the anti-IL-33, it's also in acute respiratory failure, and
hopefully, we will see data after the next season. So, somewhere next year. And if positive,
fingers crossed, it will be the first anti-IL-33 in a completely new segment, where there's a very
big unmet medical need.
The second one, clearly our Phase III trial in the COPD space. We've added an additional arm, a
higher dose, and that trial's ongoing and we'll readout in the next two years.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Maybe we take the last question, is that okay, Andy? So Gonzalo, the question online, Gonzalo at
ABG, over to you.
Q - `Gonzalo Artiach, ABG Sundal Collier `
Hi, can you hear me?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah.
Q - `Gonzalo Artiach, ABG Sundal Collier `
Great, hi, hi, Gonzalo from ABG, Sundal Collier. I have a couple of questions. The first one is on
Airsupra. It follows the previous question from the audience. How big is the expected sales force
and commercial team for Airsupra? And what is the current level of awareness of this drug from
doctors today? Also in '23, you have been preparing for the launch of the drug. So what is the
biggest challenge, based on your experience through the year, to penetrate the market that one
could expect it to be quite conservative?
And the second question, it's on Tagrisso. It seems from your report today that the demand in
China had some issues with your hospital ordering dynamics. So could you give us some color on
that, and how much is expected to affect 2024? And the same for the Australian government
rebates looking also into '24 and beyond. Thank you.
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
So, let me try to answer all the questions in a concise way. First of all, the field force, I'm not going
to, let's say, give you complete numbers, but it's a very substantial field for us. It's substantial for
two reasons. We're detailing on the allergist as well as pulmonologist, as well as we're detailing
on a very large number of primary care physicians. Now, the good news is that field force is a
shared field force with Breztri. So we try to be very economically savvy in order to make sure thatThe awareness, we have used 2023 to create a very substantial amount of awareness. The
awareness is over 80% at the level of both the allergist and pulmonologist, and especially
allergists are the first prescribers.
We started in a soft way in the last quarter, and last quarter we had already 5,000 trialists,
especially at the specialist level for Airsupra. Once again, the biggest challenge, and that's the
last question you were asking, not the headwind, but what is the biggest challenge? The biggest
challenge is we're very happy that the three large commercial PBMs have now listed Airsupra, but
there are multiple downstream PBMs, and we still need to gain access there.
It's nothing specific to Airsupra, it's just the fact of life of the U.S. environment. So, we are working
very diligently with our market access teams in order to create that access, and equally we're
going to bid for Part D in the course of this year as well.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Dave, Tagrisso, thanks for.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice President, Oncology Business Unit `
Yeah, so on Tagrisso, within China. The fourth quarter, hospital ordering dynamics we've seen for
the last several years, and it just really has to do with hospitals managing their budgets, as they
come to the end of the calendar year, which is also the fiscal year.
So it doesn't, for me, carry any weight into outlook for 2024. In fact, as I think about how we enter
into 2024, certainly we continue to face competition, but where we don't face nearly as much
competition is in the adjuvant setting. I think it's important to remind that there's a sizable EGFR
population within China, 30% to 40%.
Also, thoracic surgeons do have the ability to prescribe systemic therapies, so therefore there's a
relatively high adjuvant treatment rate. And we had ADAURA added into the NRDL with no
discount. So I think that we come into the year with an opportunity to see growth in these really
real demand side of things, and there are many fewer competitors that are playing within that
adjuvant space, and our data I think stand out as being the most impressive there.
The Australia rebate reclassification is almost a direct offset between what you see on the
Zoladex, established rest of world beat [ph], and the Tagrisso rest of world beat. It's mostly a
one-time event, and I say mostly just because there's some carry-on through the year, but I don't
anticipate talking about it ever again.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Dave. Thank you so much for your interest and your great questions.
Maybe a few messages to close this meeting. The first one is just kind of taking into account all
the questions asked today. First one is product sales in 2024. We will still have very strong
product sales and the product sales will grow. I mean the growth of product sales is coherent,
with the guidance we gave for top line revenue. So, the clear message is we're not dependent
on collaboration revenue to grow in 2024. Our portfolio is doing very well, and all our
geographies are doing very, very well.
The second message is we're committed to this mid-term operating margin, and it is, of course,
challenging, because as you've said, we have a very big portfolio, and we have to invest in this
growth, but we will get there. We are committed to this, and we're working towards this, makinggood progress. You saw the margin expansion in one of the slides, and we'll continue in that
direction.
The third message maybe is we believe we can manage through the Part D reform, and I
mention it because I know some people have speculated this is going to be a big problem. It is a
small headwind. I mean, headwinds -- we have headwinds constantly in one market to another,
one product to another. The beauty of our pipeline and our footprint geographically is when one
product face a headwind, another product picks up.
Remember, we have 13 products that are blockbuster status today. And one geography is
struggling a bit, another one is doing better. And that's really the model as we have it. But overall,
the Part D, and we spent a lot of time -- our teams have spent a lot of time working on modeling
this. The incremental rebates that we will have to deal with, is first of all in part compensated by
the reduction of free goods, which is substantial for some of our oncology medicines.
And overall, the net effect is certainly a negative, but it's really totally manageable in the context
of our total global sales and the growth rate we're experiencing.
And finally, but importantly, we're absolutely confident we can deliver a very strong long-term
growth. And that's really what we want to show you, and hopefully, convince you at this R&D Day.
And I hope many of you will join us in the beautiful DISC, where we have tremendously talented
teams that are doing a great job. We have today a huge number of collaborations in the
Cambridge area, and this is really leading to very good productivity from our R&D efforts.
With this, thank you very much. And again, thanks for your great questions.