Y 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Andy Barnett, Head of Investor Relations `
Good morning to those joining from the UK and the US. Good afternoon to those in Central
Europe and good evening to those listening in Asia. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen to
AstraZeneca's Full Year and Q4 2024 Results Conference Call for Investors and Analysts.
Before I hand over to AstraZeneca, I'd like to read the Safe Harbor statement. The company
intends to utilize the Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. Participants on this call may make forward-looking statements with respect to
the operations and financial performance of AstraZeneca. Although we believe our expectations
are based on reasonable assumptions, by their very nature, forward-looking statements involve
risks and uncertainties and may be influenced by factors that could cause actual results to differ
materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Any forward-
looking statements made on this call reflect the knowledge and information available at the time
of this call. The company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements. Please
also carefully review the forward-looking statements disclaimer in the slide deck that
accompanies this meeting.
For those joining remotely, there will be an opportunity to ask questions after today's
presentations. (Operator Instructions) And for those attending in person, roving microphones will
be available to ask questions during the Q&A. After the presentation, you'll be invited to raiseyour hand in the air and we will bring the microphone to you. When you receive the microphone,
please state your name and organization.
I must advise you that this presentation is being recorded today. And with that, I will now hand you
over to the company.
`Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Andy. Welcome everybody. It's great to see you all here today. Next slide, please.
2024 was a very strong year for our company, I would say, a very, very amazing year, I have to say.
With total revenue up 21% and our core EPS up 19% as you can see here, a clear illustration of the
strong underlying momentum of our company.
I've also listed here 14% on core OpEx to show that we continue to work on leverage with a lower
growth of our expenses relative to the growth of our total revenue. We also delivered important
pipeline advancements with nine high-value pivotal trials readouts in 2024. Combined, these trials
represent over $5 billion in non-risk adjusted peak-year revenue. We had, of course, more
readouts than those nines, but those are the most high value readouts we had last year. At our
Investor Day in May, we communicated our ambition to deliver 20 new medicines by 2030, and
I'm pleased to report that we have new -- we have eight new medicines approved to date,
including the recent approval of Datroway, which was previously called Dato-DXd earlier this year.
So if you move to the next slide, we continue to benefit from our broad-based diverse portfolio
of products and diverse geography and we have strong growth across all our therapy areas as
you can see here in our key geographies in 2024. In the year ahead, we anticipate sustained
demand for our innovative medicines and our growth across geographies. In our results
announcement, we provided an update on ongoing investigations in China. We've received a
notification from the Shenzhen City Customs Office regarding suspected unpaid importation
taxes totaling $900,000, which to the best of our knowledge, relates to Imfinzi and Imjudo. And
so if actually AstraZeneca was found liable, a find -- a fund of between one to five times the
amount of avoided import duties could be paid -- could have to be paid by AstraZeneca. We are
continuing to cooperate with the government towards resolution of those investigations.
I'm pleased to have Iskra, we call our super Iskra, joining us today in her new role as Head of
International. I would now like to invite Iskra to share early perspectives on her new jobs and in
particular, China. Over to you, Iskra.
`Iskra Reic, Executive Vice-President, International `
Thank you, Pascal. No pressure with the nickname. I'm very honored to have assumed the
responsibilities in the international region that, as you all know, combines China, emerging
markets as well as Australia and New Zealand. Initially when I started in my new role, my focus
was really in how best to support our colleagues in China at an unsettling time for them. And I
have been really, truly impressed by the -- their continued effort and passion to deliver on the
values and our purpose. And I have a real strong confidence in the leadership that we have in
place in China.
China revenues last year had increased by 15% throughout the first nine months and overall year
2024 growth is 11% because of the quarter four decline of 3%. It is very important to note that
decline was primarily driven by year-end hospital ordering dynamic, which affected few products,
specifically Tagrisso and Farxiga as well as demand for our respiratory products that is lower
given the mild start of the winter.And while we do expect some headwinds, specifically driven by VBP inclusion for our several
medicines, we do expect the growth in China will continue. And especially in the longer term, we
see a strong opportunity and we are fully committed to continue growing in China.
If I think about emerging markets more broadly, I think you all know that we have we have been
building our presence and capabilities for many years, accelerating our regulatory approvals and
also doing our best to broaden our equitable access and we have seen strong growth over the
past several years and we do expect that growth to continue. In 2024, overall emerging market
growth was at 22%.
The unmet need across the emerging markets is unprecedented or enormous. I mean, if you
look at any therapy area, but specifically if you look at the areas where we work. Just to give you
one example, in emerging markets it's estimated that 1.8 million people will be diagnosed with
lung cancer. That represents actually 70% of the overall lung cancer diagnosis over the -- in the
globe.
The substantial unmet need coupled with the increased investment in the healthcare as well as
increased willingness to pay for the healthcare gives us an opportunity to deliver and sustain a
significant growth going forward.
Thank you. Please advance to the next slide and I will give floor back to Pascal.
`Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thank you, Iskra. So as you heard from Iskra, there is enormous opportunities in the
emerging markets, not only in China, but also outside of China. And Iskra knows the region very
well. So will definitely have a big impact on our future growth and we look forward to resolving
the issues that we've been facing in China, of course.
2025 marks the beginning of an unprecedented catalyst-rich period for our company. We have
talked about it before. We're looking forward to the results of high-value trial readouts this year
for several of our existing medicines, including, Enhertu, Datroway, Imfinzi, Breztri and Fasenra.
And importantly, we also anticipate the first Phase III data for seven NMEs, seven, including
camizestrant and baxdrostat, two medicines which each have a potential to generate more than
$5 billion in peak revenue.
The value of our pipeline has been increasing steadily and as Aradhana communicated earlier this
year, we now have more than 90, 9-0, late stage trials underway with an average non-risk-
adjusted peak-year revenue per trial of $1 billion. Looking only on the anticipated readout in 2025
shown here, taken together, this represent over $15 billion in non-risk adjusted peak-year revenue
potential. And that's why we have said a few times, by the end of this year, early 2026,
everybody will have a good sense as to our chances to get to the $80 billion. You'll see the
momentum that we have in our -- in our company, plus you will see the outcomes of those trials.
With that, please advance to the next slide and we'll hand over to Aradhana, who will take you
through our financials.
`Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Pascal, and good morning, everyone. As usual, I will start with our reported P&L. Next
slide, please. As Pascal highlighted, our company delivered very strong performance in 2024.
Total revenue grew by 25% in the fourth quarter with full-year revenues up 21%, exceeding our
twice updated guidance range of high-teens percentage increase. Product sales grew by 19% inrevenue increased by 55%, reflecting growing demand for Enhertu and Tezspire in regions where
our partners booked product sales. Collaboration revenue increased by 54%, driven primarily by
a $600 million Lynparza sales milestone recognized in the fourth quarter as well as smaller sales
milestones for Beyfortus and Koselugo.
Next slide, please. This is our core P&L. Our core product sales gross margin in 2024 was 81.2%,
in line with our indication for a slight decrease compared to full year 2023. Core operating
expense increased by 14% in 2024, well below the top line growth of 21%. Core R&D expense
increased by 19% and consistent with our prior commentary, as a percentage of total revenue,
core R&D expense was towards the upper end of the low-20s percentage range. This increase
supported multiple new trial starts, including Phase II trial starts for our weight management
portfolio and the acceleration of our cell therapy programs. It also reflects costs following the
closure of several business development transactions in 2024.
Core SG&A costs increased by 11%, reflecting continued investments behind launching brands.
SG&A decreased to 28% of total revenue on a full-year basis. Other operating income declined
significantly as we booked more than $700 million in 2023 relating to the update of the
contractual agreement on Beyfortus as well as $250 million relating to the US divestment of
Pulmicort. Core EPS of $8.21 represents 19% growth, placing us at the top end of our full-year
guidance.
Next slide, please. Our net cash flow from operating activities increased by $1.5 billion in 2024.
CapEx of $2.2 billion was broadly in line with the indication of a 50% projected increase over
2023. This includes both tangible and software-related intangible assets. We completed a
number of business development transactions in 2024, including the acquisition of Amolyt,
Icosavax and Fusion and incurred total debt payments close to $7 billion. We anticipate deal
payments relating to past transactions of approximately $3 billion in 2025.
Net debt increased by $2.1 billion to $24.6 billion, which is the level we are comfortable with. Given
the growth in our EBITDA, our current net debt to EBITDA ratio stands at 1.5 times. We increased
the full year 224 dividend to $3.10 per share and announced this morning that we intend to
increase our full year 2025 dividend to $3.20.
Today, we issued guidance for 2025 and expect total revenue to increase by a high single digit
percentage and core EPS to increase by low double digit percentage. We anticipate our strong
growth momentum to continue in 2025, more than offsetting the headwinds that we've
previously indicated. These dynamics also adversely impact our product sales gross margin and
we anticipate an incremental 60 basis points to 70 basis points decline driven by the net effect of
the IRA in the US, the anticipated inclusion in VBP of Farxiga, Lynparza in China, as well as the
growth of our partnered products that have lower gross margins.
Operating leverage remains a priority for our company. We continue to anticipate SG&A costs to
grow at a slower pace than revenue. We are beginning to see benefits from the redeployment of
our global footprint and continue to optimize our commercial investments across key disease
areas to support new launches.
R&D expenses are expected to remain in the low 20s percentage range of total revenue. Our full
year guidance is as usual at constant exchange rates. Based on average January 2025 rates, we
anticipate a low single-digit adverse FX impact on total revenue and a mid-single-digit adverse
impact on core EPS.
The recent strengthening of the US dollar also affects our core operating margin percentage and2025 FX rates compared to average rates for full year 2024 and roughly 50 basis points if
compared to average FX rates in first quarter 2024.
Please turn to the next slide. In 2025, we expect expenditure on tangible and software-related
intangible assets to increase by approximately 50%, driven by manufacturing expansion projects
and investments in systems and technology that will support our long-term growth ambitions.
Today, we have a diverse and resilient supply chain with 26 production facilities in 16 countries
that afford us optionality and agility while addressing global demand for our medicines. The
increased manufacturing investments we are making include investment into next-generation
capabilities for both small molecules and large molecules as well as transformative technologies
such as ADCs, cell therapies and oligonucleotides globally.
Already in progress are a new end-to-end ADC manufacturing site in Singapore, a cell therapy
manufacturing site in Rockville, Maryland and an API facility in Dublin, Ireland and a site in Qingdao,
China for inhaled therapies. In November last year, we also announced several investments in the
US, including a specialty manufacturing facility in Texas. All of these are multi-year projects that
illustrate how we are supporting our growing pipeline, including potential drivers of growth post
2030.
Lastly, we are upgrading our data and ERP systems to set the data foundation to support our
growth and enable us to more fully leverage innovation in AI and make our business more
efficient.
With that, please turn to the next slide, and I will hand over to Dave, who will take you through the
oncology performance.
`David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Oncology Business Unit `
Thank you very much Aradhana. Next slide, please. So in 2024, oncology delivered total revenues
of $22.4 billion, which was an impressive increase of 24% with key medicines surpassing new
multi-blockbuster milestones with Tagrisso achieving over $6.5 billion, Lynparza over $3 billion in
product sales, Imfinzi and Imjudo combined approaching $5 billion, Calquence and HER2
achieving over $3 billion and almost $2 billion in full year revenues respectively. This strong growth
really does signal clear progress on our mission to deliver medicines with potential to transform
outcomes for patients globally. Turning now to fourth quarter performance for our key medicines.
Tagrisso global revenues grew 21%, reflecting strong growth across all indications, partly offset by
the customary fourth quarter hospital ordering dynamics that you heard about earlier in China.
In the frontline setting, Tagrisso achieved over 75% market share globally with close to 85%
market share in the US. We continue to make steady gains in the adjuvant setting with Adora and
saw encouraging early launch uptake for LAURA in early stage unresectable lung cancer.
Calquence total revenues increased 20% in the fourth quarter, driven by sustained BTK inhibitor
leadership in the frontline CLL setting and continued international expansion in the face of pretty
fierce competition.
In the fourth quarter, Imfinzi and Imjudo delivered 18% and 28% growth respectively, reflecting
continued demand across lung and liver cancer in the US as well as accelerating adoption of
TOPAZ and HIMALAYA in Europe. As expected, we saw continued impact on established rest of
world revenues following the two mandatory price reductions in Japan that took effect in 2024.
Lynparza achieved global sales of over $3 billion in 2024, triggering receipt of a $600 million
milestone payment in the fourth quarter, which was recorded in collaboration revenue. As theestablished standard-of-care across HER2-positive and HER2-low metastatic breast cancer,
Enhertu delivered total revenue growth of 54% in the fourth quarter, partly offset by stock
compensation following recent NRDL listings in China for DESTINY-Breast03 and DESTINY-
Breast04.
Last week, we received FDA approval and NCCN guideline inclusion for DESTINY-Breast06, which
will further drive adoption in the ultra-low setting. Truqap delivered $163 million in fourth quarter
revenues, which partially benefited from stocking following the launch of the blister packs in the
US and I'm pleased to report Truqap is now the market leader in the second-line biomarker
altered patient population.
We received a number of landmark regulatory approvals since third quarter results, including US
and Japan approvals for Datroway in HR-positive HER2-negative breast cancer, US approval for
Calquence in mantle cell lymphoma, Imfinzi in limited-stage small-cell lung cancer and European
approval for Tagrisso in early stage unresectable lung cancer.
And finally, we received priority review designations for Datroway in late-line EGFR-positive lung
cancer based on the TROPION-Lung05 study and Imfinzi and muscle invasive bladder cancer
signaling the potential value of our rapidly advancing oncology pipeline.
Next slide, please. So coming off this remarkable year of growth, we see continued momentum
for our oncology medicines in 2025, particularly Tagrisso, Enhertu and Imfinzi despite the
incremental impact from Part-D redesign and the anticipated inclusion of Lynparza in VBP Batch 11
in China. Tagrisso is positioned to remain the market leader in frontline EGFR mutated non-small
cell lung cancer, and we expect continued expansion of Adora and LAURA in early-stage disease
in the year ahead.
Longer term combination trials are designed to reinforce Tagrisso as the backbone TKI,
addressing late-line met-driven disease resistance with SAFFRON and SAVANNAH and
investigating novel ADC combinations with TROPION-Lung14 and 15. For Enhertu, we anticipate
new international launches for HER2-positive and HER2-low breast cancer as well as further
expansion from DESTINY-Breast06 to drive growth over the course of this year. Moreover, the
HER2-positive breast cancer trials reading out this year represent the next meaningful leg of
growth for Enhertu.
On Imfinzi, following positive Phase III readouts in lung and bladder last year, we anticipate
ADRIATIC, AEGEAN and NIAGARA launches to initiate the next wave of Imfinzi growth bolstered
by continued adoption of HIMALAYA in liver cancer. And beyond '25, we expect bladder and GI to
unlock further expansion for Imfinzi and Imjudo.
We expect Calquence to remain the leading BTK inhibitor in frontline CLL supported by
accelerating volume over the balance of the year. However, we do anticipate gross to net
pressure both from Part-D redesign and where we've taken contracting decisions to secure
preferred formulary access in the United States.
We expect meaningful demand growth upon the approval of AMPLIFY, which will allow us to grow
into the finite therapy segment, which represents nearly half of the CLL frontline market today.
And finally, for Truqap, our most recently launched medicine, we see continued market leadership
in the core second line biomarker altered population.
We're set to deliver another year of strong growth, which is supported by continued global
demand for our medicines as well as meaningful indication expansion opportunities.And with that, please advance to the next slide, and I will hand it over to Susan to cover R&D.
`Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice-President, Oncology R&D `
Thank you, Dave. So, 2025 is shaping up to be a very exciting year across our oncology pipeline.
We look to maximize the reach of our innovative medicines across lung, breast, GI and bladder
cancers and present additional data for some of our transformative technologies, including our IO
bispecifics, ADCs and T-cell engagers.
In the second half of 2025, we plan to announce the high-level results from the Phase II AVANZAR
study of Datroway in combination with Imfinzi and platinum chemotherapy in patients with first-
line non-small cell lung cancer. AVANZAR will be the first of five Phase III trials in frontline non-small
cell lung cancer to read out and has potential to not only confirm combination efficacy with IO, but
also serve as the first prospective validation of the TROP2 QCS NMR biomarker. Importantly, we
recently amended the primary endpoint to focus on the non-squamous population and to look at
the benefit in both TROP2 positive non-squamous and the broader non-squamous population,
which we believe increases the probability of the trial's success.
Additionally, we expect results from the TROPION-Breast02 trial of Datroway in triple-negative
breast cancer in the first-half of this year. In 2025, Enhertu will move into earlier lines of treatment
for HER2 positive breast cancer. DESTINY-Breast09 aims to bring Enhertu to the first line
metastatic setting with both monotherapy and datopotamab [ph] combination options. DESTINY-
Breast05, and 11 are the first two readouts for Enhertu in the early breast cancer setting, where
the opportunity for cure is even higher.
Our Imfinzi bladder and gastric programs continue to advance with readouts for VOLGA, which
builds on NIAGARA, the combination of enfortumab vedotin and Imfinzi plus/minus Imjudo in
patients with muscle invasive bladder cancer with POTOMAC in non-muscle invasive bladder
cancer and with MATTERHORN in gastric cancer.
Together, these trials represent meaningful new opportunities for Datroway, Enhertu and Imfinzi
as we look to expand the reach of these transformative medicines. This year, we'll also report
Phase III results from a very promising NME in our pipeline, camizestrant, which has potential to be
the best-in-class next-generation oral SERD. As a complete estrogen receptor antagonist,
camizestrant not only binds to the receptor inhibiting transcriptional activity, but it also induces
degradation of the receptor itself.
In contrast, aromatase inhibitors only reduce production of the ligand estrogen, reducing ligand
driven transcriptional activity, but leaving the estrogen receptor in place. This dual action of
camizestrant gives us confidence that it can provide greater benefit to patients than aromatase
inhibitors regardless of ESR1 mutation status. Our confidence is supported by the data from the
Phase II SERENA-2 trial, where we saw a similar median progression-free survival of six to eight
months with camizestrant regardless of ESR1 status and a benefit over fulvestrant in head-to-
head data with a hazard ratio of 0.58 in the ITT population and 0.33 in the ESR1 mutant
population.
These data taken together with the low discontinuation rates, low rates of GI toxicities, which can
be bothersome to patients and the ability to combine camizestrant with all three major CDK4/6
inhibitors, these together drive our confidence across the SERENA and CAMBRIA studies.
SERENA-6 is the first Phase III trial to read out and investigates switching the endocrine partner of
any CDK4/6 inhibitor from an aromatase inhibitor to camizestrant on emergence of an ESR1
mutation during first-line treatment.The goal of SERENA-6 is to extend the duration of benefit in first line. ESR1 mutations are
treatments acquired with low prevalence at the time of metastatic diagnosis, around 5%,
increasing to around 40% of the time of disease progression at the end of first-line treatment.
SERENA-6 addresses the pool of patients currently on first-line aromatase inhibitor plus CDK4/6
inhibitor treatment who have these emerging ESR1 mutations without disease progression on
clinical scan. And we estimate this to be around 30% of all endocrine sensitive first-line patients.
While SERENA-6 focuses on these first-line patients that have emergence of ESR1 mutations,
SERENA-4 targets the broader first-line population. Those patients with newly-diagnosed
hormone receptor positive endocrine sensitive metastatic breast cancer and investigates upfront
combination of camizestrant and palbociclib.
Similarly, we have two ongoing adjuvant trials, CAMBRIA-1, which looks as a switch strategy to
extend treatment after two to five years of endocrine therapy with or without a CDK4/6 inhibitor.
And CAMBRIA-2, which investigates the upfront combination of camizestrant with or without
abemaciclib. We look forward to updating you on our camizestrant clinical program, which is
designed to support our ambition to establish this new endocrine therapy as a backbone in
hormone receptor positive HER2 negative breast cancer.
Finally, we continue to progress our transformative technologies into Phase III. We now have nine
ongoing Phase IIIs for our IO bispecifics and plan to share early data for combinations of
rilvegostomig with Datroway and Enhertu later this year. Last year, we progressed AZD0901, our
Claudin-18.2 ADC into Phase III. And this year, we plan to advance our B7H4 targeted ADC with
our proprietary linker TOPO1 payload, (inaudible) otherwise known as PSAM. If you find (inaudible)
difficult to pronounce into a Phase III trial in endometrial cancer.
In addition, we recently initiated the SOUNDTRACK-F1 trial, our first Phase III trial for the
CD19/CD3 T-cell engager, AZD0486 in follicular lymphoma. These transformative technologies
help support delivery of sustained growth beyond 2030.
And with that, please advance to the next slide and I'll pass over to Ruud to cover
biopharmaceuticals performance.
`Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice-President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Thank you so much, Susan. Our biopharmaceuticals medicines saw another very strong year of
performance in 2024 with total revenue growing 21% to $21.9 billion. In the fourth quarter,
biopharmaceuticals growth was 24%. R&I grew by 28%, an impressive performance despite
softer demand in China due to the mild start to the winter season for respiratory viruses. CVRM
grew 17% with strong Farxiga growth of 22%, which was partly offset by year-end hospital budget
dynamics in China. Alongside Fasenra and Symbicort, Tezspire became the third blockbuster
medicine in our respiratory portfolio with over $1 billion in combined global end-market sales.
Soon, we can expect to see a fourth blockbuster on that list as Breztri delivered over $0.25 billion
in revenue in the fourth quarter. Given strong global demand and increased production capacity
for Beyfortus, we recorded a sales related milestone payment of $111 million in the fourth quarter.
The launch of Wainua in ATTR polyneuropathy is progressing very well and we are excited about
the longer-term opportunity in the broader ATTR cardiomyopathy indication.
And following the commercial launch of Airsupra early last year, we have seen impressive volume
growth and we continue to work on broadening the access for patients.
Next slide, please. We look forward to another year of strong performance in 2025, despite the
anticipated Brilinta loss of exclusivity and the potential VBP inclusion for Farxiga and Roxadustat.Outside of China, we expect to see further growth for Farxiga due to the continued market
leadership in the fast-growing SGLT2 class and see potential for increased adoption with millions
of patients still not receiving guideline directed therapy. Lokelma surpassed $0.5 billion in total
revenue last year and there's a growing body of evidence showing that Lokelma can help CKD
and heart failing patients with hyperkalemia while maintaining guideline directive therapy.
We expect continued growth with further adoption and longer duration of treatment due to
demonstrated real-world clinical benefits. Breztri has grown rapidly in the last two years and has
gained over two-thirds of the market in China, where COPD is a leading cause of death. We
anticipate continued growth in China following the recent addition of COPD to the country's
national public health program.
Our biological respiratory medicines have a strong competitive position in the growing market.
Biological penetration in asthma remains relatively low with potential for sustained long-term
growth and the COPD biological market is still immature. In 2025, we anticipate continued growth
from our biologic portfolio in asthma and we're looking forward to the upcoming RESOLUTE
Phase III readout for Fasenra in COPD. Finally, Saphnelo has steadily gained share among
systemic lupus dermatosis patients treated with intravenous infusions and remains the leading IV
biologic in several markets.
Subcutaneous biologics represent more than half of the market for SLD today. The ongoing TULIP
SC trial is studying a subcutaneous formulation of Saphnelo and has the potential to open a new
market opportunity. Our biopharmaceuticals portfolio is poised for continued growth in 2025. And
I will now hand over to Sharon to discuss the latest developments from the biopharmaceuticals
pipeline. Next slide, please.
`Sharon Barr, Executive Vice-President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
Thanks, Ruud. So 2024 was an exciting year in biopharma and in 2025, the momentum continues
as we rapidly advance both indication expansion and NME pipeline opportunities. In respiratory
and immunology, we are building an industry-leading portfolio in asthma and COPD with the
opportunity to expand our presence in these diseases where high unmet medical need remains
with key indication expansion opportunities this year as well as NMEs in late-stage development.
Starting with Breztri, our triple combination inhaler already approved in COPD, we have the
opportunity to improve care for people suffering from uncontrolled asthma with a new treatment
option. In the Phase III KALOS and LOGOS
Trials, Breztri has the potential to demonstrate asthma control by improved lung function versus
current dual combination ICS/LABA treatment, and we look forward to these data readouts in the
first half of this year.
Fasenra our IL-5 monoclonal antibody represents another meaningful opportunity to expand our
reach beyond severe eosinophilic asthma and EGPA into COPD with the Phase III RESOLUTE trial.
Characterized by airway blockage and long-term respiratory symptoms, COPD remains the third
leading cause of death globally.
Many patients are not well-managed and remain at risk of exacerbations that increase the risk of
hospitalization and mortality. With our strong foundation in biologics, we are seeking to address a
broad spectrum of this highly complex and heterogeneous disease through differentiated
mechanisms of action to address the underlying inflammatory pathways that may trigger COPD.As a key contributor to inflammation, eosinophils are potent effector cells that are believed to
play a role in COPD. The Phase III RESOLUTE trial for Fasenra addresses a population with
eosinophilic COPD with baseline blood eosinophils of 300 or above, which represents about
30% of the market.
To further broaden our reach in COPD, we look forward to initiating a Phase III Tezspire trial later
this year in patients with eosinophils greater than 150. And lastly, with our IL-33 monoclonal
antibody tozorakimab, we look forward to the results from our Phase III LUNATA program next
year, which is targeting a COPD population irrespective of eosinophil levels and smoking status.
Tozorakimab received FDA fast-track designation at the end of 2024, emphasizing the high
unmet medical need for this disease. With a robust pipeline of differentiated mechanisms, we
have an opportunity to transform outcomes in COPD.
Now turning your focus to the right hand side of the slide. In CVRM, we eagerly await the first
Phase III data from baxdrostat, our novel aldosterone synthase inhibitor. Both as a monotherapy
and in combination with dapagliflozin, baxdrostat represents a multi-blockbuster opportunity
across areas where patients urgently need new options. In the second half of this year, we will
see data from the Phase III BaxHTN trial assessing baxdrostat as a monotherapy in uncontrolled
or resistant hypertension.
We have already seen encouraging blood pressure reduction in Phase II. The PK profile supports
24-hour systolic blood pressure control, which we are looking to confirm in the Bax24 trial also
reading out in the second half of 2025. The Phase III combination trial of baxdrostat with
dapagliflozin, BaxDuo-Arctic for those living with kidney disease and high blood pressure was also
initiated this past year. This reinforces our unique ability for multi-mechanism combinations to
address interrelated diseases across our CVRM portfolio.
Lastly, as we continue to build the next wave of transformative medicines in CVRM, I am excited
to share that we have recently completed the Phase IIb PURSUIT trial for AZD0780, our oral
PCSK9 inhibitor, and we look forward to sharing the data at the American College of Cardiology
Annual Meeting next month.
With that, please move to the next slide and I will hand over to Marc to cover our rare disease
portfolio.
`Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer, Alexion and Chief Strategy Officer, AstraZeneca `
Thank you, Sharon and next slide, please. The rare disease delivered total revenue of $8.8 billion
in 2024, up 16% year-over-year, driven by an increased patient demand and launches in new
markets. Total revenue growth included a 2% benefit from a sales milestone for Koselugo
received in the fourth quarter.
In the quarter, Ultomiris grew 33%, driven by neurology indications with the vast majority of
growth coming from generalised myasthenia gravis patients who were naive to branded
treatments. Outside of emerging market, Soliris revenue continued to decline due to the
successful conversion to Ultomiris, some competition and in Europe biosimilar pressure.
As a reminder, we expect biosimilars to enter the US market in March of this year. Beyond the
complement, Strensiq and Koselugo grew 37% and 97% respectively, driven by continued patient
demand, new launches and a favorable tender order timing in emerging markets. 2024 was
another year of double-digit growth for rare disease medicine and we see momentum continuing
in 2025.Can I advance to the next slide? Ultomiris continued to grow, driven primarily by neurology
indications, including patients who are new to branded medicine and Soliris switch patients, as
well as further market expansion. We indicated peak-year sales for Ultomiris to be above $5
billion with contribution from both existing and new indication opportunities, including HSCT-TMA,
CSA-AKI and IgAN.
For Strensiq we anticipate further adoption supported by new hypophosphatasia guidelines,
which have led to an increased disease awareness, diagnosis rates and accelerated new patient
starts. As we continue to launch Strensiq in new market globally, we are focused on disease
education, which prepare markets ahead of the next-generation efzimfotase alfa launch.
Patient demand and geographic expansion continued to drive Koselugo growth in pediatric
patients with NF1-PN and following the positive Phase III trial results in adults with NF1-PN, we
expect KOMET to drive growth beyond 2025. We are well placed to deliver another year of
strong growth, supported by global demand for rare disease medicine as well as meaningful
indication expansion opportunities.
Please advance to the next slide. We anticipate 2025 to be a catalyst-rich year, unlocking the next
wave of innovative rare disease medicine. We expect five Phase III readouts across multiple
indications, four of which for new molecular entities. Following Phase II data, we believe,
eneboparatide a PTH receptor agonist, has the potential to normalize serum calcium levels,
decrease urinary calcium and preserve bone mineral density, all clinical priorities of
hypoparathyroidism.
Novel depleter anselamimab has been developed to remove toxic light chain amyloid fibrils that
accumulate in the heart and kidneys. In light chain amyloidosis, these fibrils cause systemic and
progressive organ damage, hospitalization and high mortality when accumulated. Efzimfotase
alfa, our next-generation enzyme replacement therapy is being studied in a broad
hypophosphatasia population. With an improved profile, which allows for lower dosing and lower
frequency, it has the potential to address six times the patient population versus Strensiq.
Third-generation C5 inhibitor gefurulimab, a VHH that allows for weekly subcutaneous
administration has the potential to expand our reach in myasthenia gravis to treat an earlier and
broader population.
And lastly, in -- for Ultomiris in HSCT-TMA, the product has the potential to address life-
threatening complication of stem-cell transplant and represent the first indication expansion
opportunity for Ultomiris beyond the Soliris label. These trials combined represent a significant
peak year revenue potential, marking a meaningful contribution to the rare disease portfolio.
And with this, I will hand over to Pascal.
`Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Marc, and I will try to conclude quickly so we can move to the Q&A session. Next slide,
please. So as you can see here, we are making very important step towards the achievement of
our strategic ambitions, in particular, the $80 billion sales in 2030 and we are progressing high-
value readouts that will unlock further growth.
So if we move to the next slide, this is an important slide because it really shows that the
investments we are making and of course, those investments create R&D budget expansion, but
those are investments that are not only supporting the growth of our existing and late-stageportfolio, but we're also building capabilities and capacity with potentially transformative
technology shown here.
Our goal is to be a growth company until 2030, but also beyond 2030 and anticipate today what
will shape the future of medicine and how we will actually continue to grow despite patent
expiries that may happen post 2030. And with this, I'm really pleased to report that we're making
very good progress in all of these areas with multiple pivotal trials planned or initiated for our
ADCs, our bispecifics and most recently our CAR-T and our T-cell engager programs. These
transformative technologies have the potential to drive sustained growth beyond 2030.
Next slide, please. We continue to make progress against all the ambitions outlined at our
Investor Day in May 2024. We set our sights on $80 billion in total revenue by 2030 as we
communicated at the Investor Day. By the end of this year, early 2026 latest, we'll have a very
good idea as to whether this ambition can be achieved. We're also working hard to drive
operating leverage throughout our company and we continue to make good progress towards
achieving our ambition for mid 30%s operating margin in 2026.
And finally and most importantly, we have actually delivered eight new medicines toward our goal
of 20 by 2030 and that demonstrates our ability as a team to deliver life-changing medicines for
patients globally.
Please move to the next slide. As Andy mentioned at the start of the call, please limit the number
of questions you ask to allow others a fair chance to participate. I must say this is what I say each
time, but I'm never very successful with that one. But for those online, please use the raise on
raise hand function on Zoom and with that, let's move to the first question. Thank you.
Questions And Answers
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Let's start with this table and we go around the table and move to the next table. Yeah, James,
maybe can start.
Q - `James Gordon, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Thanks for taking the question. `James Gordon, Analyst, J.P. Morgan from J.P. Morgan. I'll stick to one theme, which will
be China. So a couple of questions on China. So one would be, so revenue is down 3% in Q4, but
how did it evolve during the quarter? So what did it look like before there was the investigation
on November 5 versus afterwards? And more recently, like the start of this year, are things
getting better or worse in China?
Also on China, so for 2025, so you've given us a group guide, but what does that assume for
China? And I can see we've got Lynparza and probably Farxiga a VBP. So should we assume that
China is going to decline overall, not just because of the investigation, but also VBP, but EM
overall still grows, how to think about that?
And then just finally on China. So I think there have been investigations going for some time. But
I've not seen any provision for a fine or other penalty in your disclosures. So how should we read
that? Does that mean you don't think there is likelihood that you're going to have to pay
something material or is it just you wouldn't provision for it at this time? When would you have to
have a provision for something?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `Thank you, James. So let me start with the last question and then for the business developmental
-- business goals, I'll ask Iskra to comment and maybe Aradhana to take the guidance question.
So we actually disclose things as we learn about this investigation. An important piece is that we
disclose anything that we believe will have a potential liability dimension. We disclosed this in our
release and you could -- I would like to refer you to this and look at it.
So if you look at these things in turn, first of all, the illegal importation we've communicated $0.9
million of avoided import duties to the best of our ability, to the best of our knowledge as we
said it relates to Imfinzi and Imjudo. The fine that could be associated with that if AstraZeneca is
found liable for it would be one to five times the amount of avoided import duty, so five times --
maximum five times the $0.9 million.
Now it is possible that Enhertu, for instance, will be affected as well because those products --
the products that are affected are essentially products that were approved in Hong Kong, not yet
approved on the mainland and there is a limited period of time during which patients actually can
totally legally go to Hong Kong and get their medicines.
But of course, some people found the opportunity here to take these products from Hong Kong
and deliver them to the patients on the mainland and that is illegal. Patients can go get their
medicines. Other people are not allowed to do the transportation, if you want, of those
medicines to patients.
So we know Enhertu of course had a period of time when it was approved in Hong Kong, not on
the Mainland. So that could be another one. But again, the turnover associated with Enhertu was a
bit bigger than Imfinzi, but it's not going to be massively bigger. So that's the illegal importation
case and that's basically what we know in terms of the so-called fraud case.
Again, just like to remind you, we disclose in the litigation section anything that could have a
liability dimension for the company. Now some of you would like to, I'm sure understand better
the sort of individual responsibility, corporate responsibility, legal aspects as it relates to a fraud
case like this.
My best advice is to suggest that you contact one of the Magic Circle firms here in London, make
sure you to get advice, independent advice from them. Make sure you ask a firm that has an
affiliate in China, or partner in China that has a license to comment on Chinese laws because
global firms are not allowed to comment on Chinese law.
So if you want a precise reliable answer, you have to get it from someone who has a license in
China. So ask them and you'll get a, I believe, a very clear answer to that question and that's
really the most we can actually talk about this case.
If I go back to your first question, James, the sales in Q -- at the end of Q -- at the end of last year
in Q4, I mean, when people -- when hospitals manage their inventory, manage their budgets,
they start doing this in November, December. So that's what we saw and that's what typically you
see. But the biggest thing is that to keep in mind is that the impact was very much our respiratory
products and into January, we see, I think a pretty good trend, but of course, the respiratory
products are still affected.
Iskra, over to you and then maybe Aradhana.
A - `Iskra Reic, Executive Vice-President, International `
Yeah. Thanks, Pascal. So thanks for the question. So I think the -- as Pascal mentioned, I mean,same trend in the respiratory products given the mild winter and it's interesting to look at
because it's because of the mild winter, clearly, you have a lower level of the flu infections that
drives lower rate of the hospitalization and particularly in China, those products, Pulmicort in
particular, are really used for the hospitalization and exacerbation and if you look at the overall
inhaled market, you will also see the significant slowdown in growth.
Quarter four growth of the inhaled market was 9% versus 23% in quarter three. So I would argue
that's a very clear dynamic that you can see throughout the quarter. As you know, the winter -- the
winter is back and the flu infections in China are quite up. So you would -- you would argue that
you may expect the respiratory portfolio performing as you -- as expected as normal in the
quarter one.
I think the second mentioned dynamic was the hospital capping and I think it's -- you see the
similar trend. I would argue the same trend as you saw last year for the top 10 brands in the --
listed in the hospitals in China. The only difference is that this year that effect was a bit bigger
because more hospitals were introducing the hospital capping, trying to manage their budgets
and the pressure at the end of the year. But overall it's looking -- looking in 2025, obviously, early
days, but you do expect the portfolio to continue to grow. We have a few good news in the start
of the year with Enhertu being included in NRDL with eight other renewals in NRDL and the
regulatory approvals of the two new indications for Tagrisso and Lynparza. So despite the
headwinds that we expect from VBP inclusion in Farxiga, Lynparza and roxadustat, we do expect
the rest of the portfolio to continue to grow.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, the biggest headwind really is VBP for (inaudible). Iskra, maybe you wanted to say a little bit
about the team where they are at. I think it's important to get a sense for potential momentum
into 2025, but also our interactions with the medical community in China.
A - `Iskra Reic, Executive Vice-President, International `
Yeah, I just spent four, five weeks in Shanghai and I was really impressed on one side, as I
mentioned in my remarks, on the commitment and -- of the team. Equally I was impressed that it
was unsettling moment in November and December, but I was really impressed how with the
stability that we introduced in December and a clear focus on what the team needs to do that
both in the office and on the ground are very much focused and keen to continue doing what we
do best and that is delivering our innovative medicines to the patients in China.
And I think the message of the company commitment and our belief that our strategy in China is
the right one that we believe in the -- in our ability to deliver for patients, but equally to use a
growing innovation in China, for China and for global is very much -- landed very well internally as
well as externally.
I think from my external interactions with many different stakeholders there, I think it's also clear
that our partners and stakeholders in China are you willing and happy that we will continue to
invest and partner with them in order to bring innovations together.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Aradhana?
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `Sure. So on the guidance, obviously, the China is included in our guidance. We do assume growth
from our underlying brands as well as the NRDL inclusions that Iskra talked about. But at the same
time, there is headwind from VBP, again, three large products, obviously being included in VBP
this year as well as some disruption from some of the ongoing investigation and deemed stability
and so forth.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Aradhana.
Q - `Luisa Hector, Analyst, Berenberg Capital Markets `
Thank you. `Luisa Hector, Analyst, Berenberg Capital Markets from Berenberg. I have just one more on China and then some on the
outlook. So for China, can you then confirm that there have been no notable changes in your
market shares for key drugs in China? And then for the outlook, perhaps just to quantify, if you
can, the Part D impact for 2025 redesign. I think I only heard mention of Calquence from Dave,
but perhaps other products to be aware of.
And Aradhana, you mentioned$3 billion of deal-related payments. I'm just curious whether you
can provide any color on the components and should we assume that the majority of those come
essentially with success, so pipeline success, sales success? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Luisa. And I can see that totally failing once more, three questions at a time. So should
we start Iskra with you and then Dave you cover.
A - `Iskra Reic, Executive Vice-President, International `
So a quick response on the market share. As I mentioned, the inhale market is -- I mean the
whole market obviously slowed down. So clearly, you will not see many -- any major difference in
market share. With Farxiga, you will see some difference and the reason -- some decline in the
end of the year and the reason is that the hospital capping that I mentioned really applies only for
the 10 top performing brands. Clearly, as you know, Farxiga is competing with many different
SGLT2 generics in the China market. So in December due to the capping, you will see some
decline. We saw the same trend as I mentioned last year and we would expect that to bounce
back.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
But net net for important products like, Tagrisso et cetera, so far we have seen no impact. Of
course, we looked at that because our market share is the best way to actually assess whether
you're impacted. I mean, the market moves up and down. We see no impact at all, yeah. Early
days and so far we only have hospital data. We need retail data. It takes more time to get there.
But it's very encouraging to see our market share actually not moving differently from what we
would expect. Dave, you cover Part D?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Oncology Business Unit `
Yes, please. So I think the first point Luisa, on Part D is that the IRA, we've continually said we think
is manageable, it's part of guidance, it's in our outlook. So it's built in. So why do we think it's
manageable? Well, first and foremost, it predominantly affects our oral oncology portfolio. There
is some biopharmaceuticals and rare disease impact. But in terms of where we see the greatest
impact, it's on oral oncolytics.And there is a downside pressure of the increased manufacturer liability that now is happening in
terms of picking up what was previously catastrophic. But there is a partial offset and we saw that
happening in 2004 from improved adherence and compliance on medicines and also lower free
drug utilization and that volume is directly a result of improved patient affordability. And so that's
the first dynamic for manageable. I think the second thing that's most important here is that we
just look at the growth opportunities that we've got in '25, right? So, Tagrisso we have continued
opportunities, Adora, LAURA, FLORA 2, Imfinzi, HIMALAYA, ADRIATIC, CASPIAN, NIAGARA,
Enhertu, DB-06, DB-04, DB-03and Truqap, those are all in hand. And so it allows us to be able to
work through the headwind that we're getting in from IRA and that's why it's included within our
outlook.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Aradhana?
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
So just to build on Dave's point, the guidance, especially the gross margin guidance that I
provided in terms of 60 basis points to 70 basis points, that does include the net effect of the
IRA. Again, we haven't given an absolute quantification, but that as well as the VBP as well as
some of the impact on biosimilars, that's included in the gross margin indication.
As it relates to the $3 billion for past deal related payments, yes, most of them are success
based. But success could not necessarily be a Phase III readouts. Some of them have already
happened with Daiichi, for example, but it could also be progression events. So when a product
moves into Phase II or into Phase III, so which is also success based because obviously we
wouldn't move them into the next phase if you weren't confident.
So yes, all of those related to -- some of it is Daiichi, but also Symbicor, again, if (inaudible) reads
out positive again, the CD19, CD3. So it's a multitude of smaller payments that are all progression
or success-based.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Just since we talked about Part D, keep in mind that basically the headwinds we have in 2025 are,
of course, IRA, two is VBP China, we mentioned it. Another couple of smaller ones, Brilinta patent
expiry and the usual maybe more intense this year cottage industry of price cuts and rebates and
whatever in Europe. But the momentum in the portfolio and then the new indications we hope to
launch certainly will continue to support our growth and move through these challenges in '25.
This one last question on the table.
Q - `Jo Walton, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you. `Jo Walton, Analyst, UBS from UBS. A couple of clarifications, I think. Aradhana, I didn't catch what you
said about the gross margin impact for 2025. Could you just tell us again what you're expecting
to happen there? You spoke very quickly. And is that something that we should continue to see
through into '26 as well? Or is it just a one-time impact? And just to go back to Part D again, if we
can, you say you -- are you already seeing increased adherence? In 2024, the payment levels
were lower, but they aren't as low as they're going to be in 2025. So are you anticipating a further
improvement in adherence?
And is there any chance of things being even better in the first quarter because of the all-you-lump-sum in January? So just whether we should be seeing anything in the short-term? Thank you.
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
So I'll address the gross margin point. So the indication is more around the -- so I said 60 basis
points to 70 basis points impact on gross margins. And a lot of that comes from the Part D, the
net effect of the Part D payments. If you want to think about it, again, it's not a gross-to-net
discount, but it does affect what you pay off of your revenue base. So that's included in there.
And when I say VBP, again, VBP, when you get your price for VBP and their stock compensation
and so forth, it affects your price, right? It doesn't affect necessarily your volume. There's some
impact on volume, but you hope that once there's a reset on volume, obviously generics will take
some share and then you'll start growing from there, which is what we've seen in other VBP
situations.
So again, that impacts your gross margin because your price is basically reset and I talked a little
bit about Pascal said a whole bunch of other price actions, which you see in Europe and other
countries. Soliris Biosimilar is another example, right, where we have been transitioning more and
more of the market to Ultomiris.
Again, Ultomiris is at a 30% lower price than Soliris is, so as more market shifts to Ultomiris, again,
it's slightly different -- slightly lower gross margin than Soliris. So it's all of those factors that -- and
again, I don't think they're one-time factors, but that's sort of what we expect to point to [ph].
Dave.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Oncology Business Unit `
Thanks, Aradhana. Jo, so yes, in 2024, in the oral oncology portfolio, we saw both a reduction in
free goods as well as an improvement in adherence or we -- sometimes we talk about that as
abandonment rates and that came as a result of the co-pay cap being set at 3,300 last year.
Now obviously, we didn't have the liability that we needed to pay for within that. So 2024 was a
year where the co-pay was capped, but there wasn't the 20% liability, the payment structure was
still as it existed before and so that's one of the things that changes within 2025. But I think that
very importantly, we've had this as an opportunity to help our reimbursement teams and our
account managers engage with US customers to understand how they can work together to
create education around the new opportunities to be able to think about where charitable
programs need to be used, where they might not need to be used and to be able to have an
understanding for how the benefit design has changed.
And I think that as there's education around that, that that's one of the things that's resulting in
patients being able to be on medicines that are not through charitable foundations and then the
charitable foundations are able to have more money available to them because of the co-pay
caps to be able to serve more patients. So it has really been, I think, in many respects, a real
improvement in terms of affordability resulting in higher volume on the medicines and I do expect
that we'll see that continue into this year, probably not to the same degree of the bump that we
saw when we went from uncapped to 33 and now 33 to 2,000.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Dave. Can we move to another table?
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `Dave (Multiple Speakers) metnioned the secondary effect if they're -- you're seeing in the
commercial.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Oncology Business Unit `
No, we're not seeing secondary effects into the commercial segment.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Sachin, we move to this table and we'll get finished with the table and move there.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Securities `
`Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Securities from Bank of America. Given us a pipeline here, I'd thought to do two pipeline
questions on the two assets you called out, on the slide. So the first one, I guess, is for Ruud on
Bax. Of the greater than 5 billion peak, how much is in the resistant hypertension opportunity
we're getting this year? And I wonder if you could just give us some feedback.
If you deliver the data as per Phase II, what's your physician feedback on adoption of this therapy
in a heavily genericized market? The third, fourth line agent is the commonest pushback I get.
And then the second question is on the SERD. I think investors are generally very confident in
SERENA-6 because of the mutant population, but there's been lower confidence in frontline,
lower mutation incidents. So wondered if you could just touch on the hypotheses that make you
confident. You touched on biology, but some of the other stuff we hear from physicians
potentially delaying ESR1 mutations, endocrine sensitivity, or combination therapies. Just
wondering if you could touch on other hypotheses that make you confident. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Sachin. It's nice to move to growth opportunities away from headwinds. So Rudd, then
Susan, maybe?
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice-President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Yeah. Let me take the first one. So the baxdrostat is the combination of the mono component as
well as the combination of, of baxdrostat and Farxiga or dapagliflozin. So that's one. As you can
imagine, this will be a crucial year for baxdrostat and we are doing an enormous amount of
market research, and it is clear that the high unmet medical need is very clearly resonating with
cardiologists and physicians in internal medicine. I think the big challenge is going to be the GPs
because a lot of those patients are undiagnosed or are not well treated in the first line and so
we're working very hard in order to find a way in order to educate the first line moving forward,
as well. But there is no doubt that this new class of medicine, this new way of treating, resistant
and uncontrolled hypertension is resonating very well with the specialty care group of physicians.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Before we move to SERD, let me just add that, you know, the -- if you look at kidney disease,
which is a total epidemic in the world, 800 million people have kidney disease today and it's
growing. 40% of those patients have kidney disease from hypertension, 40% from diabetes and
the rest is few other reasons, but 40% of these patients.
Now if they develop kidney disease is because they have hypertension that is not properly
treated and their blood pressure is not controlled. And so we believe that an agent that helps
bring those patients to blood pressure control and also potentially affects aldosterone because I-- we believe that the effects of aldosterone negative, deleterious effect of aldosterone on the
kidney, the heart are totally underestimated. So if you affect aldosterone and you control blood
sugar, it should really have a very positive effect on kidney disease in particular.
So Susan, do you want to cover the SERD.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice-President, Oncology R&D `
Thanks for the question. So, again, the data that has been seen for the current SERDs have been
in later line trials to date, where the proportion of patients that are truly endocrine sensitive is
lower. And I think that's why you've seen the benefit concentrated in the ESR1 mutants. Just as a
reminder, and as I said, we saw activity in the overall population with a hazard ratio of 0.58 versus
fulvestrant, which is the currently available SERD. But we know that fulvestrant doesn't maximally
degrade the estrogen receptor.
As a reminder, when you go into the first line in SERENA-4, the comparator is with an aromatase
inhibitor that doesn't degrade the receptor at all. And that's why we think you're gonna have
activity in the ESR wild type. And again that builds on that hazard ratio of 0.58 overall. It wasn't just
in the ESR1 mutants that we saw activity. And then we've enriched the patient population in
SERENA-4 for patients that are likely to be more endocrine sensitive.
So, you know, in addition to them being first line, which obviously enriches for endocrine
sensitivity, they had to have adjuvant endocrine therapy of more than two years without
progression. So again, you know, those patients that progress rapidly are the less endocrine
sensitive. You had to have a treatment free interval of more than 12 months since completion of
adjuvant therapy without progression, unless they've had tamoxifen. And I think those features
that we've enriched for, you know, were carefully chosen in order to maximize the probability of
technical success for SERENA-4 as well as for SERENA-6.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Securities `
Sorry. The BAX peak cell split mono versus combo, just to get an idea of how you think about the
mono opportunity this year?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Pardon. So sorry, Sachin.
Q - `Sachin Jain, Analyst, Bank of America Securities `
The greater 5 billion, do you have a split of that mono versus combo? The study this year is
obviously the mono?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. But we haven't disclosed that, Sachin. So and this is a relatively highly competitive field with
two competitors. So we have said that this substantial on both sides, but we haven't given the
split.
Q - `Mattias Haggblom, Analyst, Handelsbanken AB `
`Mattias Haggblom, Analyst, Handelsbanken AB, Handelsbanken. So two questions for Sharon, please. So first on the ongoing
Phase II investigating use of the oral GLP-1. So I'm curious to hear how confident your the 26 weekduration of therapy for the primary endpoint is enough to meet the recently revised FDA
guidelines? And if you can talk about enrollment pace in those studies?
And then secondly, for the oral PCSK9 with Phase IIb data and our confirmed HCC [ph] in March,
help me frame expectations of LDL reductions once the abstract from HCC is out and perhaps
talk about timelines to a Phase III start and perhaps remind me how you win over Merck's oral
peptide that has Phase III trials leading out later this year. Thanks so much.
A - `Sharon Barr, Executive Vice-President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
Sure. I love those questions, so thank you. Your first one was about AZD5004. That's our oral
GLP-1. We've been very public about the progress of that. We released the data at Obesity week
in November of last year. This is a true small molecule. We are envisioning this as a molecule that
we are developing both as a monotherapy and in combination with other small molecules already
in our portfolio.
I mentioned that because we are moving beyond short term weight loss targets and really
thinking about the interconnectedness of cardiovascular, renal, and metabolic disease. So the first
step is our two Phase IIb studies. One for patients with obesity or who are overweight and one
for patients with type-2 diabetes. Those are the VISTA and APACUS [ph] studies. Both are
enrolling well, and we are on track for the timelines that we previously mentioned. So I -- I'll move
on then and speak about our oral PCSK9, which was your second question. This is AZD0780. So
we have completed the Phase I data and we released those last year. And in those data, we
showed that we were able to reduce LDL at 50% on top of statins, 78% from baseline. We have
just completed the Phase IIb study, PURSUIT. It we will be releasing those data next month, so
hold your breath. But I would expect to share a story that is broadly in line with our Phase I data.
How do we differentiate this molecule from other PCSK9s? Well unlike some of them, it's orally
bioavailable. Unlike the other orally bioavailable molecule, it is a true small molecule. It doesn't
require a permeability enhancer, and it doesn't require fasting. There is no food effect associated
with this. So it is well suited to use as a monotherapy but also potentially in combination with
other molecules in our portfolio because it is a small molecule, such as the one that I just
mentioned, AZD5004, again addressing the interconnectedness of cardiovascular, renal, and
metabolic disease. So it has a favorable PK profile. It sets us up well for success and it lines up in a
portfolio of small molecules that really allows us to address interrelated disease.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Sharon. Maybe Mattias, I mean, differentiation is one thing but the -- I think the most
important part is to create this market for PCSK (Technical Difficulty). And two companies doing
this is far better than only one. If you think of PCSK9, they're fantastic drugs. Problem is they're
injectable and expensive.
So in the US, you can sort of get them, but in Europe, in most countries, you have to have an
event to be able to get a PCSK9 reimbursed and the steps are complicated. You have to have a
recommendation from a cardiologist. Often, you have to get approval from the payer before you
can get it. If you move to an oral agent that is easy to take and then priced at the appropriate
level, you can definitely expand the access to these very important medicines. And then you can
go into the emerging markets where also the needs are enormous.
So I think really expanding this PCSK9 market is gonna be a very fundamental priority for our
commercial organization.Q - `Richard Parkes, Analyst, BNP Paribas Exane `
Yeah. `Richard Parkes, Analyst, BNP Paribas Exane from BNP Paribas Exane. I've got one for Susan and one for Ruud. Firstly, for
Susan. You're obviously making a push into next generation PD-1 bispecific, you don't, as far as
I'm aware have a VEGF in development currently, but you do have a TIGIT where I think
confidence in that target has been damaged by recent data. So, in terms of VEGF, is that
something you would address through partnerships and do combination studies with Dato-DXd,
or would you develop something internally? And can you talk about your confidence on TIGIT still,
and the bispecific?
Then the second one is for Ruud. You specifically talked about continued growth in the Asthma
Biologics franchise, but you do have GSK coming with a six monthly depemokimab in the relatively
near future. So can you talk about that competitive threat and how you manage to -- how you
plan to manage that?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice-President, Oncology R&D `
Okay. So again we presented data from the ARTEMIDE-01 study at the World Congress on lung
cancer for rilvegostomig in non-small cell lung cancer. And again, we focused the developments
of this asset on the higher end of the PD-L1 expressing agent, which is the area where I think the
data are most encouraging for the TIGIT mechanism. If you just come back to those data, so if
you look at the PD-L1 greater than 50%, actually we had a 62% response rate in that population
and a median PFS of more than 10 months, which is actually with all the caveats of cross trial
comparisons and small sample sizes, as a health warning, that's in the same range as the other
bispecifics including the ivonescimab data. What we also have is in the 1% to 49% [ph] patient
population, again, encouraging data with that asset compared to what you'd expect with a PD-1
agent alone.
And importantly, because it's an FC [ph] silent molecule, it's good combinability with
chemotherapy with good safety and low discontinuation rate, which I think may have contributed
to some of the failures with combination data that we've seen with other molecules. We do have
some Phase II trials ongoing for combinations with VEGF targeted combinations for example in
our HCC and gastric studies as well. The good news is that we've got good safety for
combination of rilvegostomig with that agent. And I think where the VEGF mechanism has also
shown on its own that there's activity, that is the place where you're probably most likely to see
the interaction between both an IO and a VEGF mechanism. So I think there's opportunity for us
to build on the backbone of rilvegostomig with some combinations with VEGF directed agents.
That's something that we're obviously, we'll be looking at as well beyond the HCC and the gastric
studies that we've already got ongoing.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Susan. Rudd?
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice-President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Sure. I take the second one. So, first of all, I think the market opportunity in itself is still very, very
substantial. The biopenetration of biologics in the asthma segment on average is only 20%. So
clearly, there's a substantial room for further improvement there. Secondly, based on our own
Fasenra, which is a two month injection, we know that, yes, it is important from a convenience
perspective but the end game is always efficacy.It's very important that physicians, but certainly patients feel that efficacy is the most important
piece. And the reason that Fasenra has performed so well in the severe uncontrolled asthma
segment is that the efficacy is very high and the level of satisfaction is very high. So in that sense,
competition is not bad but I think the bar in order to move Fasenra away from the market
leadership we currently are having in the NTR 5 [ph], I think is very high.
Equally, of course, we have an unprecedented possibility in China. We will get Fasenra hopefully
later this year in NRDL. We're clearly the market leader in China from a respiratory perspective. So
in that sense, we're very bullish regarding the outlook of Fasenra moving forward despite
potential more competition.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Ruud. Let's move to Steve Scala [ph] online. Steve, over to you. Can you hear us?
Q - Unidentified Participant
Yes. Thank you so much. Two questions. First, regarding Tagrisso, is your confidence in the
outlook predicated on growth in adjuvant or do you think Tagrisso will remain dominant in first line
or perhaps both? And has the first line outlook been influenced by the Mariposa OS data? So
that's the first question.
Second question is the fact that this duty has been assessed against AstraZeneca in China
suggesting corporate Astra has been implicated in the investigation. Previously, Astra was not
part of the investigation. So if it's now part of it, what are the implications of that? Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Dave?
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Oncology Business Unit `
So Steve, thanks for the question. On the first part of your Tagrisso question, we saw in 2024
very nice growth in ADAURA, LAURA where we've launched it, but also a really strong launch to
FLAURA-2. And I'll note that FLAURA-2, we've launched now in 65 markets across the globe. So
we've had an opportunity to really get out and be able to tell the Tagrisso backbone story and
then also the opportunity to be able to do some combination in FLAURA-2. As we look at the
impact that Mariposa is having, certainly, the overall survival that has been shared as high level
results is something that you know, anything at a year of overall survival I think is catching
attention of the community.
With that said, based on the data that the community saw at ELCC in 2024 for FLAURA-2, where
we saw really, you know, very, very competitive FLAURA-2 landmark survival rates of 80% at 24
months, 64% at 36 months. I think that there's a general expectation that FLAURA-2 is also
moving in absolutely the right direction in this regard. And the utilization that we're hearing is for
Mariposa is a lot in second line and actually quite a lot of trial, but not repeat use. And the only
last thing that I just say, let me take this opportunity. In my prepared remarks, I had mentioned
that the market share was 85% in the US, and I should have said that that was in Japan.
So that was something that I had said. The global frontline eGFR market share is 75%. That's
inclusive of the US, and in Japan, it's higher at 85%. So that's just something I wanted to correct.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `And thanks, David. The second question, Steve is relatively straightforward. The -- as I said
before, the -- a notice has been sent to the prosecutor's office if AstraZeneca is found liable. The
Chinese -- Chinese law is very, very clear. The implication is very clear, which is the company has
to repay the import duties, so $0.9 million, $900,000 to be repaid, plus a fine that is one to five
times the amount of import duties. So it could be 0.9 plus 0.9 or it could be 0.9 plus $4.5 million.
That's the implication, and it's very, very clearly defined by Chinese law.
Andy, you will tell me when we have to run out. We have to stop because I know some of you
have to go to another meetings.
Q - `Emily Field, Analyst, Barclays `
Hi. `Emily Field, Analyst, Barclays from Barclays. Two on oncology. Firstly, on Datroway, you know, a great label from a
safety perspective with no box warning relative to the other TROP2 ADC. Do you expect that to
hold for a potential approval in non small cell lung cancer? And then, another question on the
SERD.
We will be seeing the All Comers results from the competitor, Giredestrant, this year. I was just
wondering if you could help us understand why some of the molecular advantages of
Camizestrant over the competitor molecule. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Susan?
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice-President, Oncology R&D `
Yeah. Sure. So, obviously, we're still in discussions with regulatory authorities about the filing for
Datroway in the EGFR mutant lung cancer setting. But we did publish the safety data that's the
basis of that filing earlier. So you can look at the adverse event profile that is there.
And I think within the EGFR mutant population that's in line with the current label that you've got in
the breast cancer setting. So, we obviously have to wait for the final label assuming that the rest
of the filing goes well. In terms of the Camizestrant molecule, I think, we've got a very good
potency. We've got very good linear pk. We've got very good drug drug clean profile with all of
the combination partners that we're looking to combine with including all of the CDK4/6s.
You know, the safety profile that we're seeing with Camizestrant leads to an extremely low
discontinuation rate. Very low rates of these GI side effects which I think is important particularly
when you go into the earlier lines of therapy. People want to stay on drug for a long period of
time. So I think the overall profile that we have with this drug is really looking best in class from my
perspective. Obviously, we've got to have the trial readouts first and then we can happily discuss
the actual profile that we've seen in the Phase III trials. But at this point, we're confident.
Q - `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn Atlantic `
Thank you. `Simon Baker, Analyst, Redburn Atlantic from Redburn Atlantic. Two quick ones, if I may. Just going back to
rilvegostomig. Susan, could you give us your updated thoughts, and you did touch on this, on the
scope, as TIGIT -- for TIGIT as a target beyond non small cell lung cancer based on what you now
know?
And then one for Iskra, emerging markets. The growth ex-China look very good. I wonder if you
could give us some highlights of sort of country by country where you are seeing that growth.Thanks so much.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice-President, Oncology R&D `
Okay. Thank you. For -- so for rilvegostomig, obviously, we've in addition to the lung cancer
indications with TROPION-Lung10 in combination with Datroway and the ARTEMIDE-Lung02 and
ARTEMIDE-Lung03 trials in combination with chemotherapy. We've got the ARTEMIDE-Biliary01
study, which builds on the TOPAZ data that we had with Durvalumab in biliary tract cancer, but
takes it into the adjuvant therapy. That's I think I would say that the investigators are very
enthusiastic about.
And then the next piece in terms of the expansion is clearly, you know, building on the
combinations that we've already got with Datroway. There's also good combination capability
with within HER2 and then with the other ADCs that that we've got coming through the portfolio. I
think there'll be significant opportunity. We are focused on those patient populations where TIGIT,
you know, is likely to be more beneficial. But that has been seen in indications also like gastric
cancer, for example, and in HCC cancer, where you would expect activity from the TIGIT
mechanism of action beyond what you see with PD-1.
A - `Iskra Reic, Executive Vice-President, International `
So if you look at the emerging outside of China, as you mentioned, I mean, growth is quite
impressive. It's another strong yield of growth of 32%. And the emerging markets, if you exclude
China, actually represents up to 13% of the global revenues. And we are very confident and
positive in the further growth in the emerging market and therefore the answer to your question
is very difficult because we actually see the super strong double digit growth across Latin
America, Asia, Middle East, and Africa areas and we do see the good reasons and the good --
many growth drivers to see that continue. And you -- I think one important point is that across the
emerging markets, we are actually launching our brands a bit later than when comparing with US
and Europe.
So if you think about that, I mean, the products are like Breast 3 [ph] or like HER2 are still to get
the full maximum and full leverage across the international region. So despite the headwinds that
we will always see, as Pascal mentioned, a bit of the pricing or the exchange rate, I do believe
that underlying growth across all areas in emerging markets is to be continued across all therapy
areas as well.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
I mean, I think it's important to just to add to this, it's important to remember how the population
is there. The global population lives outside the US and Europe. I mean, most of the population.
And many of these countries are becoming richer. Their economies are developing. More funds
can be allocated to healthcare.
And we have the portfolio of products that address most of the pricing needs, medical needs in
many of those countries. The other thing we've done is we've accelerated the approval of new
products. In the past, these countries were sort of priority three, of course, US, Europe first, and
we had a long delay between the launch in Europe or US and the launch in those countries. We've
accelerated this. So team has done an amazing job and so we're bringing those medicines to all
these countries much faster than before.
So there's really good reasons to believe that we will continue to grow. And in many, not all, but
many of these countries, we don't experience the impact of patent expiries like we have in theUS or Europe because those products are sort of sold on as a brand. Lower price but less
exposure to patent expiries, and you just compete with generics as opposed to losing it all when
you lose patent protection.
Q - `Eric Le Berrigaud, Analyst, Stifel `
Yes. `Eric Le Berrigaud, Analyst, Stifel, Stifel. Two questions. First, we do appreciate that your top priorities on top
line growth both short and longer term. But my question is on margin development. We were
probably expecting margin to end at around 32% in '24 and ended just above 31%. So your
reiterated commitment to reach mid-30s by '26, which leaves a gap by around 400 basis point
over the next couple of years. Given the current guidance for '25, it looks like the leverage will be
quite minimal this year, so it leaves a lot into '26. So how should we think about this
development? Are we right in assuming that mid-30s means 35?
Or could that be a broader range? And would you be comfortable reaching 34%? Or just to give
kind of sense also for consensus adjustment? And the second question is on AIRSUPRA. If I
remember correctly, it was supposed to be a multi blockbuster in the end, and you were
probably more bullish than consensus.
And the start is relatively soft and we haven't seen much of an improvement in even the fourth
quarter. So there was a lot of developments around free sampling and probably formulary
access. Is it getting better moving into '25 and should we expect a significant improvement on
the product in '25?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Aradhana and then maybe Ruud?
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. So we do expect to see operating margin expansion this year. So if you look at our guide for
revenue and EPS and you can extrapolate sort of what the operating margin could be. So there is
clearly an expansion between '24 and '25. I also mentioned in my prepared remarks the impact
that FX has. And again that was not obviously the case in '24, but when you look at where the
currencies have moved particularly in the last two, three months, that does have an impact of, as I
mentioned, 20 basis points in on our margins for this year and 50 basis points if you compare it
to the first quarter 2024 rates.
Other than that, I would say, me and all the entire executive team is very much committed to
achieving that mid-30s operating profit. So mid-30s is, you know, 34 to 36, which is always what
we have signaled. And we have a number of initiatives whether it's optimizing our commercial
footprint, seeing where we do work. So you've probably seen the hubs we've opened in
Mississauga and Barcelona and Bangalore and other places, again taking advantage of work
we're doing. We're also doing a lot of process improvements whether it's in regulatory filings and
so forth.
So there are a whole bunch of different initiatives that are happening across the company on
driving productivity while still supporting, obviously, a very large and growing portfolio.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Aradhana [ph]. Ruud about AIRSUPRA?
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice-President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `Yeah. Quickly. First of all, I'm still very excited about AIRSUPRA. First of all, we see an enormous
volume over 300,000 scripts in one year but equally and that's also the challenge in the spirit of
transparency. One of out of two scripts are not fulfilled at the pharmacy level because still of
access issues.
This is a very highly generous sized market, and clearly, it's much more difficult than we expected
in order to get traction because Albuterol Ventolin has a very, very low price. And we don't want
to compromise at this stage of the game too much our price. We want to sell it based on the
clinical features of AIRSUPRA. The other big piece of excitement is that we have published where
this is the high level results of the BATURA data, which further expand the potential of using
AIRSUPRA in the mouth asthma segments. And last but not least, more than 65,000 physicians in
the United States have already prescribed AIRSUPRA. So it's all about access. We're making good
progress. For the 1st of January, we have now roughly a coverage of 60% of commercial lives. We
have secured one very large Part D access. So it will take some time.
The good news is of inhaled therapies, the detail is very long. You see it yourself as the
performance of Symbicort. So we are very committed in order to capture this opportunity moving
forward and we are working very hard on the access situation.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
We -- I mean, you know that when you launch a new product, access is always something that
takes time even more so here because of the reason Ruud described, but we're making good
progress. And the important piece, I think, is BATURA that, the study that Ruud mentioned
because fundamentally you got to convince managed care of the economic value of reimbursing
these products when they have of course generic albuterol that they can offer patients. And
BATURA data will suddenly be a very important tool in convincing them of the cost effectiveness
of reimbursing AIRSUPRA.
The clinical data are very, very striking.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thanks, Pascal. It's Justin from Bernstein. I've got one for Marc on efzimfotase. Just if you wanted
to share any thoughts on the cost of goods versus Strensiq. And the second one for Aradhana,
just if you could possibly give any kind of color on CapEx after 2025?
A - `Marc Dunoyer, Chief Executive Officer, Alexion and Chief Strategy Officer, AstraZeneca `
So in short, the cost of good is first and foremost [ph] efzimfotase is way under that of Strensiq.
And our ambition is to be able to reach out to six times the number of patients as we do for
Strensiq, not only for cost of good reason but also because we are also going to address the
adult population and a much wider regional expansion. So the cost of good is only one factor in
this. The development, the clinical development plan in both pediatric and adult is important and
the regional expansion where today, Strensiq is still relatively limited to a certain number of
countries and we are expanding year after year but with efzimfotase alfa this expansion will be
much easier and much wider.
A - `Aradhana Sarin, Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. As it relates to CapEx, I think a good way to think about sort of from a forward standpoint
would be that these are all multiyear projects. So some of them we started last year or the year
before. So like the API facility, the cell therapy, we started last year. The ADC, we will start thisyear. Qingdao [ph] has started last year. So you should expect that these go for at least four or
five years, the same with the ERP project. And so this would be a good level for the next several
years.
Again, if there are new projects started, for example, if we have great success with the GLP-1 or
something, then we'd announce those separately. But this, this is a good way to think that these
are multiyear projects.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. It was good you asked a question about efzimfotase because I think this product is
underestimated. Potential we said is quite substantial. There's no competition, profitability will be
good. The unmet need is important and large. So we believe it is going to be a very important
product not only for Alexion but for AstraZeneca. Should I take maybe the last question online,
Andy and then close so we -- sorry? There's two more in the room. Sorry, I missed that.
Q - `Rajan Sharma, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Hi. It's `Rajan Sharma, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs. First question, just to follow-up on the oral PCSK9,
actually. Do you think that you need a cardiovascular outcomes trial or a positive one to get
meaningful uptake? And what would be kind of your thoughts around initiating that trial,
particularly thinking that you might need one for the oral GLP-1 as well?
And then the second question was just on Avanzar and potential filing strategy there. Assuming
that it's positive on PFS, do you think that will be enough for a conditional approval?
A - `Sharon Barr, Executive Vice-President, BioPharmaceuticals R&D `
Sure. So I'll jump in and answer the question on the oral PCSK9. I appreciate the question.
Recognize that we are just now completing Phase II and planning for our pivotal study. We're not
gonna comment today on what our plans are for outcomes trials.
We have been public about our expectation for the need for outcomes trials in oral GLP-1, and --
and it's a little early to comment on what we plan to do for AZD0780. But thanks for the question.
A - `Susan Galbraith, Executive Vice-President, Oncology R&D `
And in terms of PFS as an endpoint in first line non small cell lung cancer, there have been
approvals with full approvals based on PFS. In general, the regulatory agencies are gonna want to
see a positive trend in OS and reasonable maturity of the of the endpoints. So those are just
things to consider.
Q - `Rajan Sharma, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
One question. Appreciate you've got a 2030 target of $80 billion in revenue, and that's more of
an organic number. If we look at your balance sheet, you will start generating more capacity to
redeploy capital. What are your therapeutic area capital allocation (Technical Difficulty) I mean,
appreciate oncology have been very attractive for you. And when we started TIGIT suddenly was
very interesting, and people are now asking if VEGF is more interesting. So are there therapy
area where you think, it's getting a bit more difficult to find incremental opportunities or you're
still excited about equal amount of capital in all therapy areas?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `Yeah. It's a great question. The exciting part of our industry at this point is it's also the scary part, I
must say is that, I mean, the innovation is incredible and the speed of replacement of technology
is incredible. And that's why I believe I continue to believe that being focused on a few key
therapy areas and building competence, building expertise is fundamental because you actually
understand much better what are the promising new technologies or products that are emerging
and how you develop them, how you commercialize them and you have an end to end
understanding of a specific therapy area. So our approach is really to continue to focus on
oncology, respiratory disease, cardiovascular disease.
Immunology, we want to address it through a few products we are working on but also cell
therapy, we believe could be a very important angle to treat some of these immune diseases
and, of course, finally, rare diseases. But we will continue to stay focused on this and build access
to new technologies. We've talked about ADC, T cell engagers, cell therapy, bispecifics,
radiopharmaceuticals. There's a whole range of technologies that have emerged in the last few
years. And actually there's reason to believe it will continue to happen. And it's actually fantastic,
fantastic for patients, for medicine, fantastic for us to participate in this, bring those medicines to
patients.
The reason I was saying it's scary is that it actually keeps us all on our toes, really. We have to
make sure we actually scan the horizon constantly, and we don't get caught with something that
is coming from left field that actually replaces our products. I mean, you see it yourself. I mean,
products coming out of the woodwork and really transforming the treatment of an indication. So
maybe I'll take the online one and then we'll let you go.
Gonzalo, Danske Bank, do you want to go ahead.
Q - `Gonzalo Artiach, Analyst, Danske Bank `
Yes. Can you hear me guys?
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Go ahead.
Q - `Gonzalo Artiach, Analyst, Danske Bank `
Okay. Great. Yes, thank you for taking my questions. Gonzalo Artiac from Danske Bank. Two
questions. One Datroway. And what type of launch do you expect in the TROPION-Breast01
setting? Did you see a broad potential in that population? I'm asking this because now DESTINY-
Breast06 for HER2 will come one line earlier.
I was wondering how fair is to assume some patients will go through ADC sequencing, so HER2
followed by Dato? And the second question on baxdrostat, not in hypertension, but in primary
aldosteronism. How big do you think this opportunity is for the drug? I mean, there is a potentially
Phase II coming soon. So I was wondering what type of patients would benefit from baxdrostat in
that indication. Thank you.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
So Dave.
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Oncology Business Unit `
Yes.A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Did you get it? Yeah, okay, good. Because the line is not very, very good. But do you...
A - `David Fredrickson, Executive Vice-President, Oncology Business Unit `
Gonzalo, I'm pretty sure that you're asking basically a TB-01 market size and market opportunity
question. So if that's not the question you're asking, I'm going to answer that anyway. The -- so as
we take a look at this, I mean, I think that what we're certainly seeing here is that the size of the
market, G7, about 35,000 fourth line plus hormone receptor positive HER2 negative patients,
right? So that's the patient population that we're talking about here that's addressable. And so
it's after ET, after chemotherapy.
And I think TB-01, really complements DB-O4, which is transforming the HER2 landscape. Right?
So, the first part of this is that now with TB-01 at the lowest IHC scores, you've got an option to
be able to treat with TB-01. But then as DB-06 starts to expand into the earlier treatment
segment, there's a portion of the population also that in later lines will have seen an ET and a
chemotherapy in the form of an ADC that could also be considered for utilization here. So I think
that you've got an opportunity particularly in the null space and then also potentially in the HER2
low space, but HER2 low more likely being kind of after they've seen an ADC upfront.
And I just would lastly say all of this is part of a strategy in breast cancer to really make sure that
there's an option for all patients presenting. Right? Camizestrant to replace backbone ET,
TRUQAP to continue to have an opportunity in patients who can benefit from ER drive, multiple
ADCs to replace chemotherapies within the space, and it's a comprehensive breast program that
we've put together.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, David. Rudd?
A - `Ruud Dobber, Executive Vice-President, BioPharmaceuticals Business Unit `
Yeah. Let me take the second one. So this is a very difficult area in that sense that it's highly
underdiagnosed. The expectation is that 5% to 8% of patients suffering from hypertension have
this disease. The reason we are so excited about it is that physicians came proactively to us in
order to do a study in this patient population because there's an incredible high unmet medical
needs.
So as a -- once again as a ball ballpark figure, 5% to 8% of the antihypertensive -- of the
hypertensive patients are suffering from this disease.
A - `Pascal Soriot, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. So let me thank you all for your great questions and your interest in our company and
wish you a good rest of the day. Thank you very much.